respect for competition rules is the basis for fair competition in the global market. it is easy to be better and it is easy to make more profit if you do not respect the rules of the game, if you avoid paying taxes and if you receive illegal aid from the state. everything that benefits these companies is bad for us, the consumers. so we usually pay a higher price and get a worse service. the distortion of this market through cartels costs the european union at least 3% of gdp each year, and tax evasion and fraud cost billions. the digital market has been a particular challenge in recent times. this will also require adjustments to the competition rules. i think it is very important, as the commissioner has said, that we have independent institutions at national level too, and i therefore welcome the debate you are opening. and, of course, in closing, i would like to thank my colleague langen for his excellent report.
the package of measures before us is, of course, the continuation of the multiannual framework for the fight to conserve the bluefin tuna stock, and it must of course be said that it is crucial that the legal rules also be aligned with the international obligations which the european union has under a number of agreements, and above all, of course, to protect european fishermen, so to speak. but we must be careful, because what happens often, and has happened in this sector, is that there are large fishermen's monopolies, and the small and medium-sized fishermen are the most affected, and they are being excluded from this traditional, and i would say most ecological, fishing method. i think that each member state has the right to allocate quotas among fishermen, but the most important thing is to report and monitor that we do not go back to waters where the fish are at risk of disappearing by increasing quotas.
intercultural and interfaith dialogue are important at a time when europe is facing numerous challenges related to immigration, religious and intercultural conflicts and the rise of radicalism. as i already stressed when i adopted the report on the prevention of radicalisation, education has a crucial role to play in tackling this challenge. however, i would like to stress that the acceptance of different cultures and practices must not come at the expense of the fundamental values of the european union, such as respect for human rights, dignity, freedom, democracy, equality between women and men and the rule of law, as enshrined in article 2 of the treaty on european union. tolerance for specific cultural orientations cannot take precedence over respect for universal basic values. i'm not satisfied with the report as a whole, but i will support it tomorrow, partly because it emphasizes the importance of the family in the whole process and the importance of educating disadvantaged children. i also think it is important to have a sense of responsibility for behaviour that is not in line with the fundamental values of the environment in which we live. (the speaker agreed to accept the question raised by the blue card (rule 162 (8)).
answer to the question posed by raising the blue card. i think this is the key issue, namely the financial support for all these wishes and projects that we have written down, among other things, in this last report. the financial budget for the current financial period will have to be revised. without additional resources, europe will not be able to cope with the challenges posed by new and new waves of migration.
multicultural dialogue is a broad and complex term that is widely used today and basically means communication between people coming from different backgrounds, religious, social, cultural, generational. and also, multicultural dialogue means thinking, reflecting and accepting differences with the aim of cooperation and, consequently, constructive dialogue. it's sort of the great individual and social challenge of our time, and right now, of course, we're in these moments where we need to pay particular attention to it. this migration cycle will continue, it is a long-term process, and so i agree with my colleagues who said that we need to spend much more on education, on raising awareness and understanding the importance of multicultural dialogue.
so the financial crisis is not completely over, of course, and the negative effects of the crisis are not completely over. the recovery indicators may be encouraging in some cases, more so in others, but we hear that these indicators are not directly reflected, either in the interests of citizens, consumers or investors, including smes. i think that, of course, with what is coming, that is to say also in financial or in changes in the regulation of financial markets and in new legislative frameworks, of course we have to be appropriately cautious, we have to take into account the lessons we learned in the last crisis, because otherwise we will not make a step forward. above all, of course, the key question is who follows whom and to whom these measures will be directed. i think that of course when we talk about capital, when we talk about markets, we must not forget about the human being, the consumer, because at the end of the day, we are here mainly because of them, and that's why i think we have to answer who these policies are going to be aimed at, whether it's the banks or the consumers or the real sector.
in writing. financial sector regulation and the capital markets union is one of the priorities following the financial and debt crisis. i would like to congratulate my colleague mr balz on his excellent report, which includes all the important points that we have yet to discuss. a successful capital markets union, which should not restrict individuals and businesses, should be a priority. it also needs to be possible for everyone to access eu capital markets in a friendly, efficient and cost-effective way. legislation in the area of financial services needs to be made less complex, and we also need to ensure that member states fully and strictly enforce the legislation. we must no longer afford the various slippages that in the long run put the greatest burden on small businesses and consumers. at the same time, i would like to invite the member states which are crucial to the success of the models we are discussing. they are the ones who should ensure that the directives are transposed within the time limits. it is even more important that member states apply the directives consistently.
in writing. gender equality is one of the important principles of a modern democratic society. it allows women and men to participate equally in all areas of public and private life. just as we have been achieving a balanced gender representation in the field of political participation in recent years, we also need a balanced gender representation in the economic field. many studies in this area demonstrate that gender-balanced management boards achieve better results with significantly more integrated decisions, taking into account the wishes and expectations of both female and male populations. i welcome the report which calls on the commission to ensure that the principle of gender equality is fully integrated into all future policies in the field of entrepreneurship.
so this is a question that has been plaguing europe for years before the crisis, during the crisis, and even now. in the last year and a half of this parliament we have spoken many times about the problems of young people in employment, and the facts speak for themselves: there are many young people unemployed throughout europe, the european commission is making efforts with its programmes, it is allocating some funds, but all this is clearly not enough. because, of course, it's not enough to just give resources, but it's necessary to put them into quality, sustainable jobs. unfortunately, too few young people are included in these processes of designing programmes to reduce unemployment and, of course, what my colleagues have already said, unemployment, dependent jobs, in some countries the unemployment rate for young people between 15 and 25 years of age is more than 40, 50, 60%, and this creates uncertainty for young people in starting a family, securing housing and, of course, in certain entrepreneurial initiatives.
in writing. the eu is tackling youth unemployment directly in two ways: with financial assistance and with policies to provide the necessary skills. this parliament has already adopted many financial frameworks to help young people find employment. it is not just the youth guarantee scheme, but many other projects, including those in the field of education and training, that are now coming together under erasmus+, which i follow in my role as ep permanent rapporteur. in addition to financial support, we are also working to modernise and adapt education to improve the employability of young people in the eu. the report by mr plure calls for partnerships between educational institutions and businesses. the report highlights important issues that have been discussed in the ep for many years: the need for education systems to respond better to labour market needs, the importance of science, technology, engineering and mathematics skills, the importance of quality vocational training and the importance of member states' efficient use of european funds. it also mentions helping young people to set up their own businesses. self-employment of young people has a special value.
of course, i have to respond to mr. jakovcic's words. i'm not a fan of border fencing myself, and i've also looked at the kolpe valley and seen the damage that this fence is doing to the local population, and of course the animal population, and what the consequences will be for the future. however, slovenia did not set up these fences out of any particular pleasure, but was forced to do so by the ineffective common european policy to secure the so-called external borders. and of course, i would point out that this will of course be a domino effect, and as we have heard from the future croatian foreign minister, if this can of course continue then in croatia and onwards all the way through the balkans. but i would like to say that where there is no real danger to these migration routes, it is better that there is no fence, at least not temporarily.
i apologize for the earlier part, but i too would like to speak, as did mrs gall-pelcz, about the unacceptability of the violence we have seen in europe in recent times. there is never an excuse for any violence, none of it. i am very disappointed and saddened to read online that some even justify such acts of violence against women and children. in some member states, authorities have introduced specific courses purportedly aimed at educating migrants about european culture. i welcome that, of course, but it will take much more than that, a comprehensive integration. but i think it is important that those who come to our territory receive all the help we can give them, but at the same time we expect them to respect our culture, our customs, and of course we will not tolerate any violence against europeans.
in writing. ‒ in the present case, the request for waiver of the immunity of mr czesław adam siekierski was made on the basis of an alleged infringement of the speed limit in a populated area. it is clear from the circumstances of the case that the alleged infringement and the ensuing criminal proceedings are in no way connected with mr czesław adam siekierski's position as a member of the european parliament. i supported the report on the request for waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr czesław adam siekierski.
in writing. ‒ in the present case, the request for waiver of the immunity of mr czesław adam siekierski was made on the basis of an alleged infringement of the speed limit in a populated area. it is clear from the circumstances of the case that the alleged infringement and the ensuing criminal proceedings are in no way connected with mr czesław adam siekierski's position as a member of the european parliament. i supported the report on the request for waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr czesław adam siekierski.
in writing. ‒ multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean i supported the proposed report because i believe it appropriately transposes into the european legal order the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) and the regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo), which are the original competent authorities for the management of tuna and tuna-like species in the atlantic ocean and adjacent seas. scientific data show that the bluefin tuna stock in the seas under the jurisdiction of iccat and the rfmo is increasing and that restoring the stock and the tacs is the only logical step. the proposed regulation thus ensures the uniform and effective implementation of all measures of the recovery plan adopted by iccat in 2012. the proposal also includes technical measures such as those related to the transfer and rearing activities of live bluefin tuna in cages, including those related to the use of stereoscopic cameras to assess bluefin tuna quantities and releases, catch reporting requirements and the implementation of the iccat regional observer programme.
in writing. ‒ the eu is a party to the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) and the regional fisheries management organisations (rfmo). these two organisations are responsible for the management of tuna and tuna-like species in the atlantic ocean and adjacent seas. iccat is thus competent to adopt recommendations for the conservation of fisheries, which are binding and need to be transposed into eu law. bluefin tuna is the most important species to be regulated by iccat. in 2006, that organisation adopted a multiannual bluefin tuna recovery plan until 2022. the total allowable catch stood at 33000 tonnes before the adoption of the recovery plan and reached a low of 12900 tonnes in 2012. this indicates the extremely positive results of the above-mentioned multiannual plan. the report examines a proposal for a regulation to ensure a uniform and effective implementation of all measures of the recovery plan throughout the eu. the commission proposal contains mainly technical measures, such as measures relating to the transfer and rearing activities of live bluefin tuna in cages, catch reporting requirements and the implementation of the iccat regional observer programme. i believe that the uniform implementation of iccat recommendations throughout the eu is of the utmost importance. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean and repealing the regulation. the multiannual plan, which would end in 2022, sets out the quotas for the allowable catches of bluefin tuna. so far, fishermen have adjusted their catches to the allowable catch, which has also led to a positive shift in the recovery of stocks. i support a further increase in the allowable catch. this is particularly important for those fishermen who fish bluefin tuna in the traditional way with traditional traps, which have a limited impact on marine ecosystems due to low energy consumption and low incidental catch. the quota had to be exhausted, and the fishermen were at risk. i also welcome the rapporteur's clear position that regulations and restrictions must be respected in the same way everywhere.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean and repealing regulation (ec) no 302/2009, as i believe that it leads to a more uniform and effective implementation of all the measures set out in this area throughout the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean and repealing regulation (ec) no 302/2009, as this will allow the european union to fulfil its contractual obligations under the international agreements with the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) and the regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo). the proposal for a regulation will ensure a uniform and effective implementation of all the measures of the bluefin tuna recovery plan throughout the eu, maintain the survival of this species and allow controlled fishing.
in writing. ‒ the single internal market is one of the eu's greatest achievements and the conditions for ensuring free competition in the internal market are therefore crucial to its existence and functioning. one of the conditions is the prohibition of agreements and arrangements between undertakings which impede trade between member states. this can lead to abuse of a dominant position and the work of the european commission in this area is therefore very important, since it monitors acquisitions and mergers of companies in the eu that lead or can lead to a significant concentration in the market and thus to a dominant position in the market. the fundamental objective of union competition rules is to protect competition from distortion, since competition is not an end in itself but a condition for the achievement of a free and dynamic internal market and thus for ensuring the conditions for effective economic growth. the resolution proposed, which i naturally supported, is therefore not merely parliament's response to the commission's findings, but serves as a guide for dealing with current issues and drawing up legislation in this area. the proposal implies that the commission will have to inform member states more frequently about the control of unlawful state aid and strengthen the surveillance of the digital economy. nor can issues of fair competition be separated from issues of tax avoidance, i.e. unfair tax competition, which also leads to distortions of competition.
in writing. ‒ i support the report and i consider of key importance that the european parliament participates from a legislative position in the policy-making process for enhanced eu competition, in view of the needed scrutiny over important topics such as excessive state aid in the banking system or oversight of excessively big or over-dominant market players, in the best possible interest of the citizens and the taxpayers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the annual report on eu competition policy. a well-functioning eu competition policy is essential for the proper functioning of the internal market of the european union. the more competitive we are, the more benefits we have from this to consumers: lower prices and better service. the european union is a market with open competition, and everyone should strive to make the market as competitive as possible, to make it as competitive as possible between firms, to make it as competitive as possible. all of this has a profound effect on the well-being of citizens and on raising living standards. member states must have the appropriate mechanisms in place and provide sufficient financial support to these mechanisms to ensure that in a free market competition exists between undertakings, that they compete fairly with each other, without unfair advantages.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the annual report on eu competition policy as it summarises well the developments in this area over the past years and presents the fundamental challenges for the future. in 2014, the commission and the authority (which, with around 1000 staff, is the most powerful competition enforcement office in europe in the internal market) collected multi-billion euro fines for price-fixing, indicating that there is still a high level of illegal behaviour by entrepreneurs in the eu. effective competition is not an end in itself but a condition for the free and dynamic internal market we are striving for. in the digital age, monitoring this area is an additional challenge and requires the attention of the competent european institutions.
in writing. ‒ the effective implementation of competition policy is essential to ensure a free and dynamic internal market. i supported the annual report on eu competition policy (2015/2140(ini)) because i believe it rightly recognises the current challenges of restrictive practices and points to the european parliament's weak role in the adoption of competition law.
in writing. ‒ in the midst of the greatest crisis europe is currently facing since the second world war, and the simultaneous crisis of values, promoting intercultural dialogue can be one way of resolving crisis situations. because all too often, we hear each other, but we don't hear each other. either we don't want it or we don't want it. too many times for the latter. ethnically closed neighbourhoods, which do not offer young people opportunities for personal, social and existential flourishing, breed various types of crime, including terrorism. this can only be prevented by appropriate intercultural dialogue, education and inclusion. and a sincere commitment to that cause. cultural dialogue should be integrated into all policy areas, such as policies relating to children and young people, education, mobility, employment and social affairs, security and home affairs, and in relation to women's rights and gender equality and regional development. diversity and pluralism must be respected, while recognising that any cultural habits from other backgrounds must not and cannot override the values on which modern europe is built: individual freedom, equality, respect for human rights and the rule of law. this can be achieved only by a willingness to listen and cooperate, not by coercion. i supported the report, of course.
in writing. ‒ the report presented presents opportunities and challenges, as well as concrete recommendations for action at all administrative levels and at eu level. these recommendations include more culture in external action and the eu's development agenda, recognising the unique role that culture can play in maintaining peace, resolving conflicts and preventing crises. the report also reflects concern at the violent and dramatic events that europe has been facing in recent months. it also highlights the fact that sometimes violent extremism can be caused by the cultural, social and economic exclusion of individuals from society. i agree that inclusion, participation and active citizenship need to be promoted. greater cultural pluralism requires active participation in the democratic process at all levels, not only through the participation of citizens in institutional structures, but also through the development of dialogue and the achievement of consensus among groups with different interests, different backgrounds and different backgrounds. i believe it is extremely important to provide resources, particularly financial resources, to give priority to the financing of programmes aimed at promoting intercultural and citizens' dialogue. because of what you've described, i've torn up the report and voted to accept it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the role of intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education in promoting the eu's fundamental values. the european union is a vast and intertwined and complementary cultural area. in today's world, where we face many conflicts both between religions and between cultures, intercultural dialogue is all the more important. a dialogue based on respect, acceptance and individual freedom. but we must respect the legacy of our predecessors and remain true to our convictions: a united europe based on values such as solidarity, peace, democracy, prosperity, freedom and justice.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the role of intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education in promoting the eu's fundamental values, as i believe that cultural dialogue should be truly integrated into all policy areas, especially in light of the recent months, when concerns have emerged about violent and dramatic events in the eu. at national level, however, there is a need to provide structural support to organisations in this educational process. only then will we be able to promote respect for human rights and lay the foundations for a more resilient, inclusive and plural society that can more easily resolve potential conflicts.
in writing. ‒ intercultural and interfaith dialogue are important at a time when europe is facing numerous challenges related to migration, religious and intercultural conflicts and the rise of radicalism. education has a crucial role to play in tackling this challenge. but acceptance of different cultures and practices must not come at the expense of the eu's core values, such as respect for human rights, human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality between women and men and the rule of law, enshrined in article 2 of the eu treaty and the eu charter of fundamental rights. although the report under-emphasises the importance of respect for europe's universal fundamental values, i supported it, partly because it stresses the importance of the family and the education of disadvantaged children.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed report on the evaluation of the situation of the eu financial services market. despite the many measures taken by the eu since the financial and economic crisis began in 2008 to stabilise financial markets in europe, many open questions and initiatives remain in this area. the commission's initiatives on the capital markets union and the investment package, for example, will have to build on the existing financial market regulation. the upgraded regime should also be friendly to smes, key generators of economic growth in the eu, and there is also a need to significantly increase resources for financing real sector projects. this is the only way to ensure continued growth and a reduction in unemployment. lastly, financial market regulation should be strengthened, but without imposing additional costs on the real economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report assessing the state and challenges of eu financial services regulation: impact and next steps towards a more efficient and effective eu framework for financial sector regulation and a capital markets union. the financial crisis left behind a number of negative effects that are still evident in some member states. however, the financial crisis has allowed us to assess and highlight the main shortcomings that have plagued our market: from the lack of adequate regulation of financial services for increasingly complex markets to ensuring that the needs of investors and the financial needs of the real economy are better met. as the consequences of the crisis are still very visible and pronounced, reforms need to be continued. i welcome the report which stresses the need for additional non-bank financing of enterprises and also that a key principle in the establishment of the capital markets union must be a greater focus on the end users of capital markets.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the assessment of the state of play and challenges of the eu financial services regime, as i believe that the legislative initiatives so far contain a first assessment of the state of reform. however, they do not provide a comprehensive assessment and analysis of the effects. the report shall assess, analyse the effects and address the shortcomings that have arisen in the drafting of the legislation in a structured manner. this is the first step towards improving the overall process and making the division of control responsibilities between the eu and member states even clearer in this area.
in writing. ‒ the financial services sector is a key element of the internal market, essential for the proper functioning of the european economy and global competitiveness. the review of the state of play of the extensive financial sector reforms and the identification of shortcomings was necessary to assess the success of the reforms and monitor the growing presence of financial institutions, and i therefore supported the report.
in writing. ‒ despite all the efforts and a slight improvement in the trend, the proportion of women entrepreneurs is still very low. their salaries are also lower, at about 6% of the salaries received by men. the reason for the lower participation of women in entrepreneurship is the difficulty of reconciling work and private life, which is more complex for women than for men. i know many examples of great entrepreneurs who are also dedicated mothers, and many times the latter, the mission of motherhood, gives them even greater motivation in their career goals. the report also highlights the disparities in access to finance for women entrepreneurs, which requires more attention and research to uncover the reasons why this is the case. despite discrimination prohibited by law, there are many cases where women are denied equal access to resources. it is the commission's task, and ours as members of parliament, to draw attention to this and to prepare measures to eliminate such cases. the solution may also be found in social entrepreneurship, which is more popular with women, if i may say so. in the hope of improving the situation, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ statistics show that in 2012, women accounted for 31% of entrepreneurs in the eu (10,3 million) and that only 34,4% of self-employed people in the eu are women. these data indicate a lag in the rate of female entrepreneurship in all member states. this underlies untapped potential for growth and prosperity. women entrepreneurs are known to contribute to creating new development opportunities, reducing social exclusion and strengthening social cohesion. the report calls on the commission and the member states to recognise the value of entrepreneurship for reconciling the professional and private lives of women and men, to remove the obstacles that hinder or even prevent women from becoming entrepreneurs, and to adopt a coordinated framework of measures to support women's participation in the labour market. i agree that we need to change the way we have traditionally assigned gender roles in society, in the workplace, and in the family. it seems to me worth pointing out that the report also calls on the commission and the member states, inter alia, to increase the visibility of financing for entrepreneurial activities by drawing up aid maps for microfinance under the european progress microfinance facility and to explore the possibilities of cooperation with the private sector in investments in the so-called women's sectors. as women's entrepreneurship is essential for employment, economic growth, innovation, development and overall poverty reduction, i voted in favour of the report in plenary.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on the external factors that hinder female entrepreneurship in europe. gender equality is one of the important principles of a modern democratic society. it allows women and men to participate equally in all areas of public and private life. just as we have been achieving a balanced gender representation in the field of political participation in recent years, we also need a balanced gender representation in the economic field. many studies in this area demonstrate that gender-balanced management boards achieve better results with significantly more integrated decisions, taking into account the wishes and expectations of both female and male populations. i welcome the report which calls on the commission to ensure that the principle of gender equality is fully integrated into all future policies in the field of entrepreneurship.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the external factors that hinder female entrepreneurship in europe, as i believe that more concrete policy initiatives need to be given to european entrepreneurship. within this, it is women who are reportedly still less economically independent than men and whose unemployment rate is still higher than men's. the incentives would thus fully exploit the potential of women entrepreneurs in the social sector.
in writing. ‒ women's entrepreneurship attracts women to the labour market and improves their economic and social position. current statistics show that only 31% of women are entrepreneurs. the report identifies obstacles that exclude women from certain occupational fields and limit their entrepreneurial initiatives, such as, inter alia, the reconciliation of private and professional life and discrimination in access to finance and use of funds. it also notes that there is a great potential for female entrepreneurship in social entrepreneurship. i supported the report because i agree that an integrated policy to promote female entrepreneurship is essential to ensure that the principle of gender equality is mainstreamed in all future entrepreneurship policies.
in writing. ‒ europe is returning to growth after the economic crisis, and this is certainly worthwhile. economic indicators show moderate optimism, and unemployment is slowly declining. but unfortunately, too slowly, what we see is particularly youth unemployment, which is still extremely high and worrying. almost five million young people in the eu are still out of work. solutions to reducing youth unemployment will not come overnight, as the causes are multifaceted and complex. one of the reasons for this is the education systems, which in many member states are rather rigid and do not reflect the situation on the labour market. in slovenia, this is certainly the case, as is shown by the problem also highlighted in the report - high youth unemployment on the one hand, and unfilled jobs on the other. i therefore believe that the key to tackling youth unemployment is to reform education systems appropriately and adapt them to a dynamic environment. we need more interdisciplinarity, transfer of entrepreneurial skills, practical experience during schooling, etc. at the same time, there is a need to link educational institutions more quickly with the economic sector, especially in countries with less developed vocational education systems. i strongly agree with the initiatives set out in the proposed report and have therefore supported it.
in writing. ‒ there are 4.5 million unemployed young people aged 14-24 in the eu. more than 7 million young europeans of this age are not in employment, education or training. at the end of 2014, the eu unemployment rate stood at 9,9% and was more than twice as high among young people (21,4%). it is understandable that the financial and global crisis has hit young people particularly hard. the problem of youth unemployment is mainly divided into two key problems. on the one hand, despite higher education and better skills than previous generations, young people continue to face significant structural barriers to finding quality employment. on the other hand, disadvantaged, discriminated and vulnerable people are often denied the opportunity to develop their talents, abilities and skills, as social policies are not sufficiently taken into account. i agree that to solve this problem, education needs to be adequately funded. the report encourages cooperation, participation and partnerships in developing individual skills, disseminating knowledge and creating new jobs, growth and investment. it also stresses the key role of smes and social entrepreneurship in addressing the issue and the importance of equal opportunities for all young people. i believe that the report addresses the issue of youth unemployment appropriately and offers good solutions, which is why i voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a report on skills policies to combat youth unemployment. the financial crisis that engulfed the european union years ago is still having repercussions in some member states. the consequences are most evident in youth unemployment, which is a real concern in some regions. some 5 million young people under 25 were unemployed in the european union last year. that's a huge number. in some member states, more than 25% of young people aged 15-25 are unemployed. i therefore welcome the report which recognises this and notes that the development of individual skills and the dissemination of knowledge and skills are two of the main elements of an integrated employment and social policy and can enable long-term growth, boost european competitiveness, tackle unemployment and create a more inclusive european society.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on skills policies to combat youth unemployment, as the high level of unemployment in the eu, with almost 5 million young people out of work and 2 million jobs unfilled, is still a very worrying and pressing problem. i believe that this proposal is the next step in improving the whole system, allowing young people to complement and develop their skills at all stages of their career and bringing educational institutions and the business sector closer together. only in this way can we reduce the gap that occurs in the market between demand and supply of jobs.
in writing. ‒ young people need to be able to integrate into the labour market. the eu is tackling youth unemployment directly in two ways: with financial assistance and with policies to provide the necessary skills. parliament has already adopted many financial frameworks to help young people find employment. it is not just the youth guarantee scheme, but many other projects, including those in the field of education and training, that are now coming together under erasmus+, which i follow in my role as ep permanent rapporteur. in addition to financial support, we are also working to modernise and adapt education to improve the employability of young people in the eu. i supported the report because it underlines the important issues that the ep has been talking about for years: the need for education systems to respond better to the needs of the labour market, the importance of science, technology, engineering and mathematics skills, the importance of quality vocational training and the importance of member states' efficient use of european funds. it also mentions helping young people to set up their own businesses. self-employment of young people has a special value.
in writing. ‒ the digital single market, which is one of the fundamental pillars of the eu's development in the years ahead, can play a very important role in reducing unemployment in the eu and boosting the growth of the european economy. due to national borders and the lack of harmonisation of legislation in the field of electronic communications, europe is difficult to compete with the us or china, where the development of digital technologies is much faster precisely because of the absence of barriers that exist in europe. this requires the promotion of an entrepreneurial culture, innovative business models and the strengthening of the integration of innovation hubs on the continent. the proposal for a digital single market strategy put forward by the commission months ago aims to regulate better access to digital services and goods for both consumers and businesses, create the right competitive conditions for innovative services and exploit the growth potential of the digital economy. there are many barriers to cross-border online sales that affect consumers and businesses, and harmonisation of the rules is therefore necessary. geo-blocking is also a big problem, where the service is not available to everyone under the same conditions. the commission therefore proposes to amend the services directive and the block exemption regulation in the area of internet sales. we also need to strengthen e-government services, improve access to services and their transparency, and advanced technology and also the promotion of telecommunications development play a major role. i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ the rapidly growing use of the internet and mobile communications has changed the way citizens, businesses and their employees communicate, access information and knowledge, invent, consume, share, collaborate and work. this has enlarged the market, changed the economy and made it easier for smes to access the 500 million potential consumers in the eu and to world markets. it also enabled individuals to develop new entrepreneurial ideas and business models. i agree that all eu policies and legislation in the field of the digital single market should allow for the emergence of new opportunities for users and businesses. they should encourage the creation of new innovative cross-border services at competitive prices, remove barriers between member states and facilitate access to the cross-border market for european businesses. the report identifies the reasons for the need for a digital single market and contains good proposals and actions. as such, i can mention the improvement of legal protection of consumers in the context of digital content, the strengthening of portability and interoperability in the circulation of legally acquired or available content, the removal of unjustified geo-blocking, the protection of data and fundamental rights in cyberspace, the establishment of innovation funds, etc. recognising the importance of the digital single market and the benefits it brings, i voted in favour of the report in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the digital single market act report. in today's world, digital technology has become a part of life. it is present almost everywhere, and we encounter it every day. the internet is becoming more important every day, and it is displacing other media. however, the market still faces many barriers and needs to be adapted to rapid changes in order to achieve a digital single market. both policies and all eu legislation should adapt to this, thus opening up new opportunities for users and businesses, in particular smes and start-ups, to access capital more easily and thus contribute to growth and jobs in the european union, which is still recovering from the last financial and economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the digital single market strategy act on the other hand, as promoting greater use of digital technologies, creating a level playing field and networking legislative frameworks can improve citizens' access to information, increase their employment opportunities and provide them with a wider choice of products. more broadly, it promotes the exploitation of the potential and opportunities offered by digitalisation and, consequently, the competitiveness of the european economy.
in writing. ‒ the european union urgently needs a digital single market, as our digital economy is not developing fast enough to compete with the us, which is light years ahead of europe. we have been talking about a european digital union for years, but the digital world is being completely transformed in five years (the usual time it takes for european legislation to be enacted). i am pleased that the european commission intends to complete all 16 digital single market initiatives by the end of this year. we need to remove the barriers that prevent businesses from exploiting the entire european market and thus offer consumers more choice. this is how the european economy and consumers win. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the digital single market on the digital economy. investments in the infrastructure of the next generation of information and communication technologies and the expansion of existing ones such as 4g and optical networks are also key. the availability of high-speed internet connections at competitive prices is crucial for the development of the digital market. it is essential to remove obstacles to the cross-border development of e-commerce. first of all, there are the costs of cross-border parcel delivery and the different taxation rules. i supported the report because the european economy urgently needs a serious digital single market, on which the performance and competitiveness of the european economy on a global scale will be built. may the next google, facebook, apple, amazon or steve jobs or bezos or gates come from the european union.
the european union has been in crisis for years. we put out one, another one comes in. i am not optimistic about the situation of refugees and migrants after the december summit. we have problems everywhere, with relocation, with returns, with border security, with cooperation with turkey. in december, i called on the leaders of this city to defend schengen, to implement the measures taken. meanwhile, new fences have been erected, new border controls, nationalist rhetoric, intolerance, xenophobia are on the rise. in slovenia, my country, as elsewhere, people are worried, they are worried that european solidarity has failed us. we're worried about what the spring will bring. thousands of new, desperate migrants on the balkan route, who we'll be forced to stop with fences? we need measures that will work. three years ago, my friends, the union was awarded the nobel peace prize. this must remain our fundamental motivation for integration, for peace, for the promotion of democracy and human rights at home and in the world. the fact is that no country can face the challenges of migration, terrorism and the like alone. yes, we must be realistic, pessimism will not lead to results. yes, we must act in unity and not with egotism, with nationalist, even radical rhetoric. but maybe we also need to talk less and make more deals, promise less and do more. gentlemen, we are in a difficult situation. and it is a shame that week after week, even in this institution, we repeat the same things while the values of europe are being destroyed. - i know. political suicide. but who will be responsible? i join the call for an emergency summit and, yes, if there are no common solutions, i fear there will be no union either.
the respected prime minister. when we adopted the mechanism to detect systemic risks to the rule of law in the member states two years ago, many people were not happy about it. i'm sure we did the right thing. this is not just a polish issue, it is much more than that, it is about respect for the rule of law in general, which is a core european value. the application of the new mechanism of the european commission would, in my opinion, be even more justified elsewhere than in poland, including in my own slovenia, to be honest. it is well known that the slovenian judiciary is not functioning well. according to the report of the european court of human rights, slovenia is ranked first in terms of its violations, and in addition, according to eurostat, the judiciary in slovenia enjoys the lowest reputation. this is not surprising, given some facts that indicate political abuse of the work of the courts. for seven years, the two-time prime minister and slovenian opposition leader, janez janša, was dragged through the courts and jailed without any evidence three weeks before the parliamentary elections. it is true that the constitutional court later overturned all the charges and convictions, but the political consequences remain. political abuse is also evident in the fact that last month, in december, the police broke into the premises of the largest opposition party sds and tried to seize a server containing the electronic correspondence of thousands and thousands of members from the last fifteen years. there are many stories like that. that is why the european commission has not yet responded to the problems that we have seen, to the flagrant violations of human rights, which we have pointed out, and which were caused by people who had already violated human rights in the previous system. slovenia therefore needs this kind of assistance on its way to full rule of law, even more so than poland.
nor is it my intention today to criticize poland or the polish people, on the contrary, for the last thirty years poland has been an inspiration to millions of europeans as a story of economic and political success. and today, it is an indispensable member of the union. this did not happen by itself, it was the result of strong and independent institutions and critical media as well. yet, when the fundamental values of society are threatened, it is our duty to raise awareness. the polish government's latest proposals are very worrying. as a former journalist, i am particularly concerned about the new law on the public media, which is a step backwards in ensuring independence. i'm sorry to hear that. i'm surprised, madam prime minister, that you would say otherwise despite the very serious warnings of a number of media organizations. and you will only convince us if the next steps in this fundamental reform of the public media introduce the measures and balances that are necessary to guarantee freedom and pluralism, and not the other way around. i welcome the commission's decision to examine the effects of legislative changes through dialogue, which is essential for any search for solutions. the commission must also not be afraid to take action if the rule of law is under threat, whether in warsaw, budapest, bratislava, slovenia or any other member state of the union.
i welcome the results so far of the peace process in colombia, which is the only way to ensure lasting peace after decades of violence and loss of life. there is no alternative to justice and peace. i am convinced that this will enable a new quality of coexistence in colombia and unlock its rich development potential. i congratulate the political leaders and supporters of the peace process on the successes achieved, and express my particular gratitude to pope francis and to the spiritual leader sri sri ravi shankar for their essential contribution to the decision of the parties to implement the political will through non-violence. let march be a new chapter in the history of colombia and for the good of its people.
do something about europe. that's what my fellow slovenian citizen just tweeted to me. the beginning of your presidency, mr. prime minister, is a crucial, perhaps even a turning point. you will determine where europe goes, and you have taken the presidency in difficult times. you yourself said that we are running out of time, so i expect you to make it very clear to your colleagues immediately that without action there will be no schengen, there will be enormous economic and political damage. i didn't hear you mention the western balkans. for all the difficulties facing the region on its way to the union, stability and already fragile relations are also being seriously damaged by the balkan refugee route, and i therefore call on you to do more to help the region, including at the macedonian-greek border. and when i mention the economic damage. we need jobs, growth. you'll do a lot of good if you stop tax fraud and tax havens, reduce regulation so that small and medium-sized businesses in particular can breathe. i wish you much luck, and above all, very decisive leadership!
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution confirming the council's position on the proposal for the exchange of vehicle registration data in latvia. i believe that the mutual exchange of vehicle information is necessary both for the prevention of crime and the identification of those responsible for it and for ensuring a higher level of safety on european roads. with appropriate punishment for violators, of course.
in writing. ‒ this is a report on the non-disputed consultation procedure in which the council wishes to ask the european parliament whether the exchange of vehicle registration data between latvia and other member states is appropriate. the legal basis for this decision is the provisions on data protection laid down in chapter 6 of decision 2008/615/jha (prüm). the council has prepared an evaluation report on the data protection safeguards in latvia. in doing so, it relied on data obtained from the questionnaire, the verification visit and the test. the council has therefore concluded that latvia complies with all the provisions of the abovementioned legislation. as the process has established the consistency and appropriateness of the exchange of vehicle registration data between latvia and the member states, i voted in favour of the report in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange from vehicle registers in latvia. latvia has successfully completed a data protection test in the past and has completed a questionnaire on the exchange of vehicle registration data in latvia. having also successfully completed the evaluation visit, it has thus fulfilled the conditions to fully implement the general provisions on data protection for the purpose of exchanging vehicle registration data.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange from vehicle registers in latvia, as this will deepen cooperation at international level, especially in the fight against terrorism and cross-border crime, which is urgently needed in the current context of all developments.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange from vehicle registers in latvia, as it will strengthen cross-border cooperation in the fight against terrorism and cross-border crime.
in writing. ‒ the proposed report, which i supported, completes the european legal framework on the rights of defence of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings throughout the european union. the three new directives thus establish an important instrument for ensuring fair trials throughout the eu. the amendments relate mainly to the presence of the accused at trials, the scope of the directive and the protection of suspects and accused persons from hasty guilty pleas. on the latter, i agree with the rapporteur that the presumption of innocence is violated mainly by the media and the press. in the spectacular arrests we often witness in slovenia, for example, or during the trial, all the cameras are pointed at the accused, their lives are turned upside down, they are guilty before they are proven guilty. the last one can last for many years. even if the verdict is acquitted, the individual is marked for life as guilty - thanks to the media. i therefore strongly support the proposed solutions to reinforce the presumption of innocence provided for in those directives.
in writing. ‒ in november 2013, the commission presented a package of measures, the 'final package - procedural rights', containing proposals for three directives. these directives will allow the completion of a european legal framework in the field of the rights of defence of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings throughout the eu. these are key instruments for ensuring a fair trial throughout the eu and for fully respecting the rights of the defence. i consider it extremely important that the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at trial in criminal proceedings are strengthened in this package of measures. the presumption of innocence is a fundamental right and an essential principle to avoid arbitrariness and abuse in criminal proceedings. the principle of presumption of innocence includes the right to remain silent, transfers the burden of proof to the prosecution and includes the principle of 'in dubio pro reo' (in doubt in favour of the accused). the right to be present at one's own trial is a fundamental element of the presumption of innocence, which is currently protected in european law only under the european arrest warrant and the framework decision on the recognition of the execution of criminal judgments in absentia. i agree that it is essential to strengthen the protection provided for by those instruments and to ensure that all suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings benefit from it. because of what you described, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the strengthening of certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and of the right to be present at trial in criminal proceedings. i support the establishment of a minimum level of protection of the principle of presumption of innocence in all member states and the strengthening of the right to be present at trial. it is also necessary to ensure a high overall level of protection for accused persons in criminal matters in a member state without prejudice to higher standards of protection that may be applicable in individual member states. i welcome the fact that the report considers the reverse burden of proof in criminal proceedings unacceptable and that it insists on the principle that the burden of proof of guilt is borne by the prosecution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the strengthening of certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and of the right to be present at trial in criminal proceedings, as i believe that the three directives presented entitled 'final package - procedural rights' will contribute to the completion of the european legal framework on the rights of defence of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings. respect for the rights of the defence and the fairness of the trial will thus be improved throughout the european union.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a directive lays down minimum rules on certain aspects of the presumption of innocence, the principle of legality and the observance of the principle of the primacy of the interests of the parties in criminal proceedings. it points out, inter alia, that the presumption of innocence is infringed when a judicial or other public authority, by a court decision or a public statement, labels a suspect or accused person as if his or her guilt had already been established, without having previously been established in accordance with the law. i support the proposal for a directive as it aims to provide fundamental procedural guarantees in criminal proceedings and to enable the right to a fair trial without prejudice to higher standards of protection that may be applicable in each member state.
in writing. ‒ personal protective equipment is a common item of clothing for many people in europe, whether for work or leisure. the very name 'protective equipment' recalls that the production of such equipment, which protects the individual against certain dangerous influences, must be properly regulated and controlled. such equipment must therefore be properly tested and the type of production and the materials from which these products are made are also important. i therefore support the efforts of the commission and the council to improve the conditions for the use of personal protective equipment contained in the proposed report.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns a proposal for a regulation on personal protective equipment. the basic premise of the proposal for a regulation was that only very effective instruments could ensure the protection of workers in a completely unhindered way. of course, it must be borne in mind that accidents at work are not only caused by the failure to use adequate protective equipment, but also by its incorrect use. i believe that protective equipment will only be effective if it is designed and placed on the market in an appropriate form, taking into account the different users. the report on the proposal for a regulation, among other things, highlights some purely technical aspects of the regulation with a desire to include all risk categories and all possible cases. this is to avoid legal uncertainty or misinterpretation to the greatest extent possible. i agree that we need not only investment policies but also the necessary safeguards to improve the working environment. these include everything from minimum requirements for worker safety to measures to protect workers and to improve the quality of the working environment accordingly. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation on personal protective equipment in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on personal protective equipment. i support the creation of a single market for personal protective equipment, which must have the consumer in mind first and foremost, to whom we must ensure a high level of protection. for each new personal protective equipment that appears on the internal market of the european union, we need to establish the essential requirements and conditions under which it can compete on the european market. i welcome the proposed amendment that appropriate measures should be taken to ensure the safety of people during demonstrations of equipment and field trials. the proposal also provides that field tests should not be designed to test the performance of ppe but to assess other aspects not related to protection such as comfort, ergonomics and design.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on personal protective equipment, as this regulation complements and updates the existing regulation of 1989. the new proposal clarifies the role of economic operators, strengthens cooperation between actors and clarifies the powers of market surveillance authorities. it allows for more accurate tracing and return of dangerous products placed on the single market. stricter controls mean greater safety and additional confidence in the quality of personal protective equipment of final consumers.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal for a regulation as it aims to ensure a high level of protection of public interests such as health and safety, the protection of users and, where appropriate, other persons, and fair competition on the union market.
in writing. ‒ i myself support the new proposal for a regulation which sets out new rules on the free movement of gas appliances in the eu internal market. this is a hugely important area, with as many as 470 million gas appliances in the eu, from simple portable cookers to boilers for large buildings, and the number is growing. the proposed regulation replaces the current directive, which has proved to be highly problematic in the harmonisation procedures with the national laws of the member states. by choosing a regulation that is directly applicable in the member states, the latter will be able to save the costs associated with transposing a directive. furthermore, the form of the regulation avoids the risk of divergences in transmission which could lead to different levels of security and distortions of the internal market. it should also be noted that the proposal is in line with eu legislation governing energy supply and energy efficiency. the new equipment will also have to bear the ce marking, which will facilitate the certification of products placed on the market.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns a proposal for a regulation on gas-fired plants to replace directive 2009/142/ec. the change of the legal instrument from a directive to a regulation would, in line with the general political effort, result in better legislation and simplification of the regulatory environment. the proposed regulation should thus ensure the proper functioning of the internal market for gas appliances. the gas sector plays an important role in the eu economy and employs 476 000 people. gas installations cover a wide range of products, of which there are currently 470 million in the eu and their number is growing. the proposal for a regulation contains the provisions specific to union harmonisation legislation for products and lays down the obligations of the relevant economic operators (manufacturers, authorised representatives, importers and distributors) in accordance with the decision on the new legislative framework. the text of the regulation also contains a number of amendments which place greater emphasis on consumer protection and includes amendments on the precautions that should be taken to prevent carbon monoxide poisoning in humans. i believe that it is crucial that such an important sector is properly regulated and that appropriate regulatory measures are provided for the industry concerned. i therefore supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on gas-fired power stations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on gas-fired power stations. the report makes some important amendments, which i support. one of these is the proposed amendment to exclude from the regulation devices which have historical and artistic value and are not put into use as antiques, and other devices used for exhibition or collecting purposes. i also welcome the amendment proposal to delete the commission's proposal that equipment manufacturers should issue a certificate of conformity of equipment, in which they should provide information on the conformity of equipment with the requirements of this regulation. the issue of certificates of conformity of equipment would only mean additional work for companies and even more confusion in fulfilling their obligations.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on gas-fired appliances, because, given that the gas sector plays an important role in the eu economy (employing 476 000 people in the gas appliance sector alone) and that more than 30 million gas appliances are sold every year, i believe that the existing directive 2009/142/ec needs to be updated. the new directive, which simplifies the european regulatory environment, in particular by clarifying and harmonising the existing provisions, carries greater weight from the point of view of consumer protection. i also support the amendments on precautions to prevent human carbon monoxide poisoning, which is the main cause of death associated with gas installations in europe.
in writing. ‒ the market for gas-fired appliances plays an important role in the european economic area; the sector employs some 476 000 people and sells 30 million units each year. the proposal for a regulation thus lays down the essential requirements to be met by gas installations. since the proposed measures will further strengthen consumer protection, reduce the risk of accidents in the use of appliances and contribute to a more rational use of energy, i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation.
in writing. ‒ i also thought it worth supporting the proposed report on the new regulation on cable-laying devices. its essential purpose is to harmonise the conditions for placing on the market and to ensure the free movement of subsystems and safety components of cableway installations within the eu. this means that all safety components will have to be designed and manufactured in accordance with the requirements of that regulation. as in the case of the ppe report, this is a case of converting a legal instrument from a directive into a regulation, ensuring uniform implementation of legislation across the eu. however, member states remain competent to regulate other aspects related to cableway installations, such as land use, regional planning and environmental protection. the proposed regulation will also contain provisions on the market surveillance of wire ropes and is also expected to provide greater legal clarity for users.
in writing. ‒ the report refers to the proposal for a regulation on wire-cable equipment, which aims to harmonise the conditions for placing on the market and ensuring the free movement of subsystems and safety components of wire-cable equipment in the eu. all safety components and subsystems will, under that regulation, have to be designed and manufactured in accordance with the essential requirements set out in the regulation. the regulation also fully harmonises the essential requirements to be met by cableway installations. this means that member states may not impose stricter or additional requirements in their national legislation. i believe that a regulation is the appropriate solution, as it will avoid unnecessary transmission costs and will also provide clear and precise rules that will be uniformly applied throughout the eu. the regulation defines more clearly, in particular, cableway installations intended for transport and leisure purposes, and also excludes those installations used for leisure purposes in fairgrounds or amusement parks. it also aligns the conformity assessment procedures available for subsystems with those already in place for safety components. i agree with the proposal for a regulation, but i am also aware of the importance of the greatest possible harmonisation within the eu in this area, which is why i supported the report in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on wire ropes. there is a need for uniform measures at european union level to lay down the essential requirements for safety and health, environmental and consumer protection applicable to cableway installations, subsystems and their safety components. the report proposes, inter alia, an amendment to exclude from the scope of this regulation cableway installations defined as historical installations under national legislation, as well as their subsystems and safety components. in any case, all the proposed amendments are designed to improve consumer protection and safety.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on wire ropes, as i believe that the conditions for placing subsystems and safety components of wire ropes on the market should be harmonised and that their free movement within the eu should be ensured. i support the fact that safety components and subsystems, where this particularly concerns leisure facilities, transport and tourist historical facilities, will have to be designed and manufactured in accordance with the essential requirements of this regulation. the european union's main objective is to ensure that end-users are able to use devices more safely.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation introduces a set of measures to harmonise the conditions for placing on the market and ensuring the free movement of subsystems and safety components of cableway installations in the eu. i support the aim of the regulation that cableway installations meet requirements that guarantee a high level of protection of the health and safety of persons and therefore i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the proposed decision to oppose the delegated act on the gsp scheme because i do not see the reasons for this or because the commission's arguments convinced me that the adoption of the delegated act is justified.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the commission delegated regulation amending annex iii to the regulation of the european parliament and of the council applying a scheme of generalised tariff preferences. the resolution notes that the monitoring bodies of the relevant conventions have identified significant deficiencies with regard to a number of important gsp+ conventions. however, i do not consider that the deficiencies identified by the authorities constitute a serious defect in the effective implementation of the relevant conventions in annex viii to the gsp regulation.
in writing. ‒ i rejected the motion for a resolution on the objection to the delegated act on the gsp scheme because i do not agree with the objection that was raised. i consider that the delegated act is in accordance with all the rules and therefore authentic.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the adoption of the delegated regulation because i believe that it will not help to address the violations of fundamental human rights that have been identified in the states parties. the findings are worrying and there is a need to establish, within existing schemes, tighter controls on the observance of international conventions on human and workers' rights in developing countries, parties to trade agreements, and to effectively sanction violations.
in writing. ‒ i also did not support the proposed decision to reject the delegated act on specific compositional and information requirements for cereal-based meal and baby food, as the rejection could have consequences for the food industry, which has been waiting for this delegated act for a long time. i consider that the proposal for a delegated act adequately protects the health of young children and infants, who are the main users of cereal-based meal, if i may say so. i am afraid that the rejection of the delegated act will be detrimental to the european food industry. but it is now for the commission to respond to the complaints and to prepare a more acceptable act.
in writing. ‒ baby food may have 30% of the energy content from sugar under the provisions of the delegated regulation. who and the scientific committees in the individual member states recommend a strong reduction in the total amount of sugar consumed. introducing such foods at such early ages may contribute to an increase in childhood obesity and may affect the development of their taste. i think it's worth mentioning at this point that poor diet is by far the biggest cause of illness and death in the world today. the motion for a resolution in question is contrary to the delegated regulation as it does not contain adequate measures to protect infants and young children from obesity. the regulation should significantly reduce the maximum intake of sugar, in line with the who recommendations. i agree that the amount of added sugar, especially for infants and young children, should be kept to a minimum. for the latter reason, i supported the motion for a resolution on specific compositional and information requirements for processed cereal-based foods and baby foods.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the commission delegated regulation supplementing the regulation of the european parliament and of the council as regards specific compositional and information requirements for processed cereal-based foods and baby foods. i consider the commission delegated regulation to be satisfactory and to contain sufficient measures to protect infants and young children from obesity. i also disagree with the resolution's references to pollutants, labelling and transparency. that is why i did not support the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on opposition to the delegated act on specific compositional and information requirements for cereal-based meal and baby food, as infants and young children are a population group particularly vulnerable to food additives. childhood obesity is a serious problem faced by too many children. it is unacceptable that excessive advertising and low standards promote the consumption of foods that are harmful to health in the long run. this is particularly unacceptable when it comes to infant feeding. we must be especially careful with children, since we must realize that poor nutrition is by far the most common cause of illness and death in the world today.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the proposed resolution because i consider that the existing provisions of regulation (eu) no 609/2013 of the european parliament and of the council on specific compositional and information requirements for processed cereal-based foods and baby foods adequately implement health principles and standards and establish an effective health protection framework.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the results of the peace process in colombia, which alone can ensure lasting peace after decades of violence and victims. reconciliation and peace have no alternative. i am convinced that peace will enable a new quality of co-existence in colombia and help release its rich development potential. i congratulate the political leaders and supporters of the peace process for their achievements. i am thankful to pope francis and to spiritual leader sri sri ravi shankar for contributing in the peace process. they have contributed vitally to the decision of the conflicting parties for a non-violent exercise of political will. definitely, the signature and full implementation of the agreement will also open a new era of enhanced cooperation, between the eu and colombia.
in writing. ‒ the eu and colombia have political relations based on dialogue and mutual respect in the framework of the memorandum of understanding of 28 november 2009. since 2009, they have also been engaged in a political dialogue focusing on human rights. on 19 november 2012, the desire of the colombian people to live in peace was fulfilled by the signing of a general agreement to resolve the conflict and build a stable and lasting peace between the government of colombia and the farc. the same parties also concluded an agreement on 15 december 2015 on victims of conflict, which includes a special competence for peace and a commitment to human rights. this agreement is seen as an essential step towards building a stable and lasting peace and recognises all victims of the conflict as citizens with rights. i agree that such talks are essential to reach an agreement for a stable and lasting peace, which marks the end of half a century of armed internal conflict. i support all ongoing talks to achieve a final ceasefire as soon as possible and a complete cessation of hostilities. the resolution highlights the problematic points of the peace process in colombia and proposes appropriate solutions to improve the situation there. as such, i can mention the establishment of an effective system to verify the link between crimes and armed conflict, and the call for colombia to disband paramilitary groups. i supported the resolution because of what you described.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the peace process in colombia. we often discuss in the european parliament the violation of human rights in the world, armed conflicts and civil wars. this resolution is different. it welcomes the peace process in colombia, which has been achieved after 50 years of civil war and the enormous loss of life which has resulted from it. this is an important step towards signing a truce between the government and the resistance movements.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the peace process in colombia, which i believe will bring the country, after decades of violence, numerous victims (more than 220 000 so far) and the forced displacement of more than 6 million people, a significant step closer to ending the conflict and achieving lasting peace in the country. the agreement, which puts the priority on helping victims, tackling the problem of illicit drugs and establishing a fair judicial system, will in the long term improve the quality of life for citizens, ensure fairness and contribute to the progress of the colombian economy. it is right that the european union actively supports colombia in laying the foundations of democracy and sustainable peace.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the peace process in colombia, which will enable the colombian people to build a stable and lasting peace after 50 years of continuous armed conflict. peace negotiations lay the foundations for equitable economic and social development and the rule of law.
when the so-called pro-european currents won the elections in ukraine a year and a half ago, there was, of course, great hope that, with the help of the association agreement, moldova would be able to embark rapidly on a path of important reforms, which would, of course, increase confidence in politics on the one hand and ensure greater prosperity for moldovan citizens on the other. and then, of course, a lot of sad things happened in moldova, including, of course, banking issues, financial issues, justice issues, even freedom of the media. the new government is now giving new hope, and it is our natural duty to help moldova as much as possible to make serious progress on reforms as soon as possible, thereby also enabling the implementation of the so-called association agreements and making progress.
i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mrs lunacek, for her excellent work and for all the effort she has put into the content of this report. i think that the association agreement is of crucial importance and is in fact a window on the world for kosovo, which has been going through one of the most difficult periods in recent years, decades. this agreement, in fact, opens the door to the free movement of goods, people and goods, including the introduction, finally, of the so-called visa regime. and of course this agreement also allows a lot of space in the field of energy development, infrastructure and of course it opens up possibilities to solve environmental challenges, which are not negligible in kosovo. above all, however, we must be careful: kosovo also plays an important role in ensuring stability in the region, and this is also the responsibility of the european union.
the world is being rocked by a series of terrorist attacks. this week, the attack shook pakistan, last weekend, burkina faso. the year 2015 will be remembered with bitterness in europe too. he's concerned about the growing phenomenon of terrorism. young people born in europe who, because of exclusion from society, are subject to radicalisation. the challenges are extraordinary. terrorism is a threat to peace and world order, but it is important to distinguish and emphasise again and again: refugees must not be associated with terrorism! most refugees flee from terrorism and war. the safety of people is essential, but security measures alone are doomed to fail unless they are adequately accompanied by social policies at home and outside europe to prevent radicalisation. we need to address the causes of the crisis at its source. europe also urgently needs a clear strategy on how to deal with returnees. exchange of information, yes, that's the key. until this works between the countries, then, unfortunately, no action will help. building trust is also vital. member states need to engage more actively in the exchange of information on crime, the tracking and financing of foreign fighters, terrorist cells, the tracking of weapons and other threats to european security. i am surprised at the council's attitude in not agreeing to the mandatory sharing of information on potential terrorists in the new pnr directive, despite the fact that it could have prevented many tragedies. we need to be more decisive in countering radical islamist propaganda on social media, we need to empower parents and enforce parental permission for teenagers to travel, we need to give more voice to victims, we need to be more effective in identifying and rehabilitating problematic, radicalized individuals into society. the fight against terrorism must include security measures with full respect for human rights. (the speaker agreed to accept the question raised by the blue card (rule 162 (8)).
answer to the question posed by raising the blue card. thank you for your question, mr. chairman. at this point, it is important to emphasize that the exchange of information is necessary, but we must not go too far in terms of interfering with our own privacy. there's the exchange of information on terrorism, organized crime, so it all depends on what the proposal is and how the negotiations go.
first, we need to be very clear about what the key reasons for the spread of terrorism are. first, many young europeans are disappointed, without a future. the big ghettos are emerging in the european capitals, which are the real breeding grounds for terrorist cells. from there, young europeans are leaving to join the islamic state and carry out terrorist attacks across europe. the overthrow of dictatorial regimes in libya, iraq, the events in syria and afghanistan have resulted in the emergence of the terrorist islamic state, a large flow of migrants and refugees that have destabilised europe. the islamic state and also some arab countries are financing terrorism and have announced the islamization of europe and terrorist attacks on europe. terrorism knows no borders, and therefore there must be a full exchange of information and full cooperation between security services and a joint fight against terrorism. the causes of terrorism must be eliminated. but, commissioner, please be proportionate in your action and do not disturb honest europeans as you do with the current arms directive, where you have targeted those who have legal weapons, forgetting that the illegal trade is the real source of terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased to have voted in favour of the decision to conclude the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and kosovo. the agreement thus establishes a better political dialogue, closer trade integration and new forms of cooperation. it covers several sectors, including respect for and promotion of democratic principles and human rights, and establishes a framework for cooperation in sectors such as education, energy, environment, justice and home affairs. the adoption of european standards in the fields of competition, public procurement, intellectual property, etc. is also encouraged. it is up to kosovo now to start making fundamental reforms. the situation in the kosovo area is extremely difficult. unemployment is high, the population is moving away en masse, and the level of corruption is also among the highest in europe. i hope that the agreement adopted will really create opportunities for investment and growth, business development, which is crucial for the future of kosovo. i also welcome the enhanced cooperation between belgrade and pristina, which paves the way for a future free of the conflicts that have been going on for decades between them. i am confident that the opening of the eu-serbia pre-accession negotiations will also help to achieve this. the city of the balkans is in the eu!
in writing. ‒ negotiations on a stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and kosovo were concluded in july 2014. the national assembly of the republic of kosovo subsequently ratified the agreement on 2 november 2014. the agreement establishes a contractual relationship that provides for improved political dialogue, closer trade integration and new forms of cooperation between the eu and kosovo. it covers several sectors, including respect for and promotion of democratic principles and human rights. it also contains provisions promoting european standards in areas such as competition, public procurement, intellectual property and consumer protection. the agreement sets out rights and obligations and provides a strong impetus for the implementation and institutionalisation of reforms. the recommendation calls for the approval of the conclusion of the agreement, which is the central document in the process of stabilisation and association of kosovo. the stabilisation and association agreement will create opportunities for investment, growth, business development and strengthening, while also ensuring good governance through the application of european standards and the approximation of eu legislation. the agreement should also, inter alia, open up possibilities for strengthening contacts with experts in relevant sectors (environment, fight against crime and illicit trafficking, culture, etc.) and further strengthen relations and cooperation with neighbouring countries, thus contributing to the stability of the region. as this is an important step in the process of accession and the rapprochement of the republic of kosovo with the eu, i supported the recommendation in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community, of the one part, and kosovo, of the other part. this is a historic event the stabilisation and association agreement with kosovo is now becoming a reality. the agreement is a milestone for kosovo and brings new opportunities for the country's economy. the future of kosovo is in the european union. but european integration is not a given. this requires a great deal of political will and the implementation of much-needed reforms. in the case of kosovo, the fight against corruption is the key issue where kosovo must show a strong will to progress.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and kosovo, as i believe that the agreement will bring about closer trade integration, create opportunities for investment, capital raising and growth and development in all areas of the country's activities. it will bring new opportunities and progress for both the eu and kosovo, while also contributing to the stability of kosovo's relations with neighbouring countries and the region itself.
in writing. ‒ i supported the stabilisation and association agreement, which establishes a contractual relationship between kosovo and the eu and will make a significant contribution to the development and stability of the situation in the balkans. i am confident that the republic of kosovo will make efforts to successfully comply with the provisions promoting european standards and to work towards the establishment of a free trade area and respect for democratic principles and fundamental human rights.
in writing. ‒ although i opposed the proposed decision to set up a committee of inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector, because i believe that it is the task of the competent national authorities as well as of the legislators to eliminate the unlawful consequences of the volkswagen affair, i expect the committee to carry out its task responsibly and objectively. decisions should not be to the detriment of the european automotive industry but should focus on identifying and punishing offenders appropriately and proposing solutions to prevent such abuses in the future, thus restoring consumer confidence in the automotive sector. the european automotive industry represents around a quarter of the world's motor vehicle production, is one of the pillars of the european economy with a highly multiplier effect, and its protection is therefore of the utmost importance to the eu. it's important that the committee work on solutions and not act like some kind of inquisitorial court that would cause even more damage. i repeat, the committee must determine the liability of the volkswagen fraudsters and ensure that such cases do not occur again.
in writing. ‒ i see the inquiry committee as a useful tool to restore the confidence of citizens in the european automotive sector and evaluate possible solutions not only to amend mistakes, but also to bring higher and better standards. in this way, both the industry and consumers will benefit in the long run, by having an eye on a framework to avoid similar mistakes and on the other hand preserving the european automotive industry leadership as well as capacity for innovation and job creation. let’s use the inquiry committee as a booster for the industry in terms of innovation.
in writing. ‒ i voted to appoint the members of the committee of inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector. although i oppose the committee of inquiry, as i do not think there is a need to set up a special committee of inquiry to investigate the conduct of the european commission and the member states, i supported the appointment of members of the committee of inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a decision appointing members of the committee of inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector, as i believe that the appointed members will carry out their work professionally and contribute to progress in this area.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a decision appointing the members of the committee of inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector. i agree that a thorough investigation should be carried out into the role and responsibility of the commission and the competent authorities of the member states in alleged breaches and irregularities in the application of eu law relating to emission measurements in the automotive sector. i hope that consumer confidence in the car industry will be restored and that effective measures will be taken to prevent the recurrence of emissions measurement infringements.
in writing. ‒ georgia, moldova and ukraine are part of a strategic block from a political, geographic and economic point of view. the eu, now more than ever, should continue investing in giving this region the benefits of the fundamental values of the eu and helping in achieving structural reforms. the steps towards the implementation of association and deep and comprehensive free trade agreements are key building blocks in the comprehensive approach strategy.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the association agreement between moldova and the eu is very important, as it marks an important step forward for moldova towards european integration. the agreement further deepens and strengthens political, economic and social relations between the two partners. and that is why the eu cannot stand idly by as moldova faces a deep and difficult political crisis in the country that has paralysed significant progress towards a european perspective. in this context, i can therefore express concern about a number of important areas facing moldova, but i still see the most problematic one as the moldovan financial and banking sector, which poses a huge threat to the country's economic progress. therefore, it is vital that the problem be resolved in a completely transparent manner, that all stolen funds be returned, and that the perpetrators be held accountable. there is an urgent need to step up the fight against corruption and to reform the judiciary. the moldovan government will have to improve in this area if it is to achieve full european integration, and the eu must actively and unconditionally help it to do so. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution in plenary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the association agreements/deep and comprehensive free trade areas with georgia, moldova and ukraine. i welcome the formation of a new government in moldova. i expect her to roll up her sleeves and get down to business, which is a lot. modernisation and the necessary reforms are mandatory if moldova is to continue its eu convergence. the fight against corruption, particularly in the banking sector, needs to be strengthened. what is needed is to stabilize the country and the economy.
in writing. ‒ i supported the joint motion for a resolution replacing the motions for resolutions on the association agreements/deep and comprehensive free trade areas with georgia, moldova and ukraine, as i believe that closer political and economic integration benefits both the countries involved and the european union. the european union will be able to provide additional support to ukraine's priority efforts to address the adverse economic measures that have affected it. these countries will be able to move towards a democratic system where human rights and fair law will be at the forefront.
in writing. ‒ i supported the association agreements with georgia, moldova and ukraine because i believe they will help stabilise the political situation, economic development and the implementation of european legal standards.
in writing. ‒ the terrorist attacks in paris last november have turned the tide in france and europe. france declared war on the islamic state and immediately after the attacks, it requested the activation of article 42 (7) tfeu, which stipulates that a military attack on one eu member state is an attack on the eu as a whole. the eu defence ministers later confirmed the activation of this article, but i agree with the report that the paris attacks should not be seen as military attacks that fall under the article. the solidarity clause in article 222 teu would be more relevant, which would strengthen the exchange of information and coordination at eu level. terrorism knows no borders and therefore there must be a full exchange of information, full cooperation between security services and a common fight against terrorism; the causes of terrorism must be eliminated. the causes of terrorism on european soil are mainly linked to the removal of dictatorial regimes in libya and iraq and to events in syria and afghanistan. the result is the rise of the terrorist islamic state and the largest influx of migrants and refugees since world war ii, which is increasingly destabilising europe. the situation can be addressed by addressing the crisis in syria, by stopping the flow of migrants and by an active policy of integration of muslims into european society.
in writing. ‒ europe needs a deep discussion on foreign security and defence policy to enter into a structured exchange and operational cooperation between military, border control agencies, the police and the secret services. the activation of the mutual defence clause means a first step in this direction, which i fully support.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution expresses, first of all, deep shock at the brutality and inhumanity of the terrorist attacks in paris in november 2015. it strongly condemns the terrorist attacks and calls on all europeans to respond to them with more democracy, openness, freedom and respect for human rights. i agree that more european cooperation is needed in the fight against terrorism and that this requires a number of new strategies, guidelines, instruments, funds and procedures. i also believe that efforts in the areas of de-radicalisation, the prevention of violent extremism and the fight against terrorism need to be stepped up. in doing so, it should focus on strengthening social cohesion, crime prevention, targeted police action and security measures based on individual suspicions or concrete threats. i support the proposed eu response to terrorism, which promotes democracy, dialogue and good governance. all of this is included in the motion for a resolution, which is why i supported it in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the mutual defence clause. we have seen terrorist attacks and threats of terrorist attacks in the last year and we must respond appropriately. i welcome the agreement and solidarity of the european defence ministers who met just days after the attacks. coordination and cooperation between member states and other international partners, including the arab world, is essential. i believe that the priority is to resolve the conflict in syria and to develop a common foreign policy on the future of syria and the wider middle east.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the mutual defence clause, as it is particularly important that the european parliament shows support and solidarity to its members in moments of crisis such as those caused by a terrorist attack. the increase in threats, which primarily affect civilians, calls for a strengthening of european internal and external security and defence. we will achieve this through a common european union strategy and closer structured cooperation between member states.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament resolution on the mutual defence clause, as i believe that the institutions of the european union and the member states need to be more active in the field of security and defence policy. it is therefore envisaged to draw up guidelines to ensure an effective response in the event that one of the member states invokes the mutual defence clause. the call for a common eu foreign policy on the future of syria and the wider middle east and a future eu global strategy is also key.
in writing. ‒ the un is undoubtedly the best forum for promoting eu values and interests, as it transfers them to the global level. universal human rights, which are upheld by both the un and the eu, are an important segment that needs to be given a lot of attention, as human rights violations are increasing and becoming more serious. the eu's role in the protection of human rights within the un is therefore of paramount importance, but there are a number of shortcomings that hamper effective action. the eu cannot act as a single entity within the un, as un action is geared towards individual states rather than intergovernmental organisations as the eu is. the eu itself has problems with a fragmented foreign policy, which means that it does not play a leading role in international relations. the interests of individual member states play a much greater role here, and the interests of the eu as a whole are often sidelined, as they are often difficult to identify, let alone defend. the eu therefore needs to be united, critical and decisive in tackling the current global challenges, and this must also be demonstrated at un level. states must stop thinking for themselves and defending their interests at all costs and tackle the challenges together.
in writing. ‒ the eu should maintain its leadership position in influencing the global human rights agenda. i am inclined towards approaching third countries from a humble position, not with a moderate scale of human rights, but by understanding the identity of third countries and finding ways of promoting human rights in a way that the right conditions for improvement are created, searching for respect and joint sharing points.
in writing. ‒ respect for, and promotion and protection of, the universality of human rights is part of the eu's ethical and legal order and one of the foundations of the european community and its integrity. the human rights situation in the eu member states has a direct impact on the credibility of its human rights policy abroad. i agree that respect for human rights must be promoted in all areas related to peace and security, development cooperation, migration, trade and investment, humanitarian aid, climate change and the fight against terrorism. the motion for a resolution concerns the regular sessions of the un human rights council. these sessions contribute to international efforts to promote and respect human rights, democracy and the rule of law. the motion for a resolution reiterates, first of all, the eu's position that the members of the human rights council should be elected from among countries that uphold the highest standards in the promotion and protection of human rights, the rule of law and democracy. the draft resolution sets out some of the eu's priorities for the un council. as such, i can list cooperation between eu member states and the human rights council, the field of civil and political rights, social and economic rights, the importance of the participation of indigenous peoples, migration and refugee issues, climate rights, women's rights, etc. i agree with the priorities listed and therefore voted to approve the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the eu's priorities for the un human rights council in 2016. i cannot agree with the claims made about the middle east peace process that israeli settlements are illegal under international law and negatively affect the implementation of the two-state solution. blaming israel for not achieving a two-state solution is irresponsible. we would rather pay more attention to the financing of quasi-civilian and non-governmental, but in reality terrorist organisations, with european union money.
in writing. ‒ i rejected the motion for a resolution on the european union's priorities for the 2016 un human rights council sessions, as a potential source of conflict between nations, a key element of the eln, was rejected. freedom of religion and intolerance of it due to the current migration crisis is coming to the fore. interfaith dialogue should therefore be particularly important in 2016 to better understand differences and, as a result, to promote tolerance and peace among peoples.
in writing. ‒ the un human rights council plays a key role in geopolitical processes, so it is important that the european union comes forward with a strong proposal on priorities. the final version of the european parliament resolution on the eu's priorities was unfortunately not balanced and i did not support it in the vote.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed annual review report on the work of the committee on petitions for 2014 and the accompanying programme of activities. the latter is shaped by citizens who, by exercising their right to petition the european parliament, express concerns about the various political and legislative areas of the eu. the report gives a comprehensive picture of the work of the committee on petitions, containing statistical data on the number of petitions received, the countries of origin and the topics raised by petitioners. the european parliament thus received 2714 petitions in 2014, which is 6% less than in 2013. petitions remain an important tool for european citizens to raise awareness of a particular issue, and parliament must deal with them with extreme caution.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, 2,714 petitions were received, almost 6% less than in 2013. of these, 790 petitions were found admissible and were further examined. the number of petitions received is rather modest compared to the eu population as a whole. this data clearly shows that the vast majority of eu citizens are not sufficiently aware of the right to petition or of its potential usefulness as a means of drawing the attention of the european institutions and the member states to issues that affect them or concern them. the report highlights that the work of the committee on petitions allows eu citizens and residents to participate to some extent in the protection and promotion of their rights and in monitoring the correct application of union rules. citizens express their concerns in petitions and their legitimate complaints are resolved within a reasonable time. it seems to me worth pointing out that the report calls, inter alia, on the commission to cooperate fully in the petitions procedure, in particular by carrying out thorough investigations of the admissibility of the cases referred to it. the commission should provide accurate and up-to-date written replies to the applicant at the end of the procedure. since i believe that the proper handling of petitions throughout the procedure is crucial to ensuring respect for the right to petition, i voted in favour of adopting the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the activities of the committee on petitions in 2014. the report indicates that the work of the committee on petitions has been successful, but there are still many reservations. i regret that the rapporteur did not seek dialogue with the rapporteur in the shadow of the european people's party. i also think that we should distinguish more quickly between admissible and inadmissible petitions and petitions for which we have no jurisdiction. this will buy us time to work intensively on the petitions for which we are responsible. i also miss more transparency and less politicization of the petitions that are dealt with. reservations are also being made to improve cooperation between the committee on petitions and the committees on petitions of the national parliaments.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the report on the activities of the committee on petitions in 2014 as i believe that it summarises well the developments in this area in 2014. the data presented can be a very good tool for drawing conclusions and evaluating the work of individual national authorities and european institutions, and for identifying topics that need to be addressed more in the future, either at national or at union level. the committee enables eu citizens to exercise their fundamental right to express their views and to be included, which we must certainly continue to support.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the activities of the committee on petitions because i believe it provides a comprehensive overview of the committee's work and statistical analysis of the petitions received in the previous year and the course of their further examination. petitions provide valuable feedback for legislators and executive bodies at eu and national level. on the basis of this information, it is necessary to consider concrete measures to further improve this instrument and to strengthen its representativeness.
the european central bank, of course, plays a very important role in the recovery of the world and european economies. it has mechanisms in place to promote growth. it is difficult to choose the right combination of instruments, but the ecb has already proven in the past that it can and does do this: help the economy. however, all these measures have so far not been sufficiently effective. the money never made it to the economy. it's not what we expected. however, despite the criticism of the ecb, we must also acknowledge that ecb action alone will not be enough to stimulate economic growth. reforms are needed, as some of my colleagues have already pointed out. and of course, individual member states have not been equally successful in implementing these reforms. we may be facing another economic, financial and social crisis and the ecb has a great responsibility to prevent this by its actions and the way it will act.
first of all, of course, i would like to thank my colleague viviane reding, the rapporteur, for these recommendations. i myself have represented the position of the political group of the european people's party on the econ committee's area in this story and i know full well that there is a lot of work and coordination behind this report. i therefore regret that some people want to stop the adoption of an agreement which could bring the member states of the european union easier exchanges of services and more jobs. often, opposition is found to be based on fear or ignorance, so it is very important that we are as transparent as possible and that people have as much information as possible. sometimes, though, this opposition simply stems from a desire to maintain monopolies. of course, competition is not always desirable, but when it is not, the greatest damage is suffered by us, the consumers. i want to see a successful outcome, of course, but above all i want these negotiations to be as transparent as possible.
the world is changing fast. various telecommunications, transport and other services account for a very large share of today's economy. the world is going digital. with the increasing share of digital services, it is imperative that the european parliament gives the european commission a very clear starting point to negotiate tisa on behalf of the european people. mrs reding's report is very balanced and i support it. the report offers an opportunity for the european economy, both large and small, and it is also very attentive to workers' rights, so that social dumping does not occur. the agreement must also ensure greater rights for consumers of services, as we are increasingly becoming consumers of services on a global scale. the protection of personal data is also one of the areas that is addressed and it is essential that it is well addressed. but we also have to be mindful of public services, which must remain in the public interest. i support the european parliament's confidence and its clear position vis-à-vis the european commission.
preserving biodiversity is a matter of our survival. the report is clear: 'continuing with the practices and dynamics of the past will not achieve the objectives set. we can succeed if we approach the problem with conceptual and strategic unity and a willingness to change the paradigm. how effective we are in this regard is shown by the deaths of bees, on which more than three quarters of our food production depends, year after year. bees don't die by themselves. they're a threat to other species. the harmful indebtedness of the environment and future generations through bad practices in agriculture and other sectors needs to be addressed through concrete policies. i'm sure we have the knowledge to change course. the common agricultural policy must be geared to supporting farming practices that are permanently geared to the conservation of biodiversity. agricultural policy must have an environmental soul.
after a failed twenty-year period in which concessionaires in slovenian state forests mainly looked after their own pockets, the left-center slovenian government decided to set up a state-owned enterprise that would employ foresters, loggers, buy tractors, economic equipment, build logistics centres with state money and sell wood on the market. the establishment of the slovenian state forests company is a major risk for systemic risks, as the operations of the state-owned company will be influenced by interest groups, conflicts between parties and unsuccessful personnel decisions. at the same time, there is a risk of systemic corruption. unfortunately, we already have many such cases in slovenia. the state-owned company will compete with other bidders on the market with state money and a state guarantee. the country thus enters the fringe of free market interference, the competitive field, and can thus find itself under the scrutiny of the european commission. the flow of concessions in state forests could be used to improve the management of state forests, but unfortunately it could become a sinkhole for taxpayers' money.
on behalf of the ppe group. commissioner marianne thyssen, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues. the problem of black-marketing is certainly one of the most important european problems, with very serious budgetary consequences. but of course, more important than the budgetary consequences are the consequences of black-collar work for the people who do it. social dumping is unacceptable in europe today. but governments are primarily responsible for preventing the use of black labor in their own countries. people who accept this form of work in various circumstances are usually not sufficiently aware of the long-term consequences. and of course... these long-term consequences are much worse than the short-term ones, when people get some money so they can survive. however, as mentioned above, these forms of work are very different and are tackled very differently by countries. it is therefore right that we should also establish some common guidelines at european level, some guidelines to prevent undeclared work. and with the establishment of the platform, we will achieve exactly that. i myself, of course, would argue that the involvement of the social partners is extremely important, and it is also right that we have retained the principle of subsidiarity. thank you for this place once again to mr. pirinsky. the negotiations were long, they were tough, but in the end we came to a good compromise.
so, black-collar work, of course, as many of you have already said, has very serious negative consequences on many segments, first of course on workers' rights, on their pension... pension status, also social rights and so on. and of course, the budget, the state budget, the municipal budget and finally the budget of the european union. it is true, however, that this platform, which must be safeguarded, must be followed by concrete measures. and i think there are many other areas where we can help in the fight against the black market. one of these is, of course, an appropriate tax policy that is supposed to be incentive, that is supposed to push employers and workers into a black-collar relationship. public procurement can be a great incentive for those who want to work with the state, with municipalities, these companies have to show that they meet all the conditions for employees. a comparison of activities in the field of active employment policy, social policy and, above all, also updating the data so that we have timely and correct data on the true number of people working underground. (the speaker agreed to accept the question raised by the blue card (rule 162 (8)).
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. - of course you are. i think that the protection of workers' rights should of course also be established at european level. if we have a so-called ombudsman who looks after human rights, surely one of the human rights is also the right to work, to live a decent life. and so it would not be a bad idea to think about this platform further, even for the so-called inspector general at the european level, as was thought of the prosecutor general at the european level. for someone who would, on the one hand, ensure that data is exchanged consistently between member states and promote good practice so that this gap, which you are talking about from one or three per cent to 40 per cent, would not increase but decrease.
in writing. i welcome the overall package presented by the european commission. i am pleased that the proposal is based on the recommendations of the oecd, which were endorsed by the leaders of the most economically powerful countries at the g20 summit last november. i support the 'tax where profit is made' rule, which all member states should respect in their tax policies. increased transparency of operations is a key factor in the fight against aggressive tax planning by large economic companies. we lose 170 billion euros a year because of tax evasion. can you imagine what each of these countries could do with a hundred of that money? i wish the commission every success in its work to combat tax evasion, and i hope that the member states will respond well. we all know competition is healthy. but not the kind of competition that evades the rules.
in writing. ‒ although this sounds like a very important topic around the schengen regime, which could be discussed a lot given the current migration situation, the proposal for a regulation is merely a codification of the text without any substantive changes. therefore, there were no complications in supporting the technical corrections to the text prepared by the consultative groups of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission. for the reasons set out above, i supported the proposed regulation.
in writing. ‒ different events have proved that the cross-border movement of persons could not be sufficiently achieved by the member states but could rather be better achieved at union level. given the current state of play in which the schengen area is confronted with extreme realities, a solution from the union is what is needed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the union code on the rules governing the movement of persons across borders (schengen borders code). i support the adoption of the commission proposal, which has been adapted in line with the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission. these are not substantive amendments, but merely a codification of the existing text.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a union code on the rules governing the movement of persons across borders (schengen borders code), as i considered that the necessity and proportionality of reintroducing internal border controls should be considered in the light of the threat to public policy or internal security that has created the need for such controls. however, alternative measures that could be taken at national, union or both levels and the impact of such controls on the free movement of persons within the area without internal border control should also be considered. the reintroduction of internal border control should continue to apply only exceptionally in an area where persons may move freely. the first priority must be the safety of all citizens of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is mainly a technical codification of existing rules that have been amended several times. specifically, the purpose of this proposal is to undertake a codification of regulation (ec) no 562/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 15 march 2006 establishing a community code on the rules governing the movement of persons across borders (schengen borders code). the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it; this proposal fully preserves the content of the acts being codified and does nothing more than bring them together with the only exception of formal amendments that are required by the codification exercise itself. the reason for such codifications is that the commission attaches great importance to simplifying and clarifying the law of the union so as to make it clearer and more accessible to citizens. this aim cannot be achieved so long as numerous provisions that have been amended several times, often quite substantially, remain scattered, so that they must be sought partly in the original instrument and partly in later amending ones.
in writing. ‒ schengen is one of the european union's greatest achievements. today it is being tested, and with it the eu. it is essential to stop or contain the wave of migration, and this requires coordinated action by all member states in controlling the external borders. i therefore supported the proposal for a regulation which brings together a set of common measures and rules on the movement of persons across borders.
in writing. ‒ as with the protocol on persistent organic pollutants, the proposal to amend the protocol on heavy metals to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution sets out, in particular, stricter emission limit values for dust from certain major stationary sources, as well as flexible transitional arrangements that will benefit those parties that accede to the amended protocol before the end of 2019, including countries in eastern and south-eastern europe. these protocols are important because air pollution knows no national boundaries, and therefore proper cooperation and unification of protocols is the only possible option, and for this reason i support these solutions.
in writing. i supported the ratification of the 1998 protocol on heavy metals amendments to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, as this document confirms the commitments of member states and imposes enhanced responsibilities on them in their efforts to achieve cleaner air. the convention under discussion is the first international agreement on the prevention of the adverse effects of heavy metals on the air and provides a framework for further restrictions on the use of cadmium, mercury and lead.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision adopting the amendment of the 1998 protocol on heavy metals to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution. much has been written about air pollution, and many studies have been conducted. i support the amendments to the protocol which have been made following the review of adequacy and effectiveness by the contracting parties. the amended protocol brings stricter limits for dust emissions from some major fixed sources as well as flexible transitional arrangements.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the adoption of the 1998 amendment to the protocol on heavy metals to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, as i consider it an important step towards a higher level of environmental and air protection in the union. air pollutants can travel over 1,000 km before they settle, so we need to address the problem in an internationally coordinated way. the new directive, which sets updated national emission ceilings for certain air pollutants and allows for the establishment of annual national emission inventories, will thus further upgrade the existing protocol, harmonise emissions across all member states and consequently improve the quality of life of eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which contains a recommendation from the european parliament to accept a series of amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution on heavy metals. the objective of this protocol is to control emissions of heavy metals caused by anthropogenic activities that are subject to long-range transboundary atmospheric transport and are likely to have significant adverse effects on human health or the environment. the parties to the protocol agreed, among other things, to reduce their total annual emissions into the atmosphere of each of the heavy metals listed in its annex, to facilitate the exchange of technologies and techniques designed to reduce emissions of heavy metals and to encourage research, development, monitoring and cooperation, primarily focusing on heavy metals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision adopting amendments to the 1998 protocol on persistent organic pollutants to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, which will set updated national emission ceilings for certain air pollutants and allow the introduction of annual national emission inventories covering, inter alia, emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury. the ratification of the measures and commitments will make a significant contribution to reducing harm to human health and the environment and limiting cross-border air pollution.
in writing. ‒ meps unanimously supported the amendment of the agreement, namely the 1998 protocol on persistent organic pollutants to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution. the 1998 objectives to control, reduce or eliminate releases, emissions and losses of persistent organic pollutants are being upgraded by updates to the protocol, including seven new substances, updating of requirements for several substances and limits for emissions of dioxins and furans, etc. the ratification of these amendments represents a significant step forward in the enhanced protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
in writing. i voted in favour of ratifying the 1998 protocol on persistent organic pollutants to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, as this is the first protocol to take account of multiple effects and seven additional pollutants. in the ec we already have the knowledge and technology to commit waste incinerators to limiting the release of organic pollutants in a way that is less harmful to the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision adopting amendments to the 1998 protocol on persistent organic pollutants to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution. i support the amendments to the 1998 protocol which require the parties to abandon the production and use of substances which cause releases, emissions and losses of persistent organic pollutants. the proposed amendment to the protocol updates the requirements for several substances, updates the limits for dioxins and furans and extends the list of substances subject to the total annual emission limits and subject to reporting.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the adoption of the 1998 protocol on persistent organic pollutants to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, as i believe that ratification of the amendments will be an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from air pollution. pollution, which is an international problem, will thus be reduced and better controlled throughout the union by the introduction of annual national emission inventories in eu countries, covering, inter alia, emissions of persistent organic pollutants (including pahs, pcdds and pcdfs, hcbs and pcbs). this will in turn have an impact on the quality of life of eu citizens. this will also have beneficial effects on human health.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which contains a recommendation from the european parliament to accept a series of amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution on persistent organic pollutants. the 1998 aarhus protocol on persistent organic pollutants aims to control, reduce or eliminate discharges, emissions and losses of pops. it requires parties to eliminate the production and use of a series of relevant substances, as well as to restrict the use of other substances such as dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (ddt), hexachlorocyclohexanes (hch) and polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs). the protocol entered into force on 23 october 2003 and was transposed into eu law through several legal instruments. the amended protocol includes seven new substances, updates implementation requirements for several substances, updates restrictions for pcdd/pcdf emissions from several sources, and adds pcbs to the list of substances affected by the total annual emission restrictions and reporting obligations. the amendments to the protocol are already largely covered by eu legislation, and will be further transposed via a new directive setting updated national emission ceilings for certain atmospheric pollutants.
in writing. ‒ i support the amendments to the protocol, which will be further transposed by a new directive, which will set updated national emission ceilings for certain air pollutants and allow the introduction of annual national emission inventories, which will cover, inter alia, emissions of certain persistent organic pollutants. the measures will make a significant contribution to the protection of the environment and human health.
in writing. ‒ meps voted in favour of the eurojust-ukraine agreement by a majority. in this politically unstable country in particular, the help of the european authorities in prosecuting the more serious forms of crime and terrorism is more than welcome. the exchange of information, the secondment of a liaison officer from ukraine to eurojust and the enhanced independence of the competent supervisory authority are key advantages of this cooperation. it also strengthens judicial cooperation across europe in the area of serious crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ with current geostrategic trends, security and neighbourhood development is of key importance. in this way, the eu should continue its efforts to provide ukraine with means to accelerate its reform process and convergence towards the eu. eurojust, an agency of the european union dealing with judicial co-operation in criminal matters, will add more stability for both ukraine and the eu in those matters.
in writing. ‒ eurojust is an organisation whose mission is to improve the efficiency of national authorities responsible for investigation and prosecution in dealing with the more serious forms of crossborder and organised crime and to ensure that perpetrators of crime are brought to justice swiftly and effectively. the report concerns the proposed approval of a cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine. the agreement would strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against more serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the draft agreement contains provisions on operational cooperation between eurojust and ukraine. the agreement provides for the secondment of a liaison officer from ukraine to eurojust and the exchange of information (e.g. exchange of personal data). the latter is the subject of controversy, but i do not think it is entirely justified. ukraine is a signatory to the council of europe convention for the protection of individuals with regard to automatic processing of personal data and its protocol on supervisory authorities and cross-border transfer of data. i believe that the agreement in question would help to combat and strengthen serious forms of crime, while also contributing to strengthening judicial cooperation. i therefore voted in favour of the report in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by eurojust of the cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine. the increasing international crime we are witnessing requires a reinforced fight against organised crime and therefore there is an urgent need for enhanced judicial cooperation between the countries of europe. the cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine will strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime and corruption. we need to increase the cooperation of as many actors as possible if we are to achieve good results.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by eurojust of the cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine. an agreement containing provisions on the exchange of personal information and defining in particular the operational level of cooperation is necessary to strengthen the fight against international crime. the agreement will also strengthen judicial cooperation between all member states, which will mean a more effective fight against the more serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism, which today represent a pressing problem across the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the draft council decision to formally approve the cooperation between eurojust and ukraine. more specifically, this proposal concerns the approval of a cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine with the aim to enhancing judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. this draft agreement contains provisions concerning the operational cooperation between eurojust and ukraine, such as the secondment of a liaison officer by ukraine to eurojust and the exchange of information, including personal data. i voted in favour of the conclusion of this agreement because in order to reinforce the fight against transnational crime and to enhance judicial co-operation in europe, there is a clear operational need for eurojust to cooperate with ukraine.
in writing. ‒ i support the draft cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine as it will help to strengthen operational judicial cooperation in the fight against international crime.
in writing. ‒ last week, at the plenary, i also voted in favour of the conclusion of the eurojust-montenegro cooperation agreement. montenegro will also offer more eu assistance in the prosecution of more serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. montenegro is operational and thus more than welcome to strengthen information exchange and judicial cooperation. the european union is also committed to the development of the internal market and the fight against fraud.
in writing. ‒ with current geostrategic trends, security and neighbourhood development is of key importance. eurojust, an agency of the european union dealing with judicial co-operation in criminal matters, will add stability in those matters to montenegro and the eu, and increased eu convergence to the whole region of the western balkans.
in writing. ‒ eurojust is an organisation which was set up in 2002. its main task is to promote and strengthen coordination and cooperation between national authorities in the fight against the more serious forms of crossborder crime affecting eu member states. these tasks shall be carried out by cooperating with each other in coordinating the work of the national authorities at all stages of investigations and prosecutions. they also address issues and practical problems arising from differences between the legal systems of the member states. the report refers to the proposed approval of an agreement between eurojust and montenegro to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against more serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. i agree that cooperation between eurojust and montenegro is essential from an operational point of view. this would strengthen the fight against international crime and judicial cooperation in europe. the european union and the member states shall cooperate in the field of criminal law and in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. in this regard, the competent joint supervisory body concluded that the provisions of the draft agreement on the exchange of personal data are appropriate. i agree that the conclusion of the said agreement would help to combat serious forms of crime and would contribute to strengthening judicial cooperation, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by eurojust of the cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro. the agreement between eurojust and montenegro will strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against the most serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. as with the agreement with ukraine, the agreement with montenegro will contribute to both better prevention and more effective detection of organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by eurojust of the cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro. an agreement containing provisions on the exchange of personal information and defining in particular the operational level of cooperation is necessary to strengthen the fight against international crime. the agreement will also strengthen union-wide judicial cooperation, making it more effective in combating the more serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism, which today represent a pressing problem throughout the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the draft council decision to formally approve the cooperation between eurojust and montenegro. more specifically, this proposal concerns the proposed approval of a cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro with the aim of enhancing judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. this draft agreement contains provisions concerning the operational cooperation between eurojust and montenegro, such as the secondment of a liaison prosecutor by montenegro to eurojust and the exchange of information, including personal data. i voted in favour of the conclusion of this agreement because in order to reinforce the fight against transnational crime and to enhance judicial co-operation in europe, there is a clear operational need for eurojust to cooperate with montenegro.
in writing. ‒ i support the conclusion of an agreement between eurojust and montenegro aimed at closer judicial cooperation in the fight against more serious forms of crime such as organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed decision to waive the parliamentary immunity of my colleague robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz. whatever the circumstances, meps must also take responsibility for their actions in road transport. so it's only right that a fellow be punished for speeding.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the request for waiver of the parliamentary immunity of robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz, as i agree that the infringement (excessive speed) defined by the legislation sets a negative example for the member in the member state and potentially casts a bad light on all meps. nor can immunity be invoked if a member is caught in the act of committing a crime. this would set a bad example for european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for waiver of the immunity of robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz. on 13 august 2015 the prosecutor-general of the republic of poland forwarded to the president of parliament a request made by the polish general inspectorate of road traffic to grant authorisation to take legal action against a member of the european parliament, mr robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz, in connection with a speeding offence. in this case, the request for waiver of the immunity of mr iwaszkiewicz has been submitted as a result of an alleged offence consisting of exceeding the speed limit in a built-up area. it appears from the file that mr iwaszkiewicz has not admitted that he was driving the vehicle at the relevant time, nor that he accepts the fine. from the circumstances of the case it appears that the alleged offence and the ensuing prosecution clearly have nothing to do with the position of mr iwaszkiewicz as a member of the european parliament and that there is no evidence of fumus persecutionis. the committee on legal affairs recommended that the european parliament should waive the parliamentary immunity and this is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed decision to waive the parliamentary immunity of my colleague robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz. whatever the circumstances, meps must also take responsibility for their actions in road transport. given that a colleague in the car has a bad leg on several occasions, it is only right that he be sanctioned accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the request for waiver of the parliamentary immunity of robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz, as i agree that the infringement, which is defined by law, sets a negative example for a member in a member state and potentially casts a bad light on all meps.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for waiver of the immunity of robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz. on 13 august 2015 the prosecutor-general of the republic of poland forwarded to the president of parliament a request made by the polish general inspectorate of road traffic to grant authorisation to take legal action against a member of the european parliament, mr robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz, in connection with a speeding offence. in this case, the request for waiver of the immunity of mr iwaszkiewicz has been submitted as a result of an alleged offence consisting of exceeding the speed limit in a built-up area. it appears from the file that mr iwaszkiewicz has not admitted that he was driving the vehicle at the relevant time, nor that he accepts the fine. from the circumstances of the case it appears that the alleged offence and the ensuing prosecution clearly have nothing to do with the position of mr iwaszkiewicz as a member of the european parliament and that there is no evidence of fumus persecutionis. the committee on legal affairs recommended that the european parliament should waive the parliamentary immunity and this is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a european parliament decision requesting the waiver of the immunity of robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz, as the report concluded that the alleged offence and the resulting criminal prosecution were clearly not related to the position of robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz as a member of the european parliament and that there was no evidence of a serious and well-founded suspicion that the case had been initiated with the intention of causing political damage to the member.
in writing. ‒ expressing political views is one of the fundamental rights of a member of any parliament, whether we agree with them or not. i therefore support the decision not to waive the immunity of my colleague mr philippot for his statements in relation to terrorist financing.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the request for waiver of the parliamentary immunity of florian philippot, as i believe that the alleged breach was committed in the course of parliamentary work. expressing personal views in the course of one's work is an act that is not subject to detention, interrogation or judicial proceedings. it is only with protection that members can freely exercise their mandate without fear of prosecution, and i support mr. philippot's immunity not being waived.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the request for waiver of the immunity of florian philippot. in this specific case, a french court has asked for the immunity of mr philippot to be waived for the purposes of criminal proceedings instituted by a country outside the european union; more specifically, mr philippot is accused by the government of a non-member state, namely qatar, of having defamed that country by suggesting, in a radio programme broadcast on 9 january 2015 and in a television programme broadcast on 19 january 2015, that qatar finances terrorism. considering that when they publicly express opinions on the foreign policy of the european union or of non-member states, members of the european parliament are acting within the scope of their official duties, in this particular case the conditions for the waiver of mr philippot’s immunity are not met. the legal affairs committee thus decided not to waive the immunity of mr philippot and this is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i rejected the european parliament's motion for a decision on the request for waiver of immunity of florian philippot, because i agree with the report's findings that there is no justified reason to waive the immunity of the said member in relation to the criminal proceedings for alleged defamation brought before a national court in france at the request of qatar for opinions expressed in the exercise of his parliamentary duties.
in writing. ‒ in support of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of a european platform to strengthen cooperation in preventing and deterring undeclared work, meps have submitted to the european commission a total of 61 amendments to their text, with the aim of improving the text, in particular in the area of proactive policies to facilitate and guide measures to regulate undeclared work, for example through tax breaks, tax reductions and subsidy schemes. since stricter controls alone will not be enough, incentives should also be provided to eliminate it in such a way that employers who are employed illegally will be less likely to opt for an illegal solution, especially in sectors where such practices are most common.
in writing. ‒ undeclared work is a major problem in all eu member states that affects at least 10 % of employment capital. members of the epp group, as a solution, support cooperation between member states and the exchange of best practices in the fight against undeclared work, but not the granting of executive power at eu level to this platform, on a domain which i believe should be kept at member state level.
in writing. ‒ the report refers to the proposal for a decision establishing a european platform to strengthen cooperation in the prevention and deterrence of undeclared work. this is one of the most worrying and complex problems, as it concerns activities which, although legal in nature, are not registered with public authorities or, in the case of virtual self-employment, are incorrectly registered. working underground has very serious negative consequences for many segments. it affects workers' rights and their social rights, as well as the municipal, state and ultimately eu budgets. i welcome the proposed establishment of the platform, but it must be followed by concrete action. i believe that there are many other frameworks in which we can properly combat undeclared work. as such, i can mention an appropriate tax policy which should be stimulating and not push workers and employers into a relationship of black-collar work. i also believe that there is a need to support activities in the field of active employment policy, social policy and, above all, the updating of data, which will allow access to accurate data on the number of people working underground. i agree that the proposed platform could provide a basis for the development of a work programme that would fully meet the urgent need for targeted action, which is why i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european platform to strengthen cooperation in the prevention and deterrence of undeclared work. illegal work is a major problem for the european union as a whole: it threatens the economy, creates unfair competition, distorts the market and, ultimately, threatens the financial stability and social security of the european union. there are many differences between member states as regards the definition of undeclared work, quantities, samples, work and the nature of undeclared work, and measures are needed to take account of all these differences. we need to strengthen cooperation in the fight against undeclared work, which must benefit those economic operators who are doing business honestly and do not use undeclared work.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european platform to strengthen cooperation in the prevention and deterrence of undeclared work, as undeclared work is a problem faced by each member state in its own context. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to grant the aid to the beneficiaries of the aid, in accordance with the principle of proportionality. the objectives of the establishment of the platform are to improve cooperation between member states' law enforcement authorities to prevent and deter undeclared work, to improve the technical capacity of member states to combat cross-border undeclared work and to raise public awareness by exchanging best practices, analyses and opinions. the fight against undeclared work is the primary responsibility of the member states. it remains so, despite the establishment of the platform. governments are those who can mitigate the negative effects, both on the part of employers and on the part of employees, by adopting more appropriate policies. a commitment to reducing the volume of such waste would have positive effects both for the economy and for the social security of people.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that undeclared work is a major problem in europe which needs to be tackled effectively. undeclared work, which accounted for 18.4 % of the eu’s gdp in 2012, is a problem not only because governments miss out on revenue, but also because workers are also less protected. it is conducive to unfair competition and makes countries miss out on taxes and social security contributions, and at the same time puts workers at a disadvantage. this is why i supported the report’s idea to create a european platform to address the issue: this platform could serve to share best practices and examine information, especially when it involves companies operating in more than one eu country.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal for a decision establishing a european platform to strengthen cooperation in the prevention and deterrence of undeclared work. i agree that action is needed to strengthen cooperation at union level to combat undeclared work, which threatens the union's economy and causes unfair competition and market distortions and reduces social and employment protection for workers.
in writing. ‒ mr demesmaeker has produced a comprehensive and very high-quality resolution on the review of the implementation of the eu biodiversity strategy. it warns that we are facing a major challenge and that there is a risk that we will not reach the 2020 targets. we have already failed once with the strategy for 2010, so the commission has prepared a new strategy that is supposed to be more effective. biodiversity is unfortunately under severe pressure all over the world, including in europe. human-induced species extinction, habitat change, pollution, overexploitation, invasive alien species and climate change are the main drivers of biodiversity loss and such ambitious targets need to be supported if we are to ensure the sustainable functioning of key terrestrial ecosystems in the future.
in writing. efforts to conserve biodiversity must be among the priorities of the ec. a quarter of species are more seriously threatened, which not only directly affects the environment but also harms the economy. i therefore voted in favour of the mid-term review report on the ec biodiversity strategy, as it further encourages member states to take action to halt the significant loss of biodiversity and it does so in several segments: under the common agricultural policy, the rural development funds, the constant monitoring of the implementation of the directives.
in writing. ‒ the report refers to the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy issued by the commission in october 2015. the report welcomes this mid-term review and highlights its strategic importance for achieving the eu's biodiversity goals. scientists have already shown that european nature has been in a much worse state without the positive impact of the eu birds and habitats directives, and that well-planned and well-funded efforts are indeed yielding positive results. however, i believe that there is still much room for improvement and that the 2020 targets will not be achieved without significant additional and sustained efforts. the report calls on the commission and the member states to urgently give greater priority to achieving the 2020 targets. i agree that funding, increased public awareness and understanding of and support for biodiversity conservation are also essential in this context. the report also calls for the eu to reduce its footprint on biodiversity worldwide, in line with the principle of policy coordination for development, by keeping it within the ecological limits of ecosystems. i believe that the report reflects well the current state of biodiversity in the eu and contains the necessary warnings and suggestions, which is why i supported it in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy. i share the concern expressed in the report about the continued loss of biodiversity and the finding that the 2020 targets will not be achieved without significant additional and sustained efforts. i think we can all be concerned by the fact that in europe, about a quarter of wildlife species are threatened with extinction and many ecosystems are damaged, causing serious damage to society and the eu economy. as we need to tackle the problem seriously and as soon as possible, i welcome the call from the european commission for a multi-stakeholder approach with a key role and the full involvement of national, regional and local actors in this process.
in writing. ‒ i supported the mid-term review report on the eu biodiversity strategy, as it is very worrying that biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation are among the top 10 risks we will face in the future. given that the strategy has not yet shown any impact, i agree that the eu needs to step up its efforts to prevent biodiversity loss. only better implementation and enforcement of existing legislation, greater inclusion, transfer of good practices and innovative solutions will help to protect and promote nature interventions. as a result, they have provided for the inheritance, well-being, and prosperity of their children and grandchildren.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which contains recommendations in order to meet the objectives included in the eu's biodiversity strategy 2010-2020. i voted in favour because the mid-term review of this strategy shows that the union is about to seriously fail in achieving its biodiversity targets if no improvements are made. biodiversity losses have been increasing at an alarming pace, with more than three quarters of the important natural habitats being in an unfavourable state and a quarter of all species threatened with extinction. i think it is important to step up efforts in the protection of our biodiversity by strengthening and better implementing the ambitious eu legislations instead of watering them down. i am positive because in cases where these laws have been enforced they have had tremendous results: the eu birds and habitats directives, for example, has brought back threatened birds and wildlife from the brink of extinction.
in writing. ‒ the conservation of biodiversity has an important role to play in the sustainable development goals. but current indicators point to a loss of biodiversity. i therefore supported the report, which makes the reasoned conclusion that better implementation and enforcement of existing legislation is essential for progress in this area. this requires the constructive involvement of policy makers at all levels. attention should be drawn to the socio-economic value of biodiversity and the consequences of its loss on health, well-being and prosperity.
respected. more and more europeans are afraid of the migrant crisis. up to 2000 asylum seekers enter the union every day. what happens when spring comes? what approach do we want to take to the transit route through the politically unstable and economically very paralysed countries of the western balkans, via slovenia and beyond? of the five hotspots in greece, only one is currently operational. there's a resettlement and repatriation plan in place, an action plan with turkey. it is high time that these policies were put into effect. even if the geneva conference brings a solution to syria, we cannot expect peace tomorrow. the latest shocking report from europol finds that it is unclear where the 10,000 unaccompanied children have gone. half of them have been lost in italy, at least 10,000 in sweden. the speculation of where and how many of them might end up is terrifying. these are children and we need to act now. the union is not in control of the migration crisis. it's not the numbers. we are talking about two and a half million refugees in a union of 500 million people. it's not that it's unmanageable, but someone in the institutions has to take political leadership. when slovenia, my country, joined schengen, it, like a number of other countries, saw the new face of europe - a europe that opened up in the most visible way. and now this europe is closing itself in the most shameful, base way with national egos.
i think we should not underestimate the awareness of people who come to europe as refugees, migrants, asylum seekers. they know they're no longer welcome here. that here, also today in the european parliament, we are having more discussions about how to deter, contain, contain and reject them. simply put, there are too many to be accepted broadly, in line with the ethics and values that we refer to in such speeches. what will happen to us in europe was not thought of when we approved and participated in the wars that drove these people from their homes and prepared them to humiliate themselves with their families on our roads and borders today, to die on overturned boats. this was not considered when we preferred violent intervention to political and diplomatic solutions. we've heard a lot of emotional speeches here today, a lot of anger at our helplessness. i'm not going to be a part of this. i would just like to stress that at this moment, all of us - high representative mogherini and all european governments - through our own fault and miscalculation, we must firmly and sincerely support the peace talks in syria, which are the only way to restore confidence that refugees will have a place to return to when the time comes. and then we'll have to find political solutions for other countries from which people are fleeing to us in europe.
i would like to make four brief comments. firstly, the issue of violence against refugees is relevant. they're vulnerable children, first and foremost. we heard that as many as 10,000 children have disappeared from european soil. europol anticipates that they are abducted or bought by organised crime and used for sexual slavery or exploitative work. on the other hand, there is at least one other vulnerable group that we should be concerned about, and that is the european girls, and we know why. the member states are therefore faced with the important question of how to fill the security vacuum in which they have been floating for two decades. secondly, turkey. the eu must engage with turkey in a credible and cautious way to stem the tide of migration, but we cannot rely 100% on them or on others. we must rely on ourselves first, and then on collective action. thirdly, the schengen area. this is one of the european union's greatest achievements. today, the european union is being put to the test. thank god the european union has offered at least part of the solution with the border and coast guard, which gives us new powers to protect our external borders. and fourthly, regardless of the future status of greece, the european union must be saved at any cost. so we need to stop or contain the migration wave as a matter of urgency. in this respect, it should adopt alternative measures. if greece cannot do this, then let us give aid to albania, macedonia and bulgaria. and finally, we must start returning economic migrants immediately.
women in the european union are paid on average less than men. we are at greater risk of poverty in old age. we're much more burdened with household chores. in the labour market, we often see that women are made to accept the condition that they will not have children for a few years. women with more young children have a harder time finding work because of the potential for more absences from work due to the children's illness. we are in a very small minority in leadership positions, both economically and politically. no woman has ever presided over the european commission, and only two of the 25 presidents of the european parliament have been women. to change this, we need political commitment at the highest level, but instead of waiting for the commission's communication on a strategy for gender equality and women's rights after 2015, we are looking at a commission staff working document. in doing so, the president of the commission sent a message that the issue of gender equality was a minor issue, given his statement that the commission would be more ambitious on major issues and more modest and reserved on minor issues.
mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the european union in recent years we have seen an increase in chronic diseases, including hormone-related cancers, breast cancer in women and prostate and testicular cancers in men, obesity, diabetes and cardiovascular diseases, as well as reproductive problems: miscarriages, reduced fertility and infertility. chemicals such as bpa and pbde and pesticides, especially when combined, are increasingly being identified as playing an important role. endocrine disruptors have a high potential for harmful or irreversible effects, with an estimated annual cost of the disease of around eur 150 billion. therefore, there is an urgent need to adopt measures to protect health, especially for vulnerable groups such as pregnant women, infants, children and adolescents. we know enough to do something about it. if there is no will to act, there is an interest behind it, even if it is wrapped in the unity of science. protecting citizens from health risks is one of the three strategic objectives of the european union's health policy. in the field of health, where we should be closer to the citizen, therefore, only consistent action by the commission is necessary and admissible. the hormone disruptors should be placed in the prevention center.
i want britain to stay in the union, but i have to be critical. the president of the european council, mr tusk, explicitly stresses that the proposals largely address british demands, but that they do not transgress the principles on which the union is founded. and from what i understand, that's exactly what's going on. by changing the law, which will allow the state to use brake mechanisms and prevent workers from other countries from accessing social transfers, it will legalize discrimination and give the green light for different concessions to different countries. because if we do that in the case of britain and foreign workers, tomorrow we will be forced to give a discount to bulgaria for example in enforcing environmental policy measures or germany in food safety standards. what will happen in the case of the uk with the increasing number of migrants? how quickly will the internal market be threatened and how quickly will fundamental human rights be violated? these are the principles on which the union operates. i sincerely wish britain to remain in the union, but not to indulge in any way the british picky appetite. the uk already has quite a few exceptional concessions from schengen to the budgetary rebate. the latter alone makes my country pay into the budget at least 30 million euros more each year, which could be spent, for example, on solving the migrant crisis. what if we don't meet cameron's wishes with this? how far are we willing to go to indulge our whims just to keep our country in the union? are we really prepared to pay any price? we all know that marriage and family relationships can only be patched if they are based on a relationship of equality, not of elimination. in the long run, leaving for the sake of peace can have no other consequences than the total breakdown of the relationship.
winston churchill of britain was among the first to articulate the vision of a united europe. i have never doubted the british common sense, so i know that the referendum decision will be reasonable and theirs alone. it would be bad if we forced the british to make a decision or brainwashed them. i believe they will make a decision based on a full and informed understanding of the fact that leaving would be bad for them and bad for us. in that case, only third parties would benefit those who do not wish either the european union or the united kingdom well. however, the union must make its position clear. that's what president tusk did yesterday. the deal has to be fair. not because of the eu's structures as such, but because of the 28 member states. it seems to me that it is wise to have a strong eu... it is important that the eu is strong, stress-resistant and even more flexible. the emergency brake instrument also goes in that direction if there is a threat of a breakdown of a system, for example a social one. in short, the european union needs innovative solutions to make it work better, even if this requires a change in the treaty. but the mega-deal with the uk must remain unique. it should not trigger a domino effect and possible further blackmail by member states.
in writing. ‒ in the republic of moldova too, meps, with the support of the european parliament, have enabled the instrument necessary for the application of the bilateral safeguard clause and the avoidance mechanism to be introduced and incorporated into eu internal legislation. the european parliament wants to harmonise the text of the regulation with that of the eu-moldova association agreement by making a few amendments. the commission shall inform the european parliament and the council of the outcome of the consultations. given that it's more of a technical and explanatory change, my support was not in question.
in writing. most trade agreements with the eu include a bilateral safeguard clause allowing for the suspension of preferences in the event that their application would lead to an unexpected and substantial increase in imports that could cause economic damage to the domestic industry of the importing party (i.e. moldova). simply put, this means that further tariff liberalisation can be suspended or the mip can be reintroduced. the said instrument also contains an agreement between the eu and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part. in addition, the agreement contains a mechanism to prevent circumvention, which allows the reintroduction of the most-favoured-nation tariff rate in the event that imports of certain agricultural products from moldova exceed a certain threshold without adequate justification of their exact origin. the effective implementation of these instruments requires the adoption of a regulation by the ep and the council in eu internal law. the commission proposal, currently under consideration, also allows for the practical implementation of the relevant provisions of the eu-moldova association agreement approved by the ep in november 2015. i consider that the adoption of the proposed regulation is necessary to implement the obligations of moldova under the agreement and to protect eu producers adequately, where appropriate. i voted for the report because of what it said.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation of the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism providing for the temporary abandonment of tariff preferences provided for in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part. as with other trade agreements concluded by the eu, we need a bilateral safeguard clause in the association agreement with moldova. this will reduce the potential economic damage to the domestic industry in the event of an unexpected and substantial increase in imports. i also welcome the fact that the draft report provides that the eu must consult the moldovan authorities before the safeguard measure is finally imposed.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation of the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism providing for the temporary abandonment of tariff preferences provided for in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part, as i consider these to be necessary instruments with which to regulate possible excesses of imports or exports which could have a negative impact on the economy of a member state or of countries trading with it. the proposal, which is more technical in nature, will thus allow moldova to start implementing the obligations arising from the protection agreement already adopted.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council, which concerns the incorporation in the european union law of the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism foreseen in the eu-moldova association agreement. the association agreement with moldova, like the majority of eu trade agreements with third countries, includes a bilateral safeguard clause. by this instrument preferences can be temporarily suspended in case their application would result in an unexpected and significant increase of imports causing economic damage to the domestic industry of the importing party (i.e. it is possible to either suspend the further tariff liberalization or reintroduce the mfn customs duty rate). furthermore, this agreement also includes a so-called anti-circumvention mechanism, which provides for the possibility to reintroduce the mfn customs duty rate when imports of certain agricultural goods from moldova exceed a given threshold without due justification of their exact origin. an implementing regulation of the european parliament and of the council is in this case necessary, in order to put in place in the eu’s internal legislation the necessary instrument to be able to apply the bilateral safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on an association trade agreement with moldova, which includes a bilateral safeguard clause that may be introduced when a product originating in the republic of moldova is imported into the union in such increased quantities, in absolute terms or relative to union production, as a result of the reduction or elimination of customs duties on that product, that it causes serious injury or threatens to cause serious injury to the union industry. i support the measure in question as it is necessary to incorporate in union legislation instruments to protect the union market and its producers where necessary.
in writing. ‒ by supporting the proposed regulation, meps have enabled the relevant provisions of the eu-georgia association agreement, adopted by the european parliament last year, to be implemented in practice. the adoption of the proposed regulation is necessary to implement georgia's obligations under the provisions of the agreement designed to prevent circumvention in order to protect eu producers where necessary. the agreement, through the so-called avoidance mechanism, allows the reintroduction of the mfn tariff rate when imports of certain agricultural products from georgia exceed a certain threshold without adequate justification of their exact origin.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation of an anti-circumvention mechanism allowing for the temporary abandonment of tariff preferences provided for in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part. i welcome the amendment which harmonises the text of the regulation with that of the eu-georgia association agreement. in particular, it requires the commission to explicitly mention in its report the use of the anti-circumvention mechanism, which allows the reintroduction of the most-favoured-nation tariff rate when imports of certain agricultural products from georgia exceed a certain threshold without adequate justification of their exact origin.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation of the anti-circumvention mechanism allowing for the temporary abandonment of tariff preferences provided for in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part, as i consider that this is an instrument that can regulate and protect the member states that cooperate with georgia in the field of imports of agricultural products. the proposal, which is more technical in nature, will thus allow georgia to start implementing the obligations arising from the protection agreement already adopted. at the same time, i support the proposal as it will contribute to greater transparency and parliamentary scrutiny of the implementation of the common commercial policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council, which concerns the incorporation in the european union law of the anti-circumvention mechanism foreseen in the eu-georgia association agreement. the association agreement with georgia includes a so-called anti-circumvention mechanism, which provides for the possibility to reintroduce the mfn customs duty rate when imports of certain agricultural goods from georgia exceed a given threshold without due justification of their exact origin. an implementing regulation of the european parliament and of the council is in this case necessary, in order to put in place in the eu’s internal legislation the necessary instrument to be able to apply the anti-circumvention mechanism. it is also worthwhile to note that this proposal for an implementing regulation is directly derived from the text of the agreement negotiated with georgia, which means that neither a separate consultation with interested parties nor any impact assessment are necessary.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on the proposal for a regulation on the implementation of the anti-circumvention mechanism, as it is necessary for the implementation of the relevant provisions of the eu-georgia association agreement and the mechanism will protect eu producers where necessary.
in writing. ‒ in europe, there are some 26 million blind and partially sighted people who are in many ways unable to live a normal life. normal in that sense, as we all know, as we all know, as we all know, as we all know, as we all know, as we all know, as we all know, as we all know, as we all know, as we all know, as we all know, as we all know, as we all know, as we all know, as we all know, as we all know, as we all know, as we all know, as we all know. the marrakesh treaty, signed by eu member states in 2014, is one of the important steps towards increasing access to books for the blind and visually impaired. unfortunately, too many countries have not yet ratified the treaty, which means that it cannot enter into force. this means that the rights of the blind and visually impaired continue to be violated, rights that we take for granted. one of the fundamental rights is the right to education. the fact that only 5% of printed books are available in formats that are understandable to blind and partially sighted people should serve as a reminder that we are putting more pressure on member states that have not yet ratified these treaties. for all these reasons, i also supported the motion for a resolution.
in writing. i supported the resolution for the ratification of the marrakesh treaty in the light of the petitions received, in particular petition no 924/2011, because i want the ec to have equal opportunities for the blind and visually impaired. the convention represents a step forward in increasing equality for the blind and visually impaired and aims to raise the percentage of adapted books published above 5%.
in writing. ‒ according to the 2010 world health organisation estimates, there are 2.55 million blind and 23.800.000 visually impaired people in europe, which means a total of 26.350.000 blind and visually impaired eu citizens. despite such a large number, only 5% of all published books are accessible to blind and visually impaired people in developed countries, and less than 1% in developing countries. in april 2014, the eu and its member states signed the marrakesh treaty, thereby committing themselves politically to its ratification. the resolution expresses deep indignation at the fact that seven eu member states have formed a minority bloc which is blocking the process of ratification of the marrakesh treaty. it therefore calls on the council and the member states to accelerate the ratification process without requiring prior review of the eu legal framework or a ruling by the court of justice of the eu. i believe that the motion for a resolution under consideration is an important reminder that the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, to which the eu and the member states are signatories, provides for the right of persons with disabilities to education without discrimination and on the basis of equal opportunities. however, that convention also ensures that laws on the protection of intellectual property do not unreasonably or discriminatoryally impede access of persons with disabilities to cultural materials. i agree that the member states must ratify the marrakesh treaty as soon as possible, which is why i supported the motion for a resolution in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the ratification of the marrakesh treaty on the basis of the petitions received, in particular petition 924/2011. more than two years after the signature of the marrakesh treaty, some member states have not yet ratified it. i believe that the process of ratifying the marrakesh treaty, which facilitates access to literary works for people with reading difficulties, should be accelerated. the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities also provides for the right of persons with disabilities to education without discrimination and on the basis of equal opportunities. because it is estimated that only 5% of all published books are available in accessible formats to blind and visually impaired people in developed countries, and only 1% in developing countries. in slovenia, for example, the proportion of printed books accessible to blind and partially sighted people is only one to two percent, a very worrying figure.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 216 (2) of the rules of procedure on the ratification of the marrakesh treaty on the basis of the petitions received, in particular petition 924/2011, as i believe that in today's era of technological progress, it is necessary to give people with disabilities such as low vision and blindness (who, according to the world health organisation, number some 26 350 000 in europe) equal access to education as others. the fact that only 5% of all published books are available in accessible formats in developed countries today, and even less in developing countries, is truly worrying. that is why i support the call for the seven member states to speed up the process of ratification of the marrakesh treaty, which they are delaying.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution urging eu member states to accelerate the ratification of the marrakesh treaty. the marrakech treaty adopted in summer 2013 allows for literature adapted for visually impaired persons to be freely used across borders without having to take copyright rules or other trade restrictions into consideration. the problem is that ratification of the treaty is still blocked by a minority of eu member states and, therefore, the agreement has not yet entered into force in the eu. the lack of commitment by eu governments to reach an agreement on the treaty is a clear violation of the right to easily accessible information, which is an important part of the un convention on rights for persons with disabilities. i believe that after four years it is time to find a political solution in support of blind and visually impaired persons’ right to accessible literature.
in writing. ‒ i support the european parliament's resolution on the ratification of the marrakesh treaty on facilitating access to published works for blind and partially sighted persons and persons with other reading disabilities. the eu and its member states are also signatories to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, which obliges them, inter alia, to ensure that persons with disabilities have the right to education without discrimination and on the basis of equal opportunities, and that laws protecting intellectual property do not unreasonably or discriminatoryly restrict access to cultural materials by persons with disabilities. only 5% of all published books are available in accessible formats to blind and partially sighted people in developed countries, and less than 1% in developing countries. it is therefore necessary to take all appropriate measures for the ratification and implementation of the marrakesh treaty as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed objection to the authorisation of gm soybean mst-fgø72-2, as i myself am very reluctant to cultivate gmos as long as there is the least risk to human health. i myself am a proponent of the precautionary principle for gmos, and we must also respect the majority of european citizens who are against the use of gmos in europe. i am aware that soybeans are one of the least produced raw materials in europe. almost all of it is imported from third countries, where they produce mostly gmo soy. but perhaps europe could become more attractive by producing soybeans without gmos, thereby increasing its own production of this crop and reducing its dependence on external markets. it would also take into account the wishes and expectations of our citizens.
in writing. the commission's authorisation of the import and use of three gm soybeans for food purposes does not provide sufficient protection for the health of european citizens, who are largely opposed to gmos, and i therefore supported the objection to the enforcement of the authorisation. the fg72 gm soybean is immune to the herbicide glyphosate used in cultivation and, according to the findings of the who specialised agency, is most likely to be carcinogenic to animals and also to humans.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the draft commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified soybean fg72. i do not agree with the motion for a resolution calling on the commission to withdraw the implementing decision on the ground that it is incompatible with union law. we certainly cannot determine whether the decision is in conformity with union law in the resolution, as we have no basis for doing so. research on genetically modified organisms has been extensive in the past, and the results of many have been very mixed, raising doubts about the validity of the research.
in writing. ‒ motion for a resolution on the objection under rule 106 of the rules of procedure: i supported the authorisation of genetically modified soybean fg72 as i believe that our priority in the area of genetically modified food and feed is to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and the environment. given that this substance is classified as carcinogenic to humans, it is important to highlight this and thus protect the interests of consumers, the population of the union, and to strengthen their confidence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection concerning the genetically modified soybean fg72 because i believe that the commission should not authorise the use of glyphosate-tolerant gm soybeans in food and feed, specifically for two reasons: the first reason is that glyphosate, a herbicide, was classified as ‘probably carcinogenic’ to humans on 20 march 2015 by the world health organization’s cancer agency. the second reason is that currently, gmos are being authorised in the eu without the support of member states: in fact, every gm authorisation decision has so far been taken by the commission without the support of a qualified majority of member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the draft commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified soybean fg72. i agree that we must ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and protection, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed. however, the fact that every genetically modified organism is not harmful requires that decisions on the possible authorisation of the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified enzymes be taken on the basis of independent and credible studies on potential adverse effects.
in writing. ‒ as in the previous point, i also supported this objection, which concerns the rejection of the european commission's decision to authorise the placing on the market of products containing gmos. that objection concerns genetically modified soybean mon-877ø8-9 × mon-89788-1 submitted by monsanto europe for marketing authorisation. as a proponent of the precautionary principle in gmos, i believe that the placing on the market of such products should be extremely conservative, as we do not yet know all the consequences for human health that may result from the consumption of products produced from gmos. we also have to take into account the wishes of people who, for the most part, do not want to grow gmos in europe. as the eu imports the vast majority of soybeans containing gmos, it would be more appropriate to focus on supporting the production of non-gm soybeans.
in writing. the commission's authorisation of the import and use of three gm soybeans for food purposes does not provide sufficient protection for the health of european citizens, who are largely opposed to gmos, and i therefore supported the objection to the enforcement of the authorisation. gs soybean of type mon 87708 × mon 89788 is immune to the herbicide glyphosate used in cultivation and is considered by the who specialized agency to be a probable carcinogen for animals as well as for humans.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the draft commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified soybean mon 87708 × mon 89788. i cannot support the proposal that the commission withdraw the implementing decision. the fact that the standing committee has not delivered an opinion on this decision cannot be an argument for the withdrawal of the commission implementing decision. i also believe that in the field of genetically modified organisms, we need a debate based on scientific data and evidence, and that is the only way to demonstrate the credibility of the argument.
in writing. ‒ motion for a resolution on the objection under rule 106 of the rules of procedure: i support the authorisation of genetically modified soybean mon 87708 × mon 89788, as i believe that our priority in the area of genetically modified food and feed is to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and the environment. given that this substance is classified as carcinogenic to humans, it is important to be particularly careful to highlight this and thus protect the interests of consumers, the population of the union, and to strengthen their confidence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection concerning the genetically modified soybean mon 87708 x mon 89788 because i believe that the commission should not authorise the use of glyphosate-tolerant gm soybeans in food and feed, specifically for two reasons: the first reason is that glyphosate, a herbicide, was classified as ‘probably carcinogenic’ to humans on 20 march 2015 by the world health organization’s cancer agency. the second reason is that currently gmos are being authorised in the eu without the support of member states: in fact, every gm authorisation decision has so far been taken by the commission without the support of a qualified majority of member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the draft commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified soybean mon 87708 × mon 89788 (mon-877ø8-9 × mon-89788-1). in any event, we must ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and protection, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed. however, there is no consistent evidence in scientific studies of the potential toxicity and allergenicity of the genetically modified enzymes.
in writing. - i supported this objection for the same reasons as the previous two. i myself am a proponent of the precautionary principle in relation to gmos, and i think it is completely unnecessary to rush such a sensitive matter as the registration of gm soybeans through the procedure. blaming the institutions and shifting responsibility from one to the other is also unproductive. we are at a delicate moment when the institutions should have more respect for each other and, above all, for the will of the people who are largely against the use of gmos in europe.
in writing. the commission's authorisation of the import and use of three gm soybeans for food purposes does not provide sufficient protection for the health of european citizens, who are largely opposed to gmos, and i therefore supported the objection to the enforcement of the authorisation. gs soybean of type mon 87705 × mon 89788 is immune to the herbicide glyphosate used in cultivation and is considered by the who specialized agency to be a probable carcinogen for animals as well as for humans.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the draft commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified soybean mon 87705 × mon 89788. i understand the reservations expressed in the resolution, but i do not, however, consider that there is any need for the commission to withdraw the draft implementing decision, which is allegedly incompatible with union law. i believe that there is a lack of research on genetically modified organisms and their health and environmental impacts, and that those that do exist are unreliable and inconsistent. we need clear and unambiguous results based solely on science.
in writing. ‒ motion for a resolution on the objection under rule 106 of the rules of procedure: i support the authorisation of genetically modified soybean mon 87705 × mon 89788 as our priority in the area of genetically modified food and feed is to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and the environment. given that this substance is classified as carcinogenic to humans, it is important to pay particular attention to the commission's presentation of a new legislative proposal, as this is the only way to protect the interests of consumers, the inhabitants of the union, and to strengthen their confidence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection concerning the genetically modified soybean mon 87705 x mon 89788 because i believe that the commission should not authorise the use of glyphosate-tolerant gm soybeans in food and feed, specifically for two reasons: the first reason is that glyphosate, a herbicide, was classified as ‘probably carcinogenic’ to humans on 20 march 2015 by the world health organization’s cancer agency. the second reason is that currently gmos are being authorised in the eu without the support of member states: in fact, every gm authorisation decision has so far been taken by the commission without the support of a qualified majority of member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the draft commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified soybean mon 87705 x mon 89788. i agree that we must ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and protection, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed. however, for the efficient and competitive functioning of the internal market, decisions on the possible authorisation of the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified enzymes should be taken on the basis of independent and consistent research on the potential adverse effects of genetically modified organisms.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the envi committee's objection to the new emissions legislation package being brought back to baseline. it's true that the measurement methodology has been inadequate in the past, and the automotive industry has adapted to it, some of them even with fraud, which i strongly condemn. but we're where we are now, and we have to learn from our mistakes. the commission proposal thus provides for a new measurement methodology which will allow us to expect real results and a reduction in emissions in the coming years. but unfortunately, this is not something that can be done overnight, we cannot do it tomorrow, and we need to show some understanding also for those who employ 12 million citizens in the eu through the automotive industry. i would expect the commission to give a more precise timetable for how we will reduce the limits over the years, and i support the idea that emissions will no longer be reduced on paper but in practice in the environment. the environmental aspect is very important, but people and their jobs are also important, and we need to change this type of legislation by understanding and taking both aspects into account.
in writing. i voted against the objection on emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles (euro 6), which would delay the process of finding a solution to reduce emissions. a vote against will enable us to take the necessary action immediately and thus contribute to reducing the emission values of vehicles measured under normal conditions of use.
in writing. ‒ air pollution causes more than 430,000 premature deaths in the eu each year. the estimated value of the costs of the health effects of pollution is eur 940 billion per year. emissions from diesel vehicles in urban areas in europe are one of the main sources of nitrogen oxides. these are among the main air pollutants that cause lung cancer, asthma, and many other respiratory diseases, as well as environmental degradation, among others. the motion for a resolution concerns a draft commission regulation amending regulation (ec) no 692/2008 as regards emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles (euro 6). in accordance with the draft measure, manufacturers should ensure that the emissions generated during type approval and throughout the life of the vehicle do not exceed the limit values in real-life emission testing. the motion for a resolution states that the draft commission regulation in question would in fact constitute a general derogation from the applicable emission limit values and is therefore not in line with eu law. i agree that the draft regulation is inappropriate and should be withdrawn. the new draft regulation, which should be submitted by 1 april 2016, should however include a real-world test to ensure the effectiveness of the emission control systems and to enable vehicles to comply with regulation (ec) no 715/2007. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because of what you have described.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the draft commission regulation amending the regulation on emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles. about 400,000 people die each year from air pollution. in many municipalities and cities, the relevant authorities have difficulty implementing clean air measures. clean air is a value of the european union. so we have to start at the source of harmful substances, and that certainly includes vehicles. voting in favour of the objection to the act adopted by the commission would significantly delay the implementation of the tests and it would therefore be irresponsible, both for the environment and for the automotive sector, to indefinitely delay the implementation of these tests. we want to strike a balance between protecting the health of our citizens and preserving the future of the european automotive industry.
in writing. ‒ i rejected the motion for a resolution on the objection under rule 106 concerning emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles (euro 6). i strongly support the need to achieve eu air quality objectives. this is why there is a need for sustained efforts to reduce vehicle emissions, to set standards and to strengthen controls in this area. i support progress and measuring emissions while driving, because only this will show real results. but at present, the results are based on laboratory measurements, which are not realistic. the motion for a resolution is superficial, but i think it could be refined further and thus actually help to improve air quality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection because i am against the plan to temporarily raise the nox emissions limits for diesel cars. the recent volkswagen scandal has shown how car manufacturers produce vehicles which pollute way more than they declare, and i believe that this practice has to be put to an end as quickly as possible. this is why i think that temporarily raising the emissions limits does not follow a clear, reasonable logic. nevertheless, this objection was rejected as the eu commission has promised a review clause and tabled a long-term legislative proposal to revamp the eu car approval regime. i sincerely hope that the commission will effectively tackle this issue in a reasonable timeframe.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the european parliament's resolution because i believe that the draft regulation is not yet complete and would not contribute to a substantial reduction in air pollution. we need concrete measures, such as better implementation of current legislation and effective enforcement, rather than another political gesture.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur, ms reding, has produced a good and balanced report on a sensitive subject such as the tisa agreement. with it, parliament sent a clear message to the negotiators about what to look out for, and we demanded full transparency in the negotiations. telecommunications, transport, infrastructure services, they represent a good part of the global economy, and the world is also rapidly digitizing. twenty-three wto members are involved in the negotiations. the eu, as one of them, has much to gain from the agreement, provided that the negotiators pay sufficient attention to the most sensitive areas. i myself have focused on workers' rights and the prevention of social dumping, the maintenance of a high level of consumer rights, the protection of personal data and, of course, most importantly, public services. the latter must remain 'open' to all and not be left entirely to market forces, since it can quickly happen that the weakest sections of the population are the ones who are short-changed. i hear a lot of general opposition to the agreement these days, mainly from an ideological point of view, even though the negotiations are still actively underway. but the world is moving forward, and we can either ride this train of progress and cooperate in it with our proposals and practices, or we can be left behind. the eu as an economic superpower cannot afford to do this, and i have therefore supported the recommendations to the negotiators. but i will be watching developments closely before i decide what my final support for the agreement will be.
in writing. ‒ tisa will create fairer trade rules in the service sector and the ep is committed to giving clear understanding to negotiators on how to apply the mandate. it is clear that the eu has the biggest service sector and that tisa is necessary to upgrade previous agreements multilaterally and propel job creation in this sector, also adapting to the new opportunities technology has brought to the sector. however, i want to clearly state that tisa should contain no lazy compromises regarding the protection of our european public services, education and culture. otherwise, i will vote against, once the agreement is on the table for approval and ratification.
in writing. ‒ the ep plays a key role in the eu's trade policy. he has the right to express his views throughout the procedure, which allows him to influence its course. the ep also calls for the eu to be able to take action to prevent the spread of the virus, and for the eu to be able to take action to prevent the spread of the virus. major concerns within the framework of this agreement arise in relation to certain areas of the subject matter of the negotiations on trade in services. i agree that public and cultural services, fundamental rights to data protection and fair working conditions, and the right to regulation cannot be negotiated and must necessarily be excluded from the scope of the agreement. i believe that the negotiations on the trade in services agreement (tisa) should result in effective international rules, not inferior domestic rules. the report does not directly refer to the (non) support for the tisa agreement, but is intended primarily to make proposals to the commission on the way forward in the negotiations on the drafting of the agreement itself. the amendment to ensure that the proposals put forward by the ep are taken into account and the amendment to give the council the right to review the implementation of its mandate were not adopted in plenary, and i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report with the european parliament's recommendations to the commission for the negotiation of the trade in services agreement (tisa). i support the clear guidance given by the european parliament to the negotiators on tisa, which i believe is balanced. it brings many benefits to large and small and medium-sized enterprises, and also provides for the rights of workers. there is a lot of misinformation on the part of the opponents of the agreement about public services such as public health, safety and the environment, and i support that, as is also very clearly stated in the european parliament's recommendations to the commission.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report with the european parliament's recommendations to the commission for the negotiation of a trade in services agreement (tisa) as i believe that such cooperation is important, necessary and beneficial. the tisa, which is negotiated between 52 countries, representing a third of the world trade organisation, will facilitate the exchange of services and create more jobs. the agreement will bring benefits to consumers, more opportunities for smes and a boost to the european economy as a whole. but by joining other large countries in the future, we could somehow achieve not only benefits and lower prices for consumers, but also higher standards. this will not be an agreement that creates new barriers, but an agreement that breaks them down.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i fully share the recommendations to the commission contained in the text as regards the negotiations for the trade in services agreement (tisa). one of the main issues is ensuring the protection of eu firms from unfair competition abroad, in relation to which we are recommending eu negotiators ensure: 1) reciprocity in market opening, as services in the eu are already more open to foreign competition than those of its partners; 2) curbs on third countries’ restrictive practices against eu firms, such as forced data localisation or foreign equity caps; and 3) less red tape for smes, which lack the financial and human resources needed to navigate international trade rules. likewise, i agree with the ‘red lines’ that are being set out in our recommendations, specifically the areas that should be excluded from negotiations, such as: 1) eu public services, like education, health, social services, social security systems and audiovisual services; and 2) eu citizens’ data protection, which must be up to current and future standards. also, the eu should agree to accept only highly-skilled foreign workers, on contracts and for a strictly limited period of time.
in writing. ‒ i support the recommendations on the negotiations for a trade in services agreement (tisa) as they reflect the eu's values, principles and interests. it is in the eu's vital interest to protect consumer rights, data protection and the right to privacy, and to improve social and environmental standards, including at the level of international agreements.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the motion for a resolution because i think the european commission is sufficiently active in ensuring gender equality and women's rights. the form, not the content, was the focus of the resolution's drafters. the motion for a resolution which we in the european people's party drew up and which was rejected concerned the implementation of the commission working document on the empowerment of women and also recognised the commission's progress in this area. i think we need to take an operational approach to this. a strategy as a dead letter on paper can mean much less than a concrete working document with clearly defined operational objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on a new strategy for gender equality and women's rights after 2015. women in the eu earn on average less than men, are at greater risk of poverty in old age, and have a much higher burden of household chores. in the labour market, we still often see women being conditioned before entering into employment to not have children for a few years. to change this, we need political commitment at the highest level. but instead of the commission's communication on a strategy for gender equality and women's rights after 2015, we have before us a working document from the commission's services. in doing so, the president of the commission sent a message that the issue of gender equality was a minor issue, given his statement that the commission would be more ambitious on major issues and more modest and reserved on minor issues. the post-2015 strategy for gender equality and women's rights will have a lot to do.
in writing. ‒ motion for a resolution on the question for oral answer b8-0103/2016 pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure on a new strategy for women's rights and gender equality in europe after 2015 i rejected as there were a number of key points for the epp political group which unfortunately were not voted on. among other things, it also raised issues of member states' competence and proposals for new legislation. i think we must first implement everything that is in the existing guidelines and commitments. with new proposals and promises, we're not going to make a real difference. we have to do everything we've set out to do, but unfortunately, it's not happening.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because with this text we urge the commission to table a communication on a new strategy for gender equality and women’s rights 2016-2020 as soon as possible, which should address gender equality issues in line with the international agenda and deliver on its political commitments. while i, along other meps, believe that the commission has a clear responsibility to launch policies on equality between women and men and to address important issues such as violence against women, the gender pay gap, and the balance between personal and working life, so far it has only presented a staff working document, which has no interinstitutional value, on a ‘strategic engagement for gender equality 2016-2019’. what we need is a proper commission communication that includes concrete benchmarks and a dedicated budget, in the framework of a new strategy which should provide new impetus and deliver concrete action to strengthen women’s rights and promote gender equality.
in writing. ‒ gender equality as a strategic objective is essential to achieve the overall objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for growth, employment and social inclusion. i did not support the new post-2015 strategies for women's rights and gender equality because i believe that the guidelines set are too low ambition and will not lead to concrete actions to strengthen women's rights and promote gender equality. this question deserves more careful attention and consideration than the political act in question.
on behalf of the s&d group. the progress made by serbia in the past year, culminating in the opening of the first two chapters on financial control and the normalisation of relations between belgrade and pristina, speaks of the country's determination to tackle the implementation of reforms with courage and toughness. the resolution welcomes this, and calls for chapters 23 and 24 crucial for the reform of serbian society to be opened as soon as possible. based on the experience of my country, slovenia, i can say that it is important to maintain the dynamic and the pace of the negotiations. i therefore strongly hope that the early parliamentary elections will not affect the speed of implementation of the urgently needed reforms. serbia needs a unified and clear position on the european union, the direction it is going in, excellent professionals, motivated public officials and the will of all citizens to achieve the common goal of a modern and economically successful country that plays an important role in the western balkans region. serbia does not need politicization of political fields and putting selfish political interests before the interests of society. the responsibility to the citizens will be borne by the leaders themselves. who is responsible for the state of the serbian media? as a former journalist, i cannot ignore the events that marked the end of last year in serbia. the minister's inappropriate statement about female journalists "easily kneeling" was just adding fuel to the fire. it has sparked a protest by journalists demanding more decent working conditions. i'm concerned about the state of the media in serbia. and that is not the future i allow serbia to have. we must ensure that young people have the best possible future and prevent mass emigration. in slovenia, we will pay particular attention to this in our foreign policy activities. because if the young lose hope, serbia has lost its future. and no one wants that.
on behalf of the alde group. i am pleased to note that in the alde group we support serbia and the successful work it has done in meeting the conditions and harmonising the standards that the candidate countries are setting towards the european union. i would like to thank the rapporteur, david mcallister, for a very well-written document and for his cooperation with the shadow rapporteurs. keep in mind that we assess each of the western balkan countries that want to join the european union on the basis of its concrete achievements, and their progress is also a contribution to the common european perspective. based on the principle that the rule of law is the foundation of the european union's enlargement policy, and when we note that serbia has made progress in the area of judicial reform, we cannot ignore the fact that there is too much political involvement in this area. we also see political interference in the media. based on the rich traditions of serbian journalism and culture, it would be expected that all political actors in the country would be interested in media freedom, diversity and that the media scene would not be in the function of promoting any kind of power. civil society must be, more than it is now, recognized and accepted as a creative part of democratic processes and not something over which the power can shake its discontent and desire for domination. we expect serbia to align its foreign and security policy priorities with the european union, as serbia has no alternative worth considering for integration into the european union and for a common security policy. i welcome the continued progress in the process of normalising relations with kosovo, the success of which undoubtedly depends on both sides. it is important that serbia deepen its democracy, and this excludes the desire for concentration of political power, which so teaches us the experience in serbia and does not lead in the right direction elsewhere. (the speaker agreed to accept the question raised by the blue card (rule 162 (8)).
blue-card answer.– i indicated in my speech that serbia has to be very clear in its option for our common security and foreign policy, and that i do not think that it is very productive and useful for serbia itself but also for the integration process if they are kind of coquette, with the alternative in moscow.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. first of all, of course, i would like to thank mr mcallister very warmly for the excellent work he has done and all my shadow rapporteurs for the good and successful cooperation. i think we have all managed to come up with a very good text for the resolution on serbia's progress in 2015, which includes all the relevant aspects. like my predecessors, i believe that serbia has made great progress in the past year, as clearly demonstrated by the opening of the first two chapters, and i sincerely hope that the government will continue with the same drive and motivation as... so far. i think it is important that serbia continues to be a leading and strong player in establishing good cooperation and relations in the countries of the western balkans region. these good neighbourly relations actually benefit everyone, of course serbia, the environment and of course the economic development itself. mcallister also stressed the importance of the rule of law. i would add that, of course, the rule of law actually affects everything. it affects society, the economy, the state of democracy, human rights, reasonable sentencing, independent judiciary, and all of these are things that we have to watch for all the time and where there is always room for improvement. relations between the serbian government and the non-governmental sector are also improving, but there is still room for improvement, particularly in the areas of communication and consideration of opinions, and in the situation of civil society in decision-making processes. and of course i would join those who also point out the state of the media, the so-called self-censorship, the position of journalists, and actually that there is really no fear if you say something that is not to the liking of the government or the authorities. finally, serbia has also played an important role in the migration crisis, which cannot be overlooked, and i wish serbia a happy and courageous future after the elections.
i am pleased to welcome the progress made by serbia, as fairly reported by mr mcallister. the opening of negotiations marks a significant step in the accession process, demonstrating that serbia has sufficiently fulfilled the agreed commitments at this stage. i hope that serbia, regardless of the elections, will maintain a stable, reformist and pro-european line in the spirit of the pre-accession commitments. the same applies to the dynamics of developing good relations with kosovo in a pragmatic way. i will not be competing with those who list what is still a problem in serbia, but i join many colleagues who are advocating the imminent opening of chapters 23 and 24. not because it is unexpected, but because these are the areas where progress is most needed and desired.
i congratulate my colleague david mcallister on his balanced report on serbia, which is very encouraging. serbia has made great progress in many areas, and it was right that serbia opened chapters 33 and 35 on 14 december last year. serbia has shown itself to be a very responsible and stable partner in addressing the migration crisis. i believe that this will continue in the future, as the migration flows continue along the balkan route. a stable, democratic and economically successful serbia is the guarantee that young serbs will see a bright future at home in serbia, and it is also the condition for a stable western balkans as a whole. the eu must help serbia to implement the necessary economic reforms and improve transport and environmental infrastructure with pre-accession aid of a sufficient amount. the ipard funds will also help create new jobs. the opening of chapters 23, 24, which deal with justice, fundamental rights, freedom, security, i expect early this year. the report mentions problems in these areas and the opening of these chapters and the democratisation of serbian society is a condition for things to go in the right direction. i wish serbia all the best after the elections and a successful european path.
kosovo has had to overcome internal and external obstacles to conclude that it has taken a very important step towards a full european perspective by concluding the stabilisation and association agreement. i am glad of that and i congratulate kosovo on it. i would like to congratulate my colleague, the rapporteur, mrs lunacek, on another excellent report. as regards the continuation of the accession process, it is clear that the building of relations with serbia will continue to play an important role. i see no better basis for progress towards lasting coexistence within kosovo or between the two countries than the european principles of respect for the dignity of different identities and reconciliation. in this regard, i particularly welcome the efforts and achievements of commissioner hahn and vice-president/high representative mogherini. at the same time, i recommend that the visa issue be given high priority, and that it be resolved soon.
i would like to thank mrs lunacek for her excellent report. so kosovo is one of the youngest democracies and one of the youngest populations. and it is also up to us to enable them to make kosovo a normal democratically developed country, where, of course, mass migration will not happen, which would of course weaken the prospects of kosovo. of course, there is still much to be done. there are important structural changes, including the issue of crime, corruption, the issue of the division of the judiciary, the institutions of control, public finances and transparency of spending, including controls on spending, public finances, regional development and cooperation between neighbours, including serbia. but i think it's important, of course, to allow... to allow kosovo to be included in various international organizations, which has been pointed out, from football to eurovision, of course, and of course unesco.
first, let me say something about the strange title of the item we are considering tonight. i wonder why we don't call it a bob bob. why don't we put the right words to immigrant violence that happened at a specific time in a specific place by a specific group? instead, we use empty phrases like harassment, violence against women in public places, and so on. but this debate is fundamentally well-intentioned. its aim is to do everything possible to ensure that the events in cologne and many other cities will never happen again. it is now clear that this sexual violence against women was not spontaneous. this was an organized, mass attack. the attacker sent a message to the european public about what he thought of the system our system of values. we must be decisive at this point. we must send back a clear message: no one is going to change our way of life or our values, which include gender equality, tolerance of those who believe differently or those who think differently. i regret the fact that many, even women, ngos remained silent in the face of this terrible event. some left-wing organizations have even tried to justify this event by other violence against women, for example in the family, which is obviously too much. it is also a pity that other european institutions and bodies like the fra missed the opportunity to say bob bob bob.
in writing.– i did not support the urgency resolution concerning the human rights situation in bahrain and the case of mohamed ramadan. although it is important that the european parliament attaches a high priority to the human rights situation in every country with whom it develops cooperation, i nevertheless consider bahrain a country which, in the difficult overall situation of the middle east and persian gulf, represents a good example of how a small country with a complicated ethnic and religious background can preserve its stability and maintain a constructive role in regional and international relations. it calls for a sensitive political approach, with no less importance of human rights and human dignity, but has to be put in the context of the overall situation in the wider region and of the standards of democracy and respect for human rights in this region. i consider that the european parliament and european institutions have enough capability to observe and influence the political process of democratisation in bahrain without portraying the country as a specific case of violation of human rights. we should stand for the respect of the rule of law and human rights in bahrain and at the same time support its stability.
in writing. ‒ i was very happy to support the european parliament's report on serbia, as i am very pleased with its progress and its desire to join european integration. as a member of the delegation to monitor serbia's progress in parliament, i visited serbia three times last year, meeting with its governmental and non-governmental representatives on several occasions, including in brussels and strasbourg. i am pleased that the opening of the first two negotiating chapters at the end of last year is a sign that the negotiating teams can get down to work and continue on the path towards the democratisation of society and the improvement of the situation in these areas. of course, serbia still faces many challenges, many of which include eradicating the old practices of the former political system, devoting more attention to the prosecution of corruption and organised crime, strengthening dialogue with civil society, making the media more pluralistic and ensuring greater independence, etc... but i am convinced that only a stable, democratic and economically successful serbia can ensure the political stability of the entire western balkans. the european union must therefore do its utmost to help them, including by increasing the resources of the pre-accession funds, and to enable them to modernise their infrastructure and create new jobs. i am happy to help in this process, because serbia, like all the countries of the western balkans, has a place in the european union at some point.
in writing. ‒ i congratulate serbia for its real progress towards the eu, especially for the recently opened chapters. the opening of eu accession negotiations means that serbia has successfully put itslef into reform mode. happy that in eu spirit, serbia keeps a supportive attitude towards the reconciliation process with kosovo. i won't compete with those who enumerate problems in serbia, but join those who are committed to the opening of chapters 23&24.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution refers to the 2015 report on serbia by the commission. in the report, the commission sets out the progress made by serbia in the area of european convergence and assesses its efforts to meet the copenhagen criteria and the conditions of the stabilisation and association process. i agree that thorough implementation of legislation and policies is still a key indicator of a successful inclusion process. i therefore believe it is important that serbian political leaders continue to reform their legislation to bring it into line with eu standards. the resolution welcomes the progress made by serbia in the area of the business environment and the reduction of the budget deficit in the labour market. the motion for a resolution also contains an important emphasis on the extreme importance of the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary. some other proposals are also highlighted, reflecting some of the most important european principles. as such, i can mention the need to improve the parliamentary consultation process, the proper implementation of the legal and institutional framework for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, the importance of the inclusion of national minorities, the constructive approach of the serbian government to relations with neighbouring countries and the building of sustainable and reliable energy systems. i believe that the motion for a resolution is an appropriate response to the 2015 report on serbia, which is why i supported it in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution at the end of the debate on the council and commission statements on the 2015 report on serbia. i welcome the normalisation and thawing of relations between belgrade and pristina. this is a very important condition for membership of the european union. serbia has thus taken a major step towards joining the european union. of course, there are many more chapters he has to close. this includes the area of justice and fundamental rights and the safeguarding of rights in relation to freedom and security. i am thinking in particular of the freedom of the press, which is very important for the existence of democracy.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution at the end of the debate on the statements by the council and the commission under rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure on the 2015 report on serbia, as i believe it describes well the achievements to date as well as the shortcomings that serbia still needs to improve in the light of european convergence. it covers a range of areas, from the rule of law, democracy, human rights, respect for and protection of minorities, regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations to energy, the environment and transport. in addition, the eu reminds the country of the areas to which it needs to pay extra attention to make the accession negotiations a success.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i firmly believe in serbia´s european prospects. access negotiations between serbia and the eu were opened in 2013 and in december 2015 the first two chapters were opened, which is a clear signal that the country is on the right track towards eu membership. matters of concern still remain, most notably high levels of corruption and a recent increase of political pressure on the media. also, serbia will have to improve its relations with kosovo in order for negotiations to advance further. as of now, serbia´s progress must nevertheless be acknowledged and that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the 2015 progress report of serbia, which was a report on the progress achieved by the country in the field of european integration. i welcome serbia's constructive engagement in the eu negotiations and wish it success in addressing the challenges posed by the open chapters on corruption, judicial reform, respect for human rights and the eu's foreign and security policy coordination.
in writing. ‒ meps voted in favour of the kosovo progress report by a large majority. it must be frankly admitted that kosovo has managed to make significant progress in certain areas, the most important of which is, of course, in relations with serbia and in resolving key interstate problems relating to energy, telecommunications, vehicle insurance and the serb minority in the north. this young country has a long way to go in terms of reform, but they have shown a willingness to take it on. last year, the eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement was also signed, which will provide a significant impetus for the implementation and institutionalisation of reforms, as well as helping to launch cooperation with the eu in a number of areas. high unemployment, especially among young people and women, remains a huge problem. more efforts will be needed to crack down on corruption and organised crime, and more active promotion of small businesses. by supporting the report, i also express the hope that the citizens of kosovo will accept all the help and advice from the eu and thus be able to improve their quality of life.
in writing. ‒ kosovo was able to make a huge step towards the eu with our ep's approval of the stabilization and association agreement, two weeks ago. kosovo's step towards the eu meant that kosovo had to overcome big internal and external barriers - congratulations! building bridges between kosovo and serbia will continue to be a high priority and it is the eu that can help most! it is the european principle of respect for the dignity of different identities that will lead to reconciliation between kosovo & serbia. i strongly recommend kosovo, to keep all internal political issues under discussion within the national assembly and make considerable efforts in the fight against corruption.
in writing. ‒ kosovo's independence has so far been recognised by 110 of the 193 un members, including 23 of the 28 eu member states. on 27 october 2015, a stabilisation and association agreement was signed between the eu and kosovo, paving the way for kosovo's integration into the eu and providing an important call for the implementation and institutionalisation of reforms. this agreement encourages the establishment of cooperation between kosovo and the eu in a number of areas, thus strengthening political dialogue and achieving closer trade cooperation. relations with neighbouring countries will also be strengthened, contributing to stability in the region. the aim of this agreement is to promote european standards in the fields of competition, public procurement, intellectual property and consumer protection as a tangible step towards kosovo's economic integration into the eu. the kosovo authorities have made significant progress towards meeting their obligations under the stabilisation and association agreement in 2015, although further efforts are still needed. i believe that these efforts are necessary in the field of combating corruption and organised crime, freedom of expression and the media, protection and effective guarantee of the rights of all ethnic minorities in kosovo, etc. the motion for a resolution is an appropriate response to the conclusion of the debate on the council and commission statements on the 2015 kosovo report, which is why i supported it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution at the end of the debate on the council and commission statements on the 2015 kosovo report. the future of kosovo is in the european union, but it has a long way to go. the normalisation of relations with serbia is an encouraging and positive step, which must be followed by other important reform steps. among other things, it must step up the fight against corruption and organised crime, improve dialogue with civil society, which is an important part of the modern democratic order, step up efforts to ensure the independence of the media and the judiciary, and implement economic reforms, as kosovo faces high unemployment.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution at the end of the debate on the statements by the council and the commission under rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure on the report on kosovo for 2015, as i believe it describes well the achievements, shortcomings and calls of the eu to kosovo so far, on the path towards european standards. only with the country's commitment to progress and good cooperation with eu member states will kosovo's economic integration be possible, especially in the light of the establishment of a free trade area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i am supportive of kosovo´s european integration process. kosovo finds itself in a more complicated situation compared to other western balkan countries: it still hasn´t been officially recognised by 5 member states, it is the only country to still have an active visa regime in place with the eu and faces very high levels of corruption and unemployment. relations with serbia have improved but a lot more needs to be done, particularly in the fields of judicial and law enforcement cooperation. nevertheless, i believe that further european integration can only benefit kosovo, and will lead to improvements in relations with its neighbours as well as to greater stability within the wider region.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament resolution on the kosovo report, as i agree with the european parliament's response to the report on the progress of kosovo's eu integration process. the eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement is an opportunity for kosovo to carry out comprehensive reforms, strengthen political dialogue and trade links with the eu and contribute to stability in the balkans in general.
in writing. ‒ after the failure of an attempt to form a government of national unity in libya that would at least ostensibly stabilise the country, libya is once again in a virtual impasse. sectarian conflict, anarchy and the threat of islamic state are sending many of the country's inhabitants on a deadly journey across the mediterranean to europe. the situation we are witnessing today also reflects the recklessness of european foreign policy or of its individual countries in the past. after the fall of the gaddafi regime, which i do not condone in any way, the country went down. five years later, we have a situation that poses a major security threat to europe. libya was a successful country, it did business with many western countries, and during the former yugoslavia, a huge number of slovenes went there to work. unfortunately, today, libya is a shadow of its former self. our job is to do everything in our power to help the libyans and the libyans to establish a government that can bring peace to the country and effectively fight islamic extremism. otherwise, not only libyans and libyans will suffer, but also europeans and europeans.
in writing. ‒ a safe and politically-stable libya is an absolute need for libyan citizens! in current geopolitical conditions it is of utmost importance that the eu deploys all its support for the border management of libya and mobilise the international community for the economic reconstruction of the country.
in writing. ‒ since 2011, when rebel groups, with the help of nato, overthrew muammar gaddafi, libya has been facing a serious political, institutional and security crisis. since the summer of 2014, the country has been the scene of increasingly violent clashes between two disbanded and fragmented opposing groups (the forces of operation pride and the "libyan dawn" coalition). both opposing camps defend their aims and invoke the legitimacy of the opposing governments and parliaments, based in tripoli and tobruk. in the country, militias affiliated with the so-called islamic state have taken advantage of the civil war and the power vacuum to increase their presence. they have been carrying out terrorist attacks with increasing frequency and brutally abusing the local population. since libya's descent into civil war, the human rights situation there, as well as the humanitarian situation, has deteriorated sharply. the motion for a resolution makes some appropriate proposals for action, such as the establishment of inclusive internal institutions that could uphold the rule of law, the development of a comprehensive disarmament, demobilization and reintegration programme, the conferral of jurisdiction on the international criminal court for violations and abuses in libya, etc. however, since paragraph 12 on the deployment of eunavfor was not removed from the motion for a resolution in plenary, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in libya. i support the political agreement in libya signed by the opposing parties which will complete the political divide in libya. the agreement calls for the formation of a government of national unity and a provisional government of the nine-member presidential committee, composed of the prime minister, five deputies and three ministers. i particularly welcome the fact that the agreement was adopted under the auspices of the united nations. i join the call in the resolution for the house of representatives in tobruk and the presidency to support this agreement, which is a key step in the implementation of the libyan political agreement and which is consistent with the efforts to achieve peace and stability in the country and to defend all libyan citizens.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the situation in libya because i believe that the european union's support for libya in resolving the crisis is not only necessary but also very urgent. the situation affecting the violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms and the violence and disturbance of peace in the country consequently threaten the security of the entire region, including the eu. the growing humanitarian crisis calls more than ever for the eu to call for an end to violence, new divisions and solutions through political dialogue.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because urgent action is needed in libya, where economic disintegration and violence are worsening its fragility and enabling extremist organisations to flourish. spillovers from libya’s conflicts are also destabilising the sahel region, and could constitute a threat to the eu´s security. the libyan conflict is in fact having repercussions in egypt and particularly tunisia, but also in algeria and its oilfields, while contributing to exacerbate extremism. with this resolution we urge the eu and international community to be ready to support libyans’ efforts to implement the libyan political agreement. we urgently call for continued humanitarian, financial and political assistance from the eu and the international community to address the humanitarian situation in libya, the plight of internally displaced persons and refugees and that of civilians facing disruptions in access to basic services.
in writing. ‒ the current situation in libya requires the immediate intervention of peacekeepers and the establishment of political dialogue between the parties. military conflict worsens human rights and cripples the economy, and allows the rise of extremist groups, terrorist attacks and smuggling. i support the european parliament's resolution on the situation in libya, as i believe it will help to stabilise the situation in libya. the eu stands ready to provide support to help build the state, ensure security and peace, and uphold human rights and the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed resolution on the eu's island regions, as i believe that more attention should be paid to islands, which make up a significant part of the european territory. the arguments for the preservation of island regions are similar to those i often raise in relation to the problem of hilly and mountainous areas. both islands and mountain areas face transport and information remoteness, migration, which affects the cultural and natural heritage and the ageing population. in terms of economic activity, island regions are most dependent on tourism, which is the largest employer in these regions, but the seasonality of this industry makes it difficult to provide jobs throughout the year. in the resolution we therefore called for the establishment of an eu strategic framework for island regions and for a change of approach for islands that are under the greatest pressure from migration waves.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the question for an oral answer on the special status of the islands. i agree with the call on the commission to draw up a clear definition of the types of permanent geographical, natural and demographic handicaps that may affect island regions and to launch a thorough study/analysis of the additional costs of insularity in terms of passenger and freight transport, energy supply and market access, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. ‒ motion for a resolution on the question for oral answer (b8-0106/2016) pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure on the special status of islands, as i believe that islands need a special policy because of their natural specificity, remoteness and sensitivity. only by giving countries a special treatment and an adapted financial framework will the union be able to exploit the potential offered by these islands, despite some limitations. in particular, by developing tourism, promoting cultural heritage, developing craft and economic activities and the potential of alternative energy, they will achieve development, growth and become more competitive within the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is important to take concrete steps to address the permanent handicaps that eu islands face and make full use of their potential. we must take into consideration the unique difficulties that southern insular regions face due to the increased migration flows. this is why we called upon the commission, among other things, to maintain special tax regimes for islands. we also ask the commission to: 1)set up a homogenous group made up of all island territories, which recognises the permanent handicaps of insular regions, 2) take account of other statistical indicators, besides gdp, which will reflect the economic and social vulnerability of these regions, 3) launch an in-depth analysis of the extra costs incurred as a result of being an island and 4) establish an “eu strategic framework for islands” which would link up instruments that could have a major territorial impact, and submit a communication on an “agenda for eu islands” and subsequently a white paper to monitor the development of islands.
in writing. ‒ the european islands are facing many challenges due to the adverse conditions arising from climate conditions, the economic crisis, migration flows and distance from the european continental shores. i therefore supported the resolution in which the european parliament calls on the commission to draw up a development programme for the eu islands. it is necessary to halt the displacement of people from island regions, to promote sustainable development on islands and to create new jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the question for oral answer on the role of local and regional authorities in the european structural and investment funds. cohesion policy is an important instrument of the european union and will play an important role in the 2014-2020 programming year as the main investment instrument covering all eu regions and as an opportunity to establish a process of sustainable growth. i particularly support the resolution as it emphasises the key role of local and regional authorities in shaping and implementing eu strategies, while recognising the role of a wide range of stakeholders, from member states to local communities. to design and implement eu strategies effectively, we need good cooperation between all stakeholders at eu level.
in writing. ‒ motion for a resolution - i supported the role of local and regional authorities in the european structural and investment funds, as i believe that these authorities play an important role in achieving the objectives of the european union's cohesion policy. their participation in the preparation and implementation phases of operational programmes contributes to the faster implementation of the guidelines at national level. this is the only way to help create opportunities, sustainable growth, new jobs, growth in innovation and entrepreneurship. the result will be an improved quality of life for eu citizens, a stronger position for the member states and equality in all eu regions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which lays out a set of recommendations concerning the role of regional and local authorities in the european structural and investment fund (esif). its main message, which i completely support, is that local and regional authorities play a key role in shaping and implementing eu strategies. the text outlines the positive synergies and complementarity between the esi funds and other eu programmes, in which local and regional authorities can play a useful role in attaining the objectives of cohesion policy. in order to fulfil these objectives, enhancing the administrative capacity and tackling the structural weaknesses of local and regional authorities are pivotal to both the programming and the implementation phases of the operational programmes and to achieving a higher absorption rate of esi funds. the resolution therefore rightly calls on the commission to ensure that support is provided for capacity building for local and regional authorities and their administrations and institutions, so that they are in a position to play a meaningful role in cohesion policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the humanitarian situation in yemen. following the airstrikes by the saudi-led coalition, yemen has been embroiled in a humanitarian crisis characterised by inadequate food security and severe malnutrition, indiscriminate attacks on civilians and medical and humanitarian personnel, and the destruction of civilian and medical infrastructure. i support coordinated humanitarian action under the leadership of the united nations and call on states to help meet humanitarian needs, while respecting international humanitarian law and international human rights law by all parties, in order to protect civilians and prevent direct attacks on civilian infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the motion for a resolution on the humanitarian situation in yemen, as we voted in our epp political group to postpone the vote. i am of course in favour of the efforts of the european union and the un to mediate. the difficult situation, which affects the deterioration of human rights and the increase in violence, seriously threatens the stability and security of the region and potentially affects the eu as well. by calling for and engaging all parties to dialogue, tolerance and the rejection of violence to achieve political objectives, yemen will achieve lasting peace and stability at both the national and international levels. the resolution contained a number of other key points which need to be improved, and i therefore believe that the postponement of the vote is a good opportunity to improve the existing text.
in writing. ‒ the vote that took place concerning the resolution on the humanitarian situation in yemen was actually a request to postpone the vote of the resolution to the february ii part session. the request was put forward by cristian dan preda, on behalf of the ppe group. parliament agreed to the request by electronic vote (391 in favour, 226 against, 13 abstentions). i voted in favour of the postponement of the vote to the february ii part-session.
in writing. ‒ the atrocities committed by the so-called islamic state are indescribable. the beheading of infidels, as they call it, the enslavement, the enforcement of sharia law in all its cruelty, the terrorist attacks on civilians, the desecration of a cultural heritage that goes back thousands of years are just some of the atrocities committed by self-styled fighters of islam in syria, iraq, libya and also in europe. the islamic state also carries out genocide against religious minorities such as christians, yazidis, turkmens and others, and this is clearly defined by the european parliament in this resolution. so it is not the isolated execution of individuals who do not pledge allegiance to jihadists, but the systematic extermination of religious minorities. the international community must not remain indifferent to these atrocities and must make a sincere effort to resolve the conflict in syria and iraq, which is already spreading rapidly towards north africa, by all means at its disposal. the resolution i supported also calls for the establishment of a permanent representative for freedom of religion and calls on member states to strengthen their legislation to prevent the passage of islamic state fighters through their territory from outside the eu and back. it also calls for the immediate prosecution of such individuals as potential terrorists.
in writing. ‒ for years we have been witnessing the horrific criminal acts which are performed in front of our eyes in the terrible war in syria and iraq. the time has come, that the international community is mobilized towards resolving the crisis and legally aknowledging that what is happening with christians and other religious minorities under the reign of isis is "genocide", with all the implications that such a definition means. i am hopeful, that such definitions will bring consequences at the level of the un security council and align all allies against the terrible criminal acts which are being done in the middle east, under the pretext of religious persecution.
in writing. ‒ data show that the so-called isil/daesh continue to target ethnic and religious groups in iraq and syria (chaldeans, syrians and assyrians, kurdish fays, kakais, sabaeans, shabaks, shiite arabs, turkmen and yazidis). these represent deliberate victims of grave abuses and violations of international human rights law and international humanitarian law. the latter, according to un experts, may amount to war crimes, crimes against humanity, and possibly even genocide. the systematic and horrific acts referred to include mass killings, ethnic cleansing, targeted killings, forced conversion to islam, abductions, forced displacement, stoning and amputation, enforced disappearances and torture, destruction of religious and cultural heritage monuments and trafficking in cultural property. i agree that there is a need to strongly condemn the many serious violations of international human rights law and international humanitarian law committed by all parties involved in the current conflict in iraq and syria. at the same time, i feel it is necessary to point out that the humanitarian needs of the people of iraq, syria and libya continue to outweigh the international response. i join the call to the warring parties in the region to immediately cease attacks on the civilian population, release arbitrarily detained prisoners and respect the human rights of all, regardless of religion, ethical affiliation or political beliefs. i support the motion for a resolution because of what it says.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the systematic mass killings of religious minorities by isis. it is our duty to raise the alarm when violent extremist ideology, terrorist acts, the constant horrors, the systematic and widespread attacks on civilians, the violations of human rights and international humanitarian law are at stake. no matter who's doing it or where in the world it's happening. i join in condemning the actions of isis, which can be characterised as crimes against humanity, and in calling on the members of the un security council to support the recommendation of the security council to the international criminal court to investigate the violations committed against christians, yazidis and other ethnic minorities in iraq and syria by the so-called isis.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the systematic mass killings of religious minorities by isis, as i believe that crimes against humanity and war crimes, wherever and whenever they occur, must not go unpunished, nor should they be part of our lives. i support the european union's efforts to ensure effective prosecution of such crimes, both by taking action at national level and by improving international cooperation. this will help to restore a sense of security, peace and trust among the people of europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i find deplorable the human rights abuses perpetrated by isis/daesh against christians, yazidis, turkmen, shi’ites, shabak, sabeans, kaka’e and sunnis who do not agree with their interpretation of islam. these violations amount to “war crimes”, “crimes against humanity” and “genocide” according to the rome statute of the international criminal court (icc). with this resolution we urge the international community to take urgent action to counter the systematic mass murder of religious minorities by isis. we also call upon all eu member states to update their legal and jurisdictional systems in order to prevent their nationals and citizens travelling to join isis and other terrorist organisations and also ensure that, should they do so, they face criminal court proceedings as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ christians in particular, as well as other religious minorities, are one of the most vulnerable groups in the conflict-affected iraqi and syrian societies, systematically targeted by the terrorist organisation isis/daesh. several reports by un bodies, including the special adviser of the un secretary-general on the prevention of genocide and the special adviser of the un secretary-general on the responsibility to protect, and the office of the un high commissioner for human rights, have indicated that the actions of so-called daesh/isis could amount to war crimes, crimes against humanity and possibly even genocide. such crimes against the civilian population, wherever and whenever they occur, must not go unpunished. i therefore support the european parliament's resolution calling for all necessary measures to be taken in accordance with international human rights law and refugee and humanitarian law to prevent and combat these terrorist acts.
question asked by raising the blue card. mr jakovčić, you mentioned the connection between istria, which is croatia, and the slovenian railway. and as we know, from 1902 to 1935, there was a so-called "denier", parenzana, who was extremely important. do you think there is still a chance to actually revive this track and thereby help both slovenian and croatian tourism?
in writing. i support the emphasis in the report that the need to invest in social development is not only a means to ensure sustainable and inclusive economic development and convergence, but must also be a specific objective in itself. we need to invest in housing support, health care, child care and rehabilitation services. as the report rightly points out, quality and inclusive jobs are an essential pillar of social justice, promoting human dignity for all.
first of all, of course, congratulations to my colleague becker for a very good, very well done job. we have a very good proposal before us, and we will support it easily. the european network of employment services will make a significant contribution to the faster matching of job supply and demand across the european union. job vacancies may be published and made available to all. that's very good. it is also of particular importance for jobseekers that private agencies and non-governmental organisations will be able to join the new network in addition to the public employment services. i think we can reduce unemployment among the most vulnerable groups. i certainly support all my colleagues who say that special attention should be paid to apprenticeships and traineeships. i am sure, of course, that eures will also have a positive impact on increasing mobility within the eu.
in fact, every year, we adopt this report in the form of a european parliament resolution. i have no doubt you're doing a good job, as are my colleagues. the very name of the body seems promising: the european ombudsman. but i would like to stress that this is not the right title: the ombudsman is neither pan-european nor does he have sufficient powers to protect human rights in the union. for example, the ombudsman only accepts complaints if they concern a union institution or body, and otherwise he/she redirects them to the relevant authorities in the member states. i have personal experience with the workings of this institute. in the past, i've tried to explain to the ombudswoman the notorious case of the fundamental human rights violations in the patria case and the miscarriage of justice in this case, but without success. the ombudsman found, within the framework of his powers, that the case was not a matter of union law. she redirected me back to the system i was protesting. perhaps the question at this point is not whether we need such a guardian with such powers at all. i think it was mrs. but we should consider a genuine, integrated european ombudsman for fundamental rights within the eu, with the power to respond to the most flagrant violations of the rights of eu citizens.
in writing. meps have an important role to play in dealing with the work of the european ombudsman. the ombudsman's report shows that in 2014 she closed 387 complaints. most often, the ombudsman dealt with the transparency of eu documents, with regard to competition and selection processes. sometimes we are not aware of what it means to be a european ombudsman. the first is to deal with complaints about the way the institutions are working. however, i believe that the ombudsman did her job properly in 2014. in the future, i would like the ombudsman to look at the judicial systems of individual member states, which often do not work for the benefit of their citizens.
madam president, madam vice-president, i think that the agreement is not in the spirit of the tobacco directive, and i therefore oppose it. i wonder why the commission would pursue the renewal of the agreement when we adopted the tobacco directive in 2014 which already provides certain instruments in article 15 to prevent illicit trade. the evaluation of the effectiveness of the agreement does not provide grounds for its renewal. does the commission consider that it would be more appropriate to step up efforts in support of the protocol to the framework convention on tobacco control, which provides for action at international and national level and has so far been ratified by only a few countries? i also wonder what the opinion of health commissioner andriukaitis, who has fought very hard against the harmful effects of tobacco, is on this matter.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's proposed recommendation that austria be allowed to sign and ratify the hague convention and that malta be allowed to accede to it. the hague convention provides for a system under which documents may be served in another contracting state, but it applies only to cross-border service of documents in or from third countries. the rules governing service between eu member states are laid down in the horizontal regulation on the service of judicial documents. austria and malta were the only two eu countries that had not applied the provisions of the hague convention, but have recently expressed their wish to accede to it. but before they can be implemented, the eu must give these two countries the power to act on its behalf. i agree with the rapporteur that the field of crossborder service of documents is very useful and that it is in the interest of both the eu and the acceding countries that there is a single exchange regime.
in writing. ‒ i supported the authorisation of austria to sign and ratify the hague convention of 15 november 1965 and malta's accession to it, which will enable countries to ratify the convention. the hague convention of 1965 established a system that allowed for the service of documents between states. cross-border service of documents in or from third countries in the ec is regulated by regulation no 1393/2007, which transfers the hague convention to the ec. the convention has so far been applied by 26 of the 28 member states and it is in the interest of the ec that there is a uniform regime for the service of documents in crossborder relations with third countries.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 15 november 1965 established a system whereby judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters may also be served in another state party to the convention. the convention applies to service of documents in or from third countries and is already applied by 26 eu member states. the hague convention has proved to be very useful in the field of cross-border service of documents. austria and malta, which have not yet signed the convention, have expressed their desire to join. however, the convention does not allow for the accession of international organisations, which means that the eu must specifically authorise member states wishing to accede to the convention to act on its behalf. the existence of a uniform regime for the service of documents in cross-border relations with third countries is in the interest of both the eu and austria and malta, which wish to accede to the convention. i therefore voted in favour of the recommendation in the plenary and thereby supported it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision authorising the republic of austria, in the interest of the european union, to sign and ratify the hague convention of 15 november 1965 on the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters and the republic of malta to accede to it. austria and malta are the only countries of the 28 not yet applying the hague convention. since both have expressed a desire to join, malta has already deposited the instrument, austria will deposit it, and since this is in the interest of the union and its member states, i have supported the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on a draft council decision authorising the republic of austria, in the interest of the european union, to sign and ratify the hague convention of 15 november 1965 on the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters and the republic of malta to accede to it, since the hague convention already allows documents to be served on other contracting states. the convention is already applied by 26 of the 28 member states, and austria and malta have expressed their wish to accede to it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the authorisation for austria to sign and ratify, and malta to accede to, the hague convention of 15 november 1965 on the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters, in the interest of the european union. the hague convention of 15 november 1965 establishes a system whereby documents in or from third countries can be served in another signatory state. twenty-six member states already apply the convention, leaving austria and malta as the two remaining member states who are still not part of the system. these two member states have now filed a request to join and, given that the hague convention of 15 november 1965 has proven useful in the field of the cross-border service of documents, it is in the interest both of the union and of the two member states in question to have a single regime for the service of documents in cross-border relations with third countries.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a decision on the accession of austria and malta to the convention, as it is in the interest of the union as a whole and of the two member states in question that there should be a uniform regime for the service of documents in crossborder relations with third countries.
in writing. ‒ the estimated size of the grey economy in the eu member states is a staggering €1 000 billion a year in uncollected taxes and contributions. although it is an estimate, there is no doubt that it is a major anomaly, which is detrimental both in terms of free competition and in terms of providing access to public services financed by taxes. the fight against tax fraud is one of the eu's priorities and is already showing results. the examples of corporate tax evasion exposures that we've seen since the luxleaks revelations are certainly steps in the right direction. if we do not punish the big offenders and build our apparent power on the backs of thieves, we will lose credibility with the citizens. to achieve these objectives, we need to strengthen the exchange of financial account data and all other relevant information concerning the cross-border activities of companies. i am therefore pleased that the eu and san marino have reached an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information, which is an important step in the fight against tax fraud. the agreement provides for the automatic exchange of information on residents' financial accounts, which will help to identify those residents who conceal income or capital. i therefore supported the proposed decision to conclude the agreement.
in writing. ‒ this agreement is an important step towards better international cooperation to prevent tax fraud, which was also possible due to the non-exchange of financial data between countries. the adoption of the san marino agreement will be a significant step forward in enabling the automatic exchange of information on residents' financial accounts between the ec and san marino. this will help us to prevent the concealment of money for tax evasion purposes. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a recommendation on the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the 2014 oecd guidelines on competition policy. the agreement will thus allow member states' tax administrations to exercise greater control over the accounts of their nationals in san marino, leading to a reduction in tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ on 8 december 2015, the eu and san marino signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information to improve international tax cooperation and compliance. the agreement provides for the automatic exchange of information on residents' financial accounts between the eu and san marino as from 2017. the purpose of the agreement is to resolve situations where a taxpayer attempts to conceal capital in the form of income or assets for which he has not paid tax. the agreement will enable tax administrations in the member states and in san marino to identify correctly and unambiguously the relevant taxpayers, to administer and enforce national tax legislation in cross-border situations, to assess the likelihood of tax evasion and to ensure that no unnecessary further investigations are carried out. the agreement represents an important step in the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion and builds on the 2004 agreement, which resulted in san marino implementing measures equivalent to those of the eu savings tax directive. i therefore supported the report in plenary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the republic of san marino providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. much has been done in the past to combat tax fraud, and much more remains to be done. in particular, in the field of data exchange between countries. the eu-san marino agreement builds on the 2004 agreement and will mean enhanced measures against tax fraud and tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the republic of san marino providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments, as i believe that it is right to support the transparency of capital in the form of income or assets. the eu and san marino will automatically exchange information on residents' financial accounts from 2017 onwards, in accordance with the agreement. the purpose is to resolve situations where a taxpayer attempts to conceal capital in the form of income or assets for which he has not paid tax.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-san marino agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information. the eu and san marino signed an agreement in december 2015 to restrict tax fraud and tax evasion by automatically exchanging information on residents’ income, such as interests and dividends, account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets. the agreement implies stricter measures to be applied by san marino, equal to those applied within the eu since march 2014, and it complies with the 2014 global standard on the automatic exchange of financial account information promoted by the oecd. this agreement will work in the direction of increased financial transparency with the aim of preventing eu citizens from concealing money in bank accounts from the tax services and this is the reason why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a council decision, as i believe that the agreement will ensure that san marino implements enhanced measures to combat tax fraud.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed recommendation providing for croatia's accession to the convention on the protection of the financial interests of the union, as this is necessary for the purpose of alignment with the eu acquis. the act of accession of croatia to the eu introduced a simplified system for its accession to conventions already concluded by other member states. the commission therefore recommends that the council fix the date of entry into force of the convention on the protection of financial interests and the protocols thereto. and i, as a member of the european parliament, who is giving my consent to this adoption procedure, am not opposed to it.
in writing. ‒ i supported the rapporteur's proposal because it allows for a more rapid harmonisation of the legal order between the european union and croatia. with the accession of croatia to the ec, a simplified system of accession of croatia to the conventions (and protocols) concluded by the member states on the basis of article 34 teu entered into force. the proposal provides for a simplified adjustment procedure necessary as a result of croatia's accession to the convention and its protocols.
in writing. ‒ the act of accession of the republic of croatia of 2011 introduces a simplified system for croatia's accession to the conventions (and protocols) concluded by the member states on the basis of article 34 of the treaty on european union (teu). to this end, the council shall adopt a decision fixing the date of entry into force of the conventions for croatia and amending them accordingly as necessary upon accession of the new member state. such a decision shall be taken by the council on the basis of a recommendation from the commission and after consulting the ep. the report in question concerns croatia's accession to the convention of 26 july 1995 on the protection of the european communities' financial interests, its protocols of 27 september 1996 and 29 november 1996 and the second protocol of 19 june 1997, adopted under title vi of the teu and designed to establish a common basis for the criminal law protection of the ec's financial interests. in this case, it is not necessary to make the adjustments which would be necessary as a result of croatia's accession to that convention and its protocols. i believe that the accession of the republic of croatia to those conventions is necessary and that is why i voted in favour of the report in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the accession of croatia to the convention on the protection of the financial interests of the union. the act of accession of croatia to the convention provides that croatia accedes to the conventions and protocols to which member states have acceded in the past. it is provided that the council will adopt a decision fixing the date of entry into force of the conventions for croatia and amending them accordingly as necessary upon accession of the new member state. the act also contains a list of all relevant conventions and protocols.
in writing. ‒ i supported croatia's accession to the convention on the protection of the union's financial interests, as this would put in place a simplified system for croatia's accession to the conventions (and protocols) concluded by the member states on the basis of article 34 teu. article 3 (4) and (5) of that act provides that croatia accedes to those conventions and protocols by virtue of the act of accession.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the accession of croatia to the convention on the protection of the financial interests of the union. article 3(4) and 3(5) of the 2011 accession treaty of the republic of croatia provides that croatia accedes to conventions and protocols concluded by the member states on the basis of article 34 of the treaty on european union by virtue of the act of accession. among the conventions and protocols concerned is the convention on the protection of the european communities’ financial interests of 26 july 1995, its protocol of 27 september 1996, its protocol of 29 november 1996 and the second protocol of 19 june 1997, all adopted under title vi of the eu treaty. the convention aims at establishing a common base for the criminal-law protection of the european community’s financial interests. i voted in favour of determining the date on which the convention shall enter into force for croatia in line with a simplified system for the accession of croatia to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states on the basis of article 34 of the treaty on european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of adopting a recommendation recommending that the commission should set the council the date for the entry into force for croatia of the above conventions concluded by the member states on the basis of article 34 teu, thereby allowing the further establishment of a common basis for the criminal law protection of the eu's financial interests.
in writing. ‒ with an ageing population in europe and still high unemployment rates in some eu member states or their regions, the design and direction of appropriate employment flows is of paramount importance in reversing these trends. the free choice of employment in the eu is one of the most important components of the european single market, one of the four fundamental freedoms of the european union, and thus an essential element of eu citizenship. increasing the mobility of workers within the eu, thereby increasing the employment opportunities of workers and helping employers to fill vacancies, is one of the key steps towards achieving these goals. i therefore had no hesitation in supporting the above regulation or the report by mr becker, which aims to develop the eures network into an effective instrument for all jobseekers and employers interested in finding workers within the eu. this will be achieved by providing access to a transparent and comprehensive eu-wide register of job vacancies and jobseeker profiles, including apprenticeships and traineeships. i particularly like the fact that we are bringing young jobseekers into the network, so that they can take full advantage of the benefits of the eu. i believe that the eures network will have a very positive impact on increasing intra-eu mobility and thus on a more connected europe.
in writing. ‒ i supported the rapporteur's proposal as it establishes a more in-depth and improved european network of employment services. this will increase workers' access to job vacancies in other member states, thereby increasing labour mobility and thus making a key contribution to further integration of labour markets between the member states of the european union. the european network of employment services will make available even more job vacancies in regions where workers from other regions and member states with higher unemployment rates can be employed. at the same time, the proposal provides assistance to workers and employers, increases the role of eures, clearly defines cross-border cooperation, establishes minimum common criteria to be met by all member states and ensures equal access to services.
in writing. ‒ freedom of movement is one of the four fundamental freedoms of the eu. it also includes the freedom to choose one's job, which is an essential element of eu citizenship. the rate of labour mobility within the eu is relatively low, i.e. 0.29%, in relation to the size of the labour market and the number of the active population. i agree that there is a need to increase labour mobility in the eu, thereby increasing the employment opportunities of workers and helping employers to fill vacancies better and faster. the proposed regulation aims to develop the eures network into an effective tool for all jobseekers and employers interested in labour mobility within the eu. this pan-european network would provide access to a transparent and as comprehensive as possible register of vacancies and jobseeker profiles. the network's performance will also be regularly assessed, allowing for any improvements to be made as quickly as possible and ensuring the network's continued and successful operation. i believe that the eures network represents a unique opportunity for jobseekers in the eu, as it is free, provides information on living and working conditions, connects jobseekers with employers looking for specific skills and points them to sectors and occupations where there is a shortage of skilled workers. i voted to accept the report because of what it described.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a european network of employment services, workers' access to mobility services and the further integration of labour markets. the high unemployment rate in the european union is still crippling certain regions, and at the same time there are still some 2 million unfilled vacancies, so we need to step up efforts in this area. the new rules will help to bring jobs closer together and give the social partners, young people and crossborder regions a greater role.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a european network of employment services, access to mobility services for workers and further integration of labour markets, as the renewed eures will make a significant contribution to reducing unemployment in the eu member states and to bringing jobs closer together. in addition to public employment services, private agencies and non-governmental organisations will also be able to participate in eures. the vacancies will thus be publicly published and accessible to all. i think we'll reduce unemployment among vulnerable groups. i am convinced that eures will also have a positive impact on increasing the employment mobility of citizens within the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a european network of employment services, workers’ access to mobility services and the further integration of labour markets. the european employment service network (eures) is an eu-wide database of job-seekers and vacancies, established in 1993 as a cooperation network between the commission and the public employment services of the eu member states (plus switzerland, norway, iceland and liechtenstein), and partners: private job agencies, trade unions, employers’ associations. however, several important limitations such as an incomplete database of job vacancies and cvs, limited automated matching potential and insufficient cross-border labour information have prevented it from functioning efficiently and further integrating the member states labour markets. i voted in favour of improving the european employment services (eures) network with the aim of helping fight unemployment by better matching the labour market supply and demand and paying more attention to cross-border regions and young people.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a european network of employment services, access to mobility services for workers and further integration of labour markets, because i agree with the aim of the regulation, that the regulatory framework needs to be revised to reflect new types of work, mobility and working life patterns and the increasing role of other labour market intermediaries providing employment services in addition to public employment services.
in writing. ‒ tunisia's economy is in a bad shape, especially after the terrorist attacks last year. the eu/commission is therefore offering a hand to tunisia and its economy by proposing to introduce a duty-free quota of a total of 70,000 tonnes per year for the export of olive oil from tunisia to the eu, without increasing the total volume of imports. the measure is intended to help the tunisian economy, where the olive sector provides jobs for one million people, representing as much as one fifth of all jobs in agriculture. olive oil is also the main agricultural product exported by tunisia. i myself agree with the solidarity that the eu is showing towards tunisia, but we must be very careful not to harm our own farmers, especially those in southern europe. in the countries most affected by the economic crisis, the olive oil sector is of paramount importance for the maintenance of jobs, exports and economic stability. prices have been falling for a long time, and farmers have been plagued by rising production costs for a long time. the impact of this measure on the european agricultural sector cannot be ignored and i have therefore also supported the amendments to the proposal which make this possible in part.
in writing. ‒ following the terrorist attack in susu on 26 june 2015, the eu decided to offer more assistance to tunisia in its political and economic transition. it will do so through concrete and targeted measures that can be effective also in the short term. the commission has therefore proposed to introduce a temporary unilateral tariff-free tariff quota of 35000 tonnes per year for the export of olive oil from tunisia to the eu in the form of autonomous trade measures. the quota will be available for a period of two years (january 2016 to december 2017). i agree that the eu must contribute to the economic recovery of tunisia in this difficult period, but i believe that eu solidarity should not be at the expense of farmers in southern europe, who are in this case olive oil producers. the eu is the world leader in the olive oil sector. in the large areas of eu countries most affected by the financial and economic crisis, this sector provides thousands of jobs and contributes to a positive eu trade balance. the report contains certain proposals for amendments, the main purpose of which is to encourage the commission to assess the impact of such measures on the european agricultural sector while assessing the feasibility of the proposal. i think the proposals are appropriate, which is why i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the introduction of emergency autonomous trade measures for the republic of tunisia. i support the amendment proposals which include the commission's mid-term review of the impact of this regulation on the olive oil market in the union since its entry into force. however, if the review concludes that the provisions of the regulation have a negative impact on the union market, the commission shall be empowered to adopt an implementing act to propose corrective measures to address the situation on the union market. we are hereby expressing our support for the economic development of tunisia.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council introducing emergency autonomous trade measures for the republic of tunisia, as it is important that the eu expresses its support through concrete actions, especially in view of tunisia's economic development, following the difficult circumstances caused by the terrorist attacks in the summer. the european commission therefore proposes to introduce a temporary unilateral duty-free tariff quota of 35000 tonnes per year, or 70.000 tonnes in total, for the export of olive oil from tunisia to the union. the measure will benefit a large part of the tunisian economy. the tunisian olive sector indirectly provides jobs for more than one million people and accounts for one fifth of all jobs in the country's agriculture. olive oil is among the main agricultural products exported by tunisia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the introduction of emergency autonomous trade measures for tunisia. after the terrorist attacks in tunis and sousse in 2015, tourist arrivals in tunisia have decreased considerably, negatively affecting the already struggling economy. in order to help the tunisian economy, an emergency short-term trade measure is announced in the form of a two-year temporary zero-duty tariff quota of 35 000 tonnes per year for eu olive oil imports from tunisia for 2016 and 2017. the measure will not increase the overall volume of imports from tunisia as the eu will only discount duties on the current tunisian olive oil exports to the eu. in order to further protect the eu olive producers, additional precautions will be undertaken such as a mid-term assessment and updates of the measures if they turn out harmful for eu olive oil producers, as well as a ‘tracking clause’ obligation ensuring that the olive oil truly comes from tunisia. i voted in favour of this emergency measure in order to help the damaged tunisian economy.
in writing. ‒ in the wake of the terrorist attack in susu on 26 june 2015, the eu decided to offer more assistance to tunisia in its political and economic transition, through concrete and targeted measures that can be effective in the short term. i support these measures and have therefore voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation which will allow the introduction of a temporary unilateral tariff quota of 35 000 tonnes per year, i.e. a total of 70 000 tonnes, for the export of olive oil from tunisia to the union, in the form of autonomous trade measures and without increasing the total volume of imports.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed report on the use of the globalisation adjustment fund, the first of its kind in 2016, as it helps, at least in a symbolic way, the dismissed workers of the glass companies in the walloon region of belgium. the eu budget thus provides a meagre eur 1,1 million in funding for restructuring measures. these will be used to help 412 overworked people with retraining and education and 100 unemployed young people not in education. the belgian glass industry, and indeed the european industry as a whole, is facing a number of problems due to competition from the far east, high production costs and strict environmental legislation. this leads to a reduction in production and consequent redundancies. the services that the redundant workers will receive include, inter alia, counselling and encouragement in finding employment, support in setting up a business, training allowances, etc. the european adaptation fund will provide a range of training programmes and career guidance assistance to unemployed young people. the slovenian glass industry is also facing similar problems, and we have also had layoffs. i expect that the commission will also receive a request from the slovenian government to use the funds of the said fund, which would help many individuals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund in the hainaut-namur glass case. wallonia has a long tradition of the glass industry, which makes its population particularly dependent on this industry. the increasing impact of globalisation on the local economy has increased competition, which has greatly tightened the conditions for the glass industry in this region. the decreased competitiveness has created problems for regional glass companies, with the number of jobs decreasing by 19% in recent years. the granting of mitigation funds is justified, but the commission must examine all the circumstances and take these findings into account in any future applications for funds.
in writing. ‒ as additional support for workers who have been affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows or by the consequences of the global financial and economic crisis, the eu has established legislative and budgetary instruments. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is also used to help these redundant workers reintegrate into the labour market. on this basis, belgium submitted an application egf/2015/007 be/hainaut-namur glass for a financial contribution from the egf, in respect of redundancies in the economic sector. these measures are to involve 412 redundant workers and 100 young people from hainaut who are not in employment, education or training and are under 25 years of age. although the application does not meet the normal eligibility criteria of the egf regulation, it was submitted in accordance with the aid criterion allowing for derogations in exceptional circumstances in the case of redundant workers and in the case of young people not in employment, education or training. in order to mobilise the fund, the commission submitted to the budgetary authority a request for a transfer of a total amount of eur 1 095 544 from the egf reserve to the egf budget line. i agree that eu financial assistance for redundant workers should be dynamic and available as quickly and efficiently as possible, which is why i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund - role of hainaut-namur glass. this is the first report of the year and is a typical example of the impact of globalisation on the european market. this will help 412 overworked people and 100 young people under 25 who are not in employment, education or training. the report is in line with the european commission's position and the eu decision on the globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management (application egf/2015/007 be/hainaut-namur glass, belgium), as the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows. this time, the funds will be allocated to belgium to support the reintegration of workers who have become redundant in two enterprises in the belgian regions of hainaut (be32) and namur (be35) at nuts 2 level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the application egf/2015/007 be/hainaut-namur glass. the grant of eur 1 095 544 in eu aid is directed to belgium to help 412 benelux workers find new jobs. the workers were made redundant by two glass manufacturers – agc europe and saint-gobain glass – which are unable to compete with very strong competition from asian producers. belgium has also decided to include 100 young people who are not in employment, education or training (neets) in the plans. redundant workers are usually helped by the european globalisation adjustment fund with measures such as support for business start-ups, job-search assistance, occupational guidance and various kinds of training. in order to help the laid-off workers find new employment after losing their jobs due to harsh competition in the market i voted in favour of granting this aid.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help workers made redundant in belgium. the glass industry is a long-established economic sector, which is faced with higher production costs and stricter environmental standards in europe and overproduction in asia. the egf will provide assistance to redundant workers (many of whom are under 25) for training, support for joint projects and support for business start-ups.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, with the support of the report, identified the economic policy priorities for the 2016 policy coordination process, the european semester. the combination of investment, structural investment and fiscal responsibility is the basis for budgetary planning with a particular focus on the euro area. environmental, public health and food safety policies and regional policies are also important. parliament also called for democratic accountability for budgets in its report and encouraged active debate in the member states on their own reports and recommendations and on national programmes for reform and stabilisation of public finances. it must be admitted that the countries are too busy 'closing' their annual budgets and forget that there is also the european budget, which is an important part of the country's financial picture, hence my support for this report.
in writing. ‒ although the economic recovery in the eu is under way, it is still weak and uneven across member states and partly dependent on temporary and external factors. europe continues to face a significant investment deficit, which significantly undermines the eu's long-term growth potential. in the face of economic and financial turmoil in many emerging economies, economic growth is slowing down, leading to new strategic challenges to which the eu will have to respond. europe is an economic area that is highly dependent on imported resources compared to its competitors. i agree that this is why building a true circular economy is a prerequisite for future economic growth. the report refers to the 2016 annual growth survey package and the proposed policy mix. these cover investment, structural reforms and fiscal responsibility and are designed to further boost higher growth rates and strengthen the european recovery. the report also touches on the problem of the euro area, highlighting that, due to its high degree of interdependence and unity, it is an economic entity in which convergence with the most successful countries needs to be promoted and supported by greater coordination of national policies. i believe that focusing on greater competitiveness, growth and employment is of paramount importance in the context of the europe 2020 objectives, which is why i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination: annual growth survey 2016. after the economic crisis that affected the european union as a whole, the economic recovery differs from member states. some member states are experiencing high growth rates, while some member states are still facing low growth rates. despite some improvements in the indicators, unemployment rates remain too high in some regions. i support the proposed policy mix of investment, structural reform and fiscal responsibility, which is designed to further boost higher growth rates and strengthen the european recovery and convergence upwards.
in writing. ‒ report on the european semester for economic policy coordination: i supported the annual growth survey 2016 as it is a way of identifying economic policy priorities in the context of the 2016 policy coordination process. the aim of this report is to stimulate a debate at european level, including involving national parliamentarians, social partners and civil society, on three main issues: what combination of fiscal, monetary and structural policies should the european union pursue in the next 12-18 months; how to deepen policy coordination at euro area level; how to make decision-making on the priorities and recommendations of the european semester more democratic; and how to ensure the full implementation of the recommendations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination: annual growth survey 2016. this report represents parliament’s contribution to the definition of economic policy priorities for the 2016 european semester process of policy coordination, responding to the commission’s annual growth survey and related documents, including a draft recommendation for the economic policy of the euro area. the report stresses that the stability and growth pact should be implemented in full and that its flexibility should be reflected upon investment and structural reforms and in dealing with refugee and security challenges. we need a more solid and well balanced economic recovery while facing the consequences of the financial crisis and this is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ achieving sustainable prosperity and the european union's global competitiveness are the objectives pursued, inter alia, by the annual growth survey 2016, which i supported. i agree that to achieve the objectives set, stronger european coordination and investment in investment, structural reforms and fiscal responsibility of the member states are needed.
in writing. ‒ the unemployment rate within the eu is declining, but too slowly, and action is needed. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states in order to enable them to take the necessary measures to ensure that the union's financial interests are protected. parliament therefore proposes that structural reforms in this area should be pursued, but in a socially responsible manner, by promoting sustainable growth and by boosting investment. increasing investment in human resources is becoming one of the most important challenges of our time, and the eu can provide considerable assistance to member states through its instruments to promote social and economic cohesion. the call for member states to develop policies that will strengthen entrepreneurship among young people from an early age by providing opportunities for work placements and visits to companies is also of interest.
in writing. ‒ the unemployment rate has been declining since the second half of 2013. despite support from some macroeconomic policies and structural reforms, this is not happening fast enough to tackle unemployment and poverty. unemployment currently affects 9.9% of active citizens, or 23 million europeans. of these, about half are longterm unemployed. the third year of economic recovery is now underway, with growth forecast to reach 2% in the eu-28 and 1.8% in the euro area in 2016. however, the recovery process varies between member states and depends on temporary factors. according to the commission's report, employment and social disparities within and between member states persist. social developments continue to show additional divergence across the eu, which hinders growth, employment and cohesion. the report shall refer to the 2016 employment and social outlook. the main emphasis is on further investing in people and social development, structural reforms in a socially responsible manner, promoting sustainable growth through investment recovery, better use of european funds to promote social, economic and territorial cohesion and better coordination of the european semester. i agree that taking account of the specific microeconomic circumstances and implementing additional fair social structural reform is essential and i therefore supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination: employment and social aspects in the annual growth survey 2016. i support the emphasis in the report that the need to invest in social development is not only a means to ensure sustainable and inclusive economic development and convergence, but must also be a specific objective in itself. we need to invest in housing support, health care, child care and rehabilitation services. as the report rightly points out, quality and inclusive jobs are an essential pillar of social justice, promoting human dignity for all.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination: employment and social aspects in the annual growth survey 2016, as it is a matter of identifying social policy priorities in the context of the 2016 policy coordination process. the report highlights the importance of investing in people, the need for structural reforms and sustainable growth, better use of european funds and social inclusion. all the aspects that present a major challenge to european society and to the social policies of the member states are mentioned.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination: employment and social aspects in the annual growth survey 2016 report. the report suggests the importance of the employment indicators such as activity rate, youth unemployment and long-term unemployment, which were recently included in the annual growth survey, being employed for monitoring social developments in member states as well. the indicators will enable the assessment of internal imbalances in member states and eventually allow for redesigning their economic and social reforms if necessary. the report stresses the importance of ‘social fairness’, which should be crucial when designing employment and social policies, particularly when applying structural reforms that significantly harm vulnerable groups in society. i voted in favour of this report because it is directed towards ensuring sustainable and fair welfare systems and reducing social inequalities.
in writing. ‒ the single market, as the basis for the eu's existence, is also a major challenge. progress and globalisation, the development of modern technologies, have increased its power, but at the same time the potential for abuse, dishonest practices, exploitation and the like. i supported the strategy for the management of the single market with the majority of other members, because i am aware of its advantages and that, in its context, the development of the single market requires the updating of general practices. in supporting the report, we also made clear the rapporteur's wish that the single market should be included in the european semester, as it is an essential component of it, which unfortunately is too often taken for granted. the single market was recently felt by economists in the context of the migrant crisis, when they began to face problems with the free movement of goods. it is therefore right that the single market is constantly being upgraded, while at the same time requiring member states to strictly respect its rules. in fact, those who want to benefit from it must also keep their commitments, obligations, and agreements.
in writing. ‒ the european semester aims to increase the coordination of economic and fiscal policies in all eu member states with the aim of ensuring greater stability, fostering growth and employment and enhancing competitiveness. i believe that the single market is one of the foundations of the eu and is an essential instrument for improving growth, employment and competitiveness. current technological, social and behavioural changes are having a significant impact on the behaviour of businesses and consumers and are creating a number of economic opportunities and challenges that need to be addressed within the framework of the single market. the report highlights the role of the single market as an important tool for boosting eu competitiveness and creating jobs and growth. it also stressed the need to implement appropriate and fair economic reforms and to tackle bureaucracy and protectionism in an appropriate way in order to improve the productivity and competitiveness of the european economy. i agree that in order to strengthen the management of the single market at all levels and to increase the responsibility for this, it is necessary to clearly define the division of tasks at each level. this would provide greater incentives and clearly defined responsibilities for the implementation and enforcement of single market legislation, thus giving a new impetus to the single market. i believe it is imperative to exploit all potential opportunities to boost the eu's economy and competitiveness. i therefore supported the report on the implementation of the single market in the framework of the european semester 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the governance of the single market in the context of the european semester 2016. following the financial and economic crisis, which affected member states in different ways, we are facing low growth, high unemployment in some regions and strong international competition. the european semester aims to ensure greater stability, boost growth and employment and strengthen competitiveness. i support the report which reiterates that the single market is one of the foundations of the eu and stresses that the european semester must cover the single market and the policies for completing the single market in equal measure in order to successfully promote economic growth and stabilise the economies of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the governance of the single market in the framework of the european semester 2016, as the integration of the single market pillar into the european semester could make visible progress in terms of job creation, growth and competitiveness. the single market is a precious asset on which the european union's current and future economic prosperity depends. its untapped potential, estimated at €1 trillion, is both an opportunity and an incentive for the single market to work for the benefit of all of us.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the single market governance within the european semester 2016 report. the report highlights the need for the integration of european markets into a single market, with a system for regular monitoring, identification of country-specific barriers to such a market, and an evaluation of its integration and competitiveness. it also stresses the unexploited potential of an eu single market, which will effectively deliver jobs, growth and competitiveness, widely recognised as priorities at eu level. the report equally suggests that the process of integration must be accompanied by improved governance, greater transparency and easier access to information, and systematic implementation of existing eu legislation. i voted in favour of the report as it puts as priorities higher employment and growth and a special focus on smes, stating that these can be achieved through further market integration, while specifying the procedural mechanisms that need to accompany the process.
in writing. ‒ the proper functioning of the single market and the effective implementation of single market legislation are important in achieving structural and sustainable economic growth. i supported the report on the governance of the single market in the context of the european semester, as it recognises the current challenges and proposes what i believe are sound recommendations for maintaining the competitiveness of the european internal market on a global scale. decisive action is needed to ensure that the european union's future single market policy delivers tangible results and responds to citizens' needs.
in writing. ‒ tunisia's economy has been in serious trouble, its politically unstable environment and the influx of refugees from neighbouring war zones have taken a heavy toll on this otherwise successful african country, which has long been a model for a successful transition to democratisation in the region. the eu is tunisia's most important trading partner, and they are trying to reform the economic sector, opening up their economy to the west. the possibility of signing a free trade agreement in the future would enable tunisia to reduce the huge differences between the urban and rural environments. at the same time, it will be an opportunity for all their micro and small enterprises to access new markets. in supporting the opening of negotiations, meps also highlighted the example of developing countries that play by the economic rules, strive to make a breakthrough and actively reform their economies, and consequently have better opportunities and conditions for cooperation and trade with eu countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the opening of negotiations for a free trade agreement between the eu and tunisia. i support the upgrading of eu-tunisia relations, which have been close and fruitful for decades. the first trade cooperation agreement was signed by the two partners as early as 1969. i support close contacts with tunisia, the only country in the middle east in the process of democratic and political transition, which can serve as a model for the whole region. i also welcome the fact that the report encourages the union to take all possible measures to support tunisia in its democratic transition towards a stable and pluralist society.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the opening of negotiations for a free trade agreement between the eu and tunisia, as i believe that the agreement has more than just a trade dimension. since 2011, tunisia has consolidated its democratic transition by promulgating a new constitution on 26 january 2014 and holding parliamentary and presidential elections on 26 october and 23 november 2014 respectively. the fta will certainly contribute to tunisia's stability, strengthen its democracy and revive its economy, with a positive impact on consumer prices, employment, wages for skilled and unskilled workers and reducing inequalities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on opening of negotiations for an eu-tunisia free trade agreement. the aim of the agreement is to improve market access opportunities and the investment climate, and to support ongoing economic reforms in tunisia. this agreement builds on the existing free trade arrangement established 20 years ago by the euro-mediterranean association agreement, which focuses mainly on trade in goods. the new agreement facilities numerous areas of mutual interest such as trade in different sectors of goods and services, technical barriers to trade, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, investment protection, public procurement and competition policy. the agreement seeks to contribute to the stability of tunisia, to the strengthening of its democracy and modernisation of its economy by having a positive impact on consumer prices, employment and wages and this is the reason why i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i support the negotiations for a free trade agreement between the european union and tunisia, as they will bring tangible benefits to the european and tunisian economies and, consequently, contribute to maintaining the process of democratic and political transition in tunisia. political stability and economic development are essential to the prosperity and peace of the tunisian people.
in writing. ‒ at the last plenary session, i also supported the report on the work of the european ombudsman for 2014. the greatest number of complaints the ombudsman receives relates to (lack of) transparency in the eu institutions, and that is where i see the biggest problem too. it is a great european machine that does a lot of good, of course, but keeps too much of it behind closed doors or communicates very poorly with the public. not only the transparency of the work of the institutions, but also the transparency of the work of lobbyists is essential in the face of such a volume of content and the importance of the decisions taken in the institutions. the more than 23 000 citizens who asked the ombudsman for help in 2014 are proof that people have also found someone at european level who can help or protect them, and we must therefore give the european ombudsman greater credibility.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report which clearly expresses support for the european ombudsman and leads to greater transparency of public registers accessible on the internet, as well as supporting further investigations by the ombudsman. the report welcomes the introduction of the transparency register, which makes an important contribution to greater transparency in the work of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the european ombudsman's central priority is to ensure that citizens' rights are consistently respected and that the right to good administration reflects the highest standards expected of the eu institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. the ombudsman's essential role in working with the eu institutions is to help achieve greater openness and efficiency. it also plays an important role in ensuring that eu institutions are citizen-friendly and in strengthening their trust in the eu. the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2014 was presented in may 2015. in 2014, 23 072 citizens requested assistance from the european ombudsman emily o'reilly. her office thus registered 2079 complaints and 1823 requests for information. the report states that the ombudsman opened 342 inquiries, 325 of which were based on complaints and 17 on her own initiative. she's completed over 400 investigations. during the year, 20 30% of complaints related to transparency, mainly to the fact that the institutions did not provide access to documents and/or information. the report assesses the work of the european ombudsman and congratulates her on the good performance of her function. i support its efforts to provide the best possible service to the citizens and residents of europe and have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the annual activity report of the european ombudsman for 2014. according to numerous surveys, citizens' trust in the eu institutions is low. to strengthen citizens' trust, we need transparency and mutual control between the institutions, which is the task of the european ombudsman. the institutions of the european union must strive to provide the best possible service to the citizens and residents of europe. if we want to strengthen citizens' trust, we need to support the ombudsman's activities in 2014, which covered transparency in the eu institutions, transparency in lobbying, fundamental rights, ethical issues and citizens' participation in eu decision-making.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2014. i think the ombudsman has done a good job and closed many important complaints. at the same time, i believe it is a necessary institution that eu citizens could use more effectively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the annual report of the activities of the european ombudsman in 2014. 2014 was productive year for the european ombudsman as she began the implementation of the new strategy – towards 2019 – with a greater focus on the strategic issues of eu public administration affecting a great number of europeans. the office equally continued to resolve significant numbers of complaints from individuals, members of civil society organisations, businesses and other interests, and assisted many more in seeking solutions to their difficulties. in addition, joint efforts were made towards increasing lobbying transparency in the eu. conclusively, the european ombudsman office worked successfully in 2014 towards providing the best possible service to the citizens and residents of europe and this is the reason why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution approving the 2014 annual report of the european ombudsman. i support the purpose of the function, to receive complaints in cases of irregularities in the functioning of the institutions of the european union, and all the successful work done so far. but at this point i think we should consider a european ombudsman for fundamental rights within the eu, with wider powers and stricter powers to respond to the most flagrant violations of the rights and freedoms of citizens of the european union, as laid down in the eu charter of fundamental rights, before the national authorities of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i supported the parliament's resolution on the annual report of the european central bank, even though it is also relatively critical of some of the actions of this joint financial institution within emu. of course, these are not just criticisms but also warnings and recommendations. the parliament thus pointed to the significant increase in risks associated with the programme for the purchase of various government bonds, the disproportion between the terms and the level of interest rates for small and medium-sized enterprises compared to large ones, the lack of cooperation with parliament, and the like. however, meps are aware that the situation on financial markets is difficult and that the ecb is making a great effort to help ensure financial stability in some countries, which means that it has to resort occasionally to measures that until recently were considered unconventional.
in writing. ‒ according to the commission's latest autumn forecast, the economic recovery in the euro area is expected to strengthen, with real gdp expected to grow by 1.4% in 2015, 1.7% in 2016 and 1.8% in 2017. the report found that the ecb had resorted to unconventional monetary policy instruments in response to the complex environment characterised by the sovereign debt crisis, falling inflation, credit crunch and slow economic growth. the report also reflects concerns about the possible adverse effects and long-term effects of these instruments. abandoning these measures will be complex and will require careful planning. this will avoid undue market distortions, in particular as regards the proper, careful and timely organisation of the abandonment and the choice of the right moment. the high and varying levels of public and private debt in some member states, in addition to the still-present structural weaknesses in the banking sector, constitute an obstacle to the proper transmission of monetary policy. i believe that the unconventional monetary policy pursued by the ecb cannot, by itself, change this situation. a strong political commitment to implementing sustainable and socially balanced structural reforms is essential to boost economic growth. in view of the above, i voted against the adoption of the ecb annual report 2014 at the plenary session.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the annual report of the european central bank for 2014. following the financial and economic crisis, the euro area is experiencing weak growth and economic recovery, and a slow decline in unemployment. the forecasts for the coming years are similar. to further boost growth and contribute more effectively to reducing unemployment, we need a strong political commitment to implement sustainable and socially balanced structural reforms. i support the remark that the geographically uneven and modest recovery expected in the euro area in the coming years will need to be strengthened and the potential for economic growth increased in order to reduce the high unemployment rate in many euro area member states and to reduce the debt burden.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the annual report of the european central bank for 2014. this is an annual report produced by the european parliament on its own initiative. the 2014 report covers an interesting period of unconventional ecb measures aimed at combating the very low rate of inflation. this came at a time when most member states were abandoning their programmes following the debt crisis, while the economic recovery in the euro area was still in its infancy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european central bank annual report for 2014. the ecb’s report is composed of two chapters together with the annual accounts, a consolidated balance sheet of the eurosystem as at 31 december 2014, and a series of annexes detailing the institutional framework and human resource developments in 2014. the report, among other things, describes the economic situation in the euro area in 2014. according to the report, three important global developments have had a significant influence: 1) uneven growth developments; 2) falling prices of oil and other commodities; and 3) a weaker euro exchange rate. as the report highlights that fiscal consolidation slowed down and progress in structural reforms lost momentum, the ecb stresses that credible and decisive growth-enhancing reforms are more important than ever. the report also describes a series of actions that the ecb undertook to strengthen the stability of and confidence in the european financial sector, such as assessments of the financial system’s resilience and shock-absorbing capacity, and its links to the real economy. furthermore, the ecb’s analysis of financial stability risks in the euro area during 2014 shows there are both legacy issues from the global financial crisis and a broad set of emerging risks, linked primarily to low interest rates.
in writing. ‒ i supported the 2014 annual report of the european central bank (ecb), which focuses on the ecb's actions in relation to the sovereign debt crisis, the decline in inflation, the credit crunch and slow economic growth. the ecb is the eu's key organ for setting monetary policy and addressing macroeconomic challenges. i support the european central bank's strong commitment in august 2012 to do whatever is necessary to protect the euro. i believe that measures are needed to strengthen the geographically uneven and modest financial market recovery and to increase economic growth.
in writing. ‒ there was no major reservation within parliament on the start of negotiations between australia and new zealand for a free trade agreement. these are two comparatively developed countries with which the eu can only gain by a good agreement. in fact, it's surprising it didn't happen sooner. of course, this is not just about trade, but also about facilitating the internationalisation of companies from all countries into foreign markets. although these are areas that are practically on the other side of the globe from the eu's point of view, modern technology is now reducing the obstacles posed by distance. there are certainly opportunities for european companies in oceania, and we can learn a lot from their experience. i was happy to support the start of the negotiations and i don't expect any major problems.
in writing. ‒ australia and new zealand are among the eu's oldest and closest partners. they share the same values and are committed to increasing prosperity and security within a global system based on rules. both fully respect the rule of law and are currently committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of human and social rights and workers' rights. the eu concluded negotiations on a partnership agreement with new zealand on relations and cooperation on 30 july 2014 and on a framework agreement with australia on 22 april 2015. the motion for a resolution concerns the conclusion of free trade agreements between the eu and australia and new zealand. these agreements are intended to deepen trade and investment relations. however, there are serious concerns about these agreements and their impact on the european economy, especially agriculture. this is a very sensitive sector and would require taking into account the interests of all european producers, which has not yet happened. australia and new zealand also participated in the recently concluded trans-pacific partnership negotiations and in the east asia regional economic partnership negotiations, which bring together the most important trading partners. in view of the greater number of doubts and the prevalence of possible negative effects of the proposed agreements, i voted against the motion for a resolution in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the question for oral answer on the opening of negotiations for a free trade agreement with australia and new zealand. i support the strengthening and upgrading of relations between the european union and australia and new zealand, which are considered to be among the eu's oldest and closest partners. as the report rightly points out, the deepening of relations between the eu and the asia-pacific region will have a positive impact on economic growth in europe, and this fact should be taken into account in the european union's trade policy. australia and new zealand are a key part of this strategy and expanding and deepening trade with them as partners will contribute to achieving this objective.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the opening of negotiations for a free trade agreement with australia and new zealand. deepening relations between the eu and the asia-pacific region is very important for economic growth in europe. australia and new zealand are a key part of the eu's growth strategy. negotiations on two separate, modern, ambitious, balanced and comprehensive free trade agreements with australia and new zealand should be in line with the specific characteristics of these economies and should allow for the deepening of bilateral partnerships in a pragmatic manner.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the opening of fta negotiations with australia and new zealand. the resolution underlines the importance of deepening relations between the eu and the asia-pacific region for economic growth within europe and stresses that the full potential of the union cooperation strategies can only be realised by concluding high-quality ftas with both australia and new zealand. the agreements between the three economies should address many important sectors such as investment, trade, public procurement, energy, competition, anti-corruption, regulatory issues, technology research and, especially, the needs of smes. the agreements help develop the significant market potential of the eu and could serve as an example for future free trade agreements.
in writing. ‒ i support the opening of free trade negotiations with australia and new zealand, as i believe that the agreement would further strengthen trade and investment relations and cooperation in the field of international standards, without compromising consumer, environmental, social and labour rights. this step will have a positive impact on economic growth in the eu and represent a success for eu trade policy in the asia-pacific market.
in writing. ‒ the illegal trade in pets is on the rise, as is the misuse of animals and the illegal trade in exotic species, often linked to organised crime. i therefore supported the proposed resolution which opens the way to technically harmonised cat and dog registers in all eu countries and also encourages the possibility of establishing databases for other pets. the aim of the proposals is to reduce illegal trade in pet animals and to ensure adequate traceability within the eu. it should be noted that in many countries there are already compulsory systems for the identification and registration of pet animals, but these differ so much that cross-border exchange of information is not possible. i am therefore pleased that we will soon have on the agenda a coordinated proposal for a regulation which will give the commission or the member states the possibility of setting up national pet registers and registering all breeders and sellers of pets, which will have an impact on reducing illegal trade in pets and improving traceability.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the introduction of harmonised systems for the registration of pet animals for several reasons. in view of the increasing illegal trade in pet animals, the member states of the ec should exchange data on registered dogs and cats. the illegal trade, including in wild and exotic animal species, increasingly linked to organised crime, increases the risk of the spread of infectious diseases. appropriate action will reduce the possibilities for document forgery and illegal trade, thereby improving animal welfare, protecting public and animal health and ensuring traceability within the ec.
in writing. ‒ ngos, law enforcement agencies, competent authorities and veterinarians have evidence of an increasing amount of illegal trade in pets, widespread abuses of the rules on movements of pets, avoidance of inspections and forgery of documents. according to them, the illegal trade in domestic animals, including wild and exotic animals, is linked to serious crime and organised crime. despite recent improvements, there are still considerable problems with regard to the data in pet passports. pet animals in the illegal trade are often kept in inappropriate conditions, are not socialized and are more at risk of disease. i think it's important to point out that as many as 70% of the new diseases that have appeared in humans in recent decades are of animal origin. certain requirements for the identification and registration of pet animals already exist in most member states, but most of these databases are not yet harmonised and traceability of pet movements across the eu is limited. i agree that harmonised pan-european requirements for the identification and registration of pet animals would be an important step forward in the protection of animal welfare and public health. that is why i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the introduction of harmonised systems for the registration of pet animals in the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the introduction of harmonised systems for the registration of pet animals in the member states. data from a number of non-governmental organisations and competent authorities indicate that we are witnessing an increase in the illegal trade in pet animals, widespread abuse of the rules on movements of pet animals, avoidance of inspections and falsification of documents. as the report finds, the keeping of wild animals as pets poses a significant threat to the welfare of these animals and to human health and safety. i therefore support the call on the commission to take decisive and effective action to combat the illegal trade in pet animals, including wild animals kept as pets.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the introduction of harmonised systems for the registration of pet animals in the member states. the resolution recommends, inter alia, that member states should exchange data on registered dogs and cats, given the growing illegal pet trade. animal abuse is widespread, the risk of spreading infectious diseases is increasing, and the illegal trade in animals, including wild and exotic species, is increasingly linked to organised crime. technical harmonised registers for cats and dogs should be provided, as these measures will protect public and animal health.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the non-binding resolution on the introduction of compatible systems for the registration of pet animals across member states. the trafficking of pets, including wild and exotic animals, is increasingly connected to organised crime and poses a public health risk. the resolution calls for compatible databases of cats and dogs and other pet animals in all member states. registered pets, together with eu-wide data sharing, would reduce opportunities for falsifying documents and illegal trade, help to trace sources of disease outbreaks and restrict animal abuse and bad treatment.
in writing. ‒ the humanitarian situation in yemen has been unsustainable since 26 march last year, when clashes broke out between the houthis and saudi-led government or coalition forces. the constant bombing not only of rebel sites, but of all other infrastructure and cultural heritage has become part of the daily lives of yemenis. it is only a matter of time before the latter join the wave of refugees heading for europe. saudi arabia is undoubtedly creating a certain amount of dirty work behind which business interests are hiding, and europeans and european politics as a whole are too indifferent to these problems. europeans have a poor understanding of the way of life in this part of the world, and a lack of desire to learn more about the culture and customs of the people who live in this area. this is mainly due to the strategic interests of the oil and gas rich region, which is also the reason for the attacks by saudi arabia. the situation is much more complex than is often presented in public, and we must point this out. in the resolution calling for the commission and the council to be more involved in bringing peace to yemen, i also supported the amendment calling on the eu's high representative for foreign affairs and security policy to launch an initiative to impose an eu arms embargo on saudi arabia, which is blatantly violating international humanitarian law by its intervention in yemen.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the humanitarian situation in yemen. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the unscr 1544 (2003), which provides for the establishment of a un security council resolution on the situation in yemen. all this is the result of a military intervention in yemen led by saudi arabia. i support the report which stresses the need for coordinated humanitarian action under the leadership of the united nations and calls on all states to help meet humanitarian needs.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the humanitarian situation in yemen. i am concerned about the situation and the violence that is going on in yemen. the resolution calls on the eu to take all necessary measures to ensure that the situation in the country is not further worsened.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the humanitarian situation in yemen. the resolution expresses serious concern with regard to the deterioration of the humanitarian situation in yemen. namely, 21 million yemeni people (82% of the total population) are currently in need of humanitarian assistance and two million children are prevented from attending schools. a ceasefire aimed at stopping attacks against civilians, medical and aid workers, ground fighting and bombing in yemen is urgently needed to allow life-saving aid to reach the yemeni people. the resolution equally urges all parties in yemen’s civil war and their foreign backers to engage in a new round of peace negotiations and seek a political settlement. i voted in favour of this resolution as only a political, inclusive and negotiated solution to the conflict can restore peace and preserve unity in yemen.
in writing. ‒ the military conflict in yemen has created a catastrophic humanitarian situation, affecting populations throughout the country, with serious consequences for the entire region and posing a threat to international peace and security. i therefore support the calls in the european parliament's resolution, which, among other things, call for the parties to the conflict to respect humanitarian law and international human rights law. it is essential to protect civilians, prevent direct attacks on civilian infrastructure and allow safe humanitarian routes for the civilian population's livelihoods.
i would like to congratulate mr tarabella and the other shadow rapporteurs, commissioner, on the difficult process of bringing the fruit and vegetables and milk schemes to the end of the year and on other crops. this is a very important measure. a measure that, as already mentioned, on the one hand improves the eating habits of children, which is very important for their health, and on the other hand allows fruit and vegetables to be on the school menu and to be transferred to the homes later on. the important thing is that the funds have been increased. two hundred and fifty million euros a year is a lot of money. for slovenia, for example, this also means an extra eur 300 000 per year. in slovenia, we have been introducing locally produced products to the meals of young people in primary school for many years through the traditional honey breakfast. and this measure now allows such traditional high-quality products to be included in this meal. i sincerely congratulate you and i believe that the member states will be happy to take advantage of this scheme for the benefit of the children and all of us.
in writing. healthy eating habits are an important factor in health and a healthy lifestyle, and young age is key to their formation. i therefore welcome the consolidation of the previously separate schemes for the distribution of milk, fruit and vegetables in schools and the allocation of an additional eur 20 million to finance them and to finance the teaching of healthy eating. i regret that only a few member states have systematically organised and compulsory or universally available free school meals in primary and secondary schools. this is particularly bad for children from disadvantaged families, as the quality of the packaged meals prepared by parents themselves is highly dependent on the socioeconomic situation of the families. therefore, more should be done to promote and encourage universal free school meals, for example through eu best practice and peer learning projects and financial support from relevant european funds or programmes.
the regulation, the document, should therefore, in the opinion of the rapporteur, improve competitiveness, transparency and reduce red tape for users. the commissioner said that the modernisation of ports offered a glimpse into the future. of course, ports are the gateways to the world. the problem of jobs has also been raised several times today. of course, we're not just talking about jobs here. we want decent jobs for decent pay and therefore we want the negotiations on collective agreements to continue properly, because safety and social rights are of course also paramount. given that the aim is to achieve as much equality as possible, also in terms of the european budget, i expect the commission to make sure that, as far as possible, ports are developed in a balanced way, taking into account their diversity and advantages.
congratulations to my colleague javor for a job well done and a report. i'll only touch on two problems myself. first, illicit tobacco trade is, of course, a global problem, costing eu member states vast sums of public revenue annually, estimated at up to €37 billion. the point is that we are also damaging the welfare of the european taxpayers in this way. and the other is the area of public procurement. it seems to me that we only repeat year after year that there are enormous errors and irregularities in this area, but i think we could also calculate the actual impact of these irregularities on the european budget and, of course, take action, but the dream of a european prosecutor general is still far off and, of course, the competent authorities of the member states must do more to prosecute crime and corruption in this area by then.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work, and i think that tomorrow is women's day, but we should be talking about this more often, not just on women's days. we have made some good progress recently, but there are still some areas of inequality, and i would like to highlight here the area of entrepreneurship and the area of women's representation in management and on the boards of large companies. we need to abandon these stereotypes that are emerging in the business world, in politics and in society in general and of course allow for a greater participation of women in decision-making. this would also, in my view, contribute to greater business efficiency and higher gdp. but of course, we will only make real progress when we no longer need quotas and artificial incentives to improve women's participation, but when it is in itself artificial.
i am pleased that the statistical indicators in the european commission's report for slovenia are better than they were, but citizens are not yet feeling this improvement. this confirms the assumption that statistics are not always the most realistic representation of the real situation, because structural problems remain with us. the continuation of pension reform is necessary, changes in the health system are necessary, the tax relief of the economy and the middle class is also necessary. changes are needed in the judiciary and in public administration. privatization is happening in our country, but not in the way we wanted. we've recapitalized the banks, but the banking system is not working. but the current refugee and migration crisis must not be a reason for reform to continue, or even a cover for political manoeuvring in many state institutions. the same structures that have already caused damage are returning to the management of state property. i'm really worried about my country, slovenia.
in writing. ‒ as i said at the last mini-session of the european parliament in brussels, i am very pleased that the so-called animal health act was voted on. the proposed regulation brings together 40 different rules into one single regulation, linking animal health to human health, regulating the more responsible use of antibiotics in veterinary medicine and strengthening the fight against infectious diseases. the new rules will give farmers or animal owners more responsibility for animal husbandry and the use of veterinary food, which will require more appropriate awareness-raising by veterinarians. i am also pleased that the commission will be able to take immediate action, in consultation with other stakeholders, to prevent the spread of communicable diseases and thereby reduce the possibility of major economic damage to agriculture. in addition, the proposed regulation also establishes a register of professional pet breeders and traders, which i welcome. i am confident that this will have a positive effect on the illegal trade in these animals, which in some places is a very lucrative business for the mafia. member states are also given the possibility to set up pet registries, which would further restrict illegal trade. if the member states take advantage of this, i would urge them to use common sense, otherwise the system will only become more collectively bureaucratic. i supported the motion, of course.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution because it is necessary to establish a legislative framework at european level for animal diseases transmissible to humans. the proposal is a good one, as it seeks to establish a common, simplified and transparent legislative framework, while also trying to take into account the new challenges associated with the emergence of new types of diseases and the return of old ones.
in writing. ‒ transmissible animal diseases, such as avian influenza, can have a major negative impact on food safety and public health and can have a negative impact on the economy. since such diseases can spread across national borders, coordinated action at eu level is necessary. in 2013, the european commission presented a legislative proposal on animal health, introducing a single and simplified regulatory framework for the control of various animal diseases. the new law will clearly define the responsibilities and activities of all those involved in animal health. disease prevention and control measures will be a priority, taking into account antimicrobial resistance. it is intended to establish a list of priority animal diseases, including those transmissible to humans, and their classification. it is noted that animal health is linked to animal welfare standards and therefore pain and suffering during controls should be avoided. following the negotiations in the trilogue, the council adopted a first reading position on the regulation on transmissible animal diseases and amending and repealing certain acts in the field of animal health. in view of the above, i wish the procedure to continue at second reading and therefore voted against the amendment rejecting the european council's position in the plenary, thereby supporting the recommendation for a second reading.
in writing. - i voted against the amendment. the agreement between the european parliament and the council on transmissible animal diseases and amending and repealing certain acts in the field of animal health has been definitively approved. the new regulation brings together 50 existing animal health decisions and updates and simplifies the existing legal framework. the committee on agriculture was able to find a compromise between the many amendments proposed and thus produce a balanced report. in addition to effective reporting and cooperation between all member states, we also need more effective cooperation between the european union and third countries.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a regulation on the 'animal health act'. i believe that the adoption is a great achievement, because it allows us to link animal health and welfare with human health, and with the responsible use of antibiotics we will counter the rise of antimicrobial resistance, and veterinary services and breeders will be able to focus more on the prevention of infectious diseases. in addition, some 40 different regulations are combined into one.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation concerning animal health, in view of the adoption of a regulation that would update animal health rules. the text specifically underlines the importance of the prevention of diseases such as avian flu, which are transmissible between animals and from animals to humans. it further urges for a more prudent use of antimicrobial medicinal products in animals, where member states are advised to collect relevant, comparable and meticulous data on the actual use of antimicrobial medicinal products in animals. the report aims to prevent the deterioration of animal health and its negative effects on human health, which is the reason why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ good animal health is a key contributor to the sustainability of our agriculture and fisheries. we need to ensure that farmers have access to the right tools to prevent and treat animal diseases. the purpose of the legislative proposal i supported is to lay down rules for the prevention and control of animal diseases which can be transmitted to animals or humans. the proposal thus aims to establish a single, simplified, transparent and clear regulatory framework, taking into account new challenges such as the possible emergence of new diseases, the recurrence of epidemics or changes in trading conditions.
in writing. ‒ i was very pleased to support the proposed agreement between the european parliament and the council on the proposal for a regulation on an aid scheme for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk to educational establishments. it's a very important measure to improve the eating habits of children, which is very important for their health, and to make it possible for fruits and vegetables to be on the school menu and to be passed on to the homes later on. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the services provided by the public authorities. in slovenia, we have been introducing locally produced products to primary school meals for many years through the traditional honey breakfast. and this measure now allows such traditional high-quality products to be included in this meal. i believe that the member states will be happy to take advantage of this scheme for the benefit of children and all of us.
in writing. ‒ i support the rapporteur's proposal, as it is necessary to teach young people about healthy eating and to get them used to it already at school. this proposal seeks to achieve a positive move in this very light. it focuses mainly on the distribution of fruit and dairy products in schools, both of which have a significant impact on healthy eating. in this way, we are also trying to achieve greater interconnection between the agricultural sector, public health and the education system.
in writing. ‒ between 2005 and 2010, consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables and dairy products fell, particularly among children. in addition, the number of overweight and obese children has increased. educational establishments play an important role in the nutrition of children and young people, which is why the commission introduced the school milk scheme and the school fruit and vegetables scheme years ago. in 2014, the commission proposed to merge these two schemes into a single aid scheme for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk to educational establishments. the scheme encourages healthy eating habits and contributes to the consumption of locally produced products. in addition, financial resources will be increased and better distributed between countries. products distributed under the school scheme shall not contain added sugars and shall not contain added artificial flavour enhancers. in selecting products, member states will also take into account objective criteria of seasonality and health and environmental aspects. they will encourage local or regional sourcing, organic products and short supply chains. i agree that the supply of healthy, fresh and local food products to educational establishments is essential, and i therefore voted in favour of the report, thereby supporting the proposal to amend the regulation on the aid scheme for the supply of fruit, vegetables and milk to educational establishments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the regulation on aid schemes for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk to educational establishments. healthy eating habits are an important factor in health and a healthy lifestyle, and young age is key to shaping them. i therefore welcome the consolidation of the previously separate schemes for the distribution of milk, fruit and vegetables in schools and the allocation of an additional eur 20 million to finance them and to finance the teaching of healthy eating. i regret that only a few member states have systematically organised and compulsory or universally available free school meals in primary and secondary schools. this is particularly bad for children from disadvantaged families, as the quality of the packaged meals prepared by parents themselves is highly dependent on the socioeconomic situation of the families. therefore, more should be done to promote and encourage universal free school meals, for example through eu best practice and peer learning projects and financial support from relevant european funds or programmes.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1308/2013 and regulation (eu) no 1306/2013 as regards the aid scheme for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk to educational establishments, as i believe that in recent times, especially among children, the consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables and dairy products has been declining sharply, and the number of overweight children has been increasing, precisely because of poor eating habits. in addition, foods are heavily processed and contain a lot of added sugar, salt, fat or additives. i believe that we need to do more to promote healthy eating habits and the use of locally produced products, which is certainly covered by this regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report supporting the aid scheme for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in educational establishments. in the context of the declining consumption of healthy food, particularly among children, and the increasing number of child obesity cases, the report calls for simpler procedures as well as additional funding for schools that offer children free milk and fruit. the scheme is voluntary and works towards the promotion of a healthy diet, organic farming, local food and the reduction of food waste.
in writing. ‒ data show that fruit, vegetable and milk consumption is falling across europe, while 20 million children in the eu are overweight, while adolescents on average eat only 30 to 50 per cent of the recommended daily intake of fruit and vegetables. i therefore supported the proposal for new legislation to fund a scheme to distribute milk, fruit and vegetables in schools and to introduce healthy eating teaching. i believe that the scheme will help to promote awareness of healthy eating habits and the consumption of locally produced products.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposed regulation on the reform of port systems in europe. i am pleased that the rapporteur and the team have taken the proposal to the stage where negotiations with the council can begin. with today's decision, we have set out the rules for member states and port authorities who would like to limit the number of service providers. we also stipulated that ports will have to keep separate accounts for activities financed by public funds, while being careful in setting the fee for services performed by internal operators. these rules will have to be established in a transparent and non-discriminatory manner. in addition, the states are also required to appoint supervisory authorities in order to ensure adequate control of the level of charges for the provision of port services.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal as it aims above all to make the ten-t system more efficient, interconnected and sustainable by seeking to build a framework that increases the productivity of ports. at the same time, this proposal also aims to help them adapt to changes in transport and logistics. i support the modernisation of port services and operations, while at the same time creating an environment that is attractive for greater investment in ports. the proposal also aims to increase competition between ports, which is now at such a low level that monopoly abuse may be common. it is also important to establish common eu rules determining when state aid to ports is allowed, which must exclude aid intended for the construction of additional port infrastructure and transport routes.
in writing. ‒ ports connect europe with the world. european ports facilitate more than one third of eu trade and play a major role in the transport sector, as well as representing the potential for new jobs and investment. in 2013, the european commission tried to introduce the liberalisation of port services. the commission is working towards a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable operation of the ten-t network by developing a framework that improves the capacity of all ports and takes into account current traffic and logistics requirements. the purpose of the regulation is to prevent unfair competition between ports and to increase the business efficiency of port services. the proposal also aims to ensure financial transparency for ports, transparency and reduce red tape for users. unemployment is a major problem today and modernising ports can create new jobs, especially in the eu's coastal regions. taking into account the diversity and advantages of european ports, the aim should be to develop them on an equal and balanced basis. it is important to support the successful operation of the ten-t network, which also includes slovenia, and to promote the development of ports and the creation of new jobs in general. in view of the above, i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation establishing a framework for market access to port services and financial transparency for ports.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for market access to port services and financial transparency for ports. liberalisation means for the consumer to have a choice, and for entrepreneurs and businesses to have to work hard and do a good job. all of us who grew up under socialism know firsthand what it means to have no choice. the eu's services sector remains heavily wound up in vat, at a cost to consumers, businesses and society as a whole. i therefore welcome the liberalisation of services in ports, but at the same time i regret that the procedure for adopting the regulation has been unnecessarily prolonged. although some would like to see the changes introduced more quickly, i believe that the regulation is an appropriate compromise, giving existing and potential new suppliers adequate time to prepare for the changed working conditions.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for market access to port services and financial transparency for ports, as the regulation provides the much needed legal certainty for ports, increases the efficiency of port operations and reduces the prices of port services. the establishment of framework conditions and the modernisation of port service activities are key to creating a stimulating and promising environment for the development of ports, while also attracting new investment to ports. i believe that the regulation can take an important step towards a fair and level playing field for all european ports.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report that regulates market access to port services and financial transparency of ports. the report is designed to support the increase in their efficiency and the reduction in costs of services supplied at the ports. it underlines the prevention of price abuse and market distortions while boosting maritime trade flows and allows for ports to keep their current service arrangements, provided they meet minimum requirements. i voted in favour of this report as it aims for more transparent and fairly priced eu maritime port facilities.
in writing. ‒ the european network includes over 300 ports, which directly or indirectly generate more than three million jobs. they are characterized by diversity in size, management and organization. in support of the idea of advanced and balanced joint european action on ports, which would, inter alia, improve the financial transparency of port operations and maintain their competitiveness, i supported the launch of tripartite negotiations between the commission, the council and the committee responsible.
in writing. ‒ i welcome and support the proposed regulation. this is a significant update of the outdated system for setting the criteria for reporting the harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps) and the housing price indices (hpis) at eu and member state level. the hicp is the basis for inflation, which underpins all major economic and monetary decisions. it is therefore all the more important that the system is objective and that the statistics clearly reflect the reality. the proposed regulation updates the 1995 regulation and takes account in particular of the new eu decision-making brought about by the treaty of lisbon the competence of the commission or eurostat to adopt implementing and delegated acts. the important issue raised by the rapporteur seems to me to be the requirement for monthly preparation of hicp estimates by member states, which will improve the quality of the provisional inflation data.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal for a regulation. it provides a uniform framework for the design, compilation and presentation of harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps) and of house price indices (hpis) at union, national and sub-national level. the hicp provides a measure of inflation, which is used, among other things, as an important input in the deflation of economic values such as wages, rents and interest rates, and therefore underpins economic and monetary decisions. it is therefore of the utmost importance that those statistics are objective, impartial and comparable across all member states and product areas. the hicp regulation in force was adopted in 1995. in view of developments in the field of consumer price statistics, it is necessary to revise this framework in order to ensure the greatest possible comparability for the main users of the hicp.
in writing. ‒ harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps) are designed to measure inflation in a harmonised way in all member states. the commission and the european central bank use the hicp in their assessment of price stability in the member states. regulation (ec) no 2494/95 on the hicp was adopted in 1995 and circumstances have changed since then, so that it is necessary to adapt that legislation. the commission proposed to have a single framework for the development, compilation and presentation of harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps) and of housing price indices (hpis) at union, national and sub-national level. following the trialogue negotiations, the regulation also contains a reference to the owner-occupied housing price index (ooh), as the share of owner-occupied housing varies widely between member states. the commission will carry out a study on ooh and there is a possibility that this index will be included in the context of the hicp. the regulation also recommends a study of the cost of living index, in order to complement the hicp index with additional information related to inflation. provisional inflation data are very important for the conduct of monetary policy, and i therefore believe that it is crucial to provide objective and impartial statistics with the greatest possible comparability for hicp users. i voted for the report because of what it says.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on harmonised indices of consumer prices and repealing the regulation. the last regulation in force is more than 20 years old and it is therefore necessary to adopt a new regulation which will be in line with the new developments in eu decision-making brought about by the treaty of lisbon. we need objective, impartial and accurate data to be able to compare between member states. i support the commission's contribution to the financing of pilot studies, where appropriate, and its report to the european parliament and the council every five years assessing the main findings of the pilot studies.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on harmonised indices of consumer prices and repealing regulation (ec) no 2494/95, as the new regulation provides a single european framework for harmonised indices of consumer prices at both union and national level. i believe that the hicp provides a relevant criterion that allows statistics on the cost of living to be objective, unbiased and comparable across all member states. i believe that the regulation is absolutely necessary, not only to revise the 1995 hicp framework and to take account of the eu decision-making innovation of the lisbon treaty, but also to provide a benchmark for inflation, which is used, among other things, as an important indicator of the deflation of economic values. the latter is the basis for economic and monetary decisions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report concerning the harmonisation of consumer price indices. the report suggests modernising existing rules to enable objective informing on price stability within the eu and monitor the effects of the european central bank’s monetary policy. it formulates a uniform legal framework for the creation, improvement and diffusion of harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicp) and of housing prices indices (hpi) data at the national and sub-national eu level. hicp are particularly significant as they provide the inflation measure used for deflating economic values serving as the basis for economic and monetary policy decisions. it is essential that these statistics are objective and comparable across all member states and all product areas, as quality statistics and their comparability are of fundamental importance for all eu citizens, researchers and those responsible for public policy.
in writing. ‒ the existing framework for the provision of harmonised indices of consumer prices is made up of the 1995 regulation and 20 implementing regulations, and as such is unrevised and in some cases obsolete. legislation therefore needs to be adapted and harmonised for a number of reasons, in particular to provide accurate information on price stability within the union and to monitor the effects of monetary policy pursued by the european central bank. in line with the above, i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on harmonised indices of consumer prices and repealing regulation (ec) no 2494/95.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed annual report on the protection of the eu's financial interests and the fight against fraud, which analyses in depth the situation in the fight against irregularities and proposes an appropriate set of measures to intensify the fight against fraud. financial fraud is unfortunately inherent in all areas, and the eu budget is no exception. the commission notes that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. this suggests that despite the eu's many efforts to combat irregularities, there are still many reservations. it is also important to distinguish between irregularities and fraud, as the former may occur unintentionally, while the latter are deliberately aimed at damaging public funds. to prevent both, therefore, there is a need for enhanced cooperation between member states and the european institutions, in particular the commission, and on the other hand, a need to simplify the system of rules governing the implementation of the system of payments from the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ i support the report because i think it covers the subject of the european investment bank, which is trying to align its policies with eu policies. i support the efforts made in the report to increase the eib's power and role, but also its transparency, which leads to greater accountability to the european parliament. transparency and accountability to parliament are essential, as the complexity of the bank's operations will increase as it develops.
in writing. ‒ the committee on budgetary control has assessed the commission's report entitled 'protection of the european union's financial interests fight against fraud annual report 2014'. two areas of concern are highlighted, tobacco smuggling and public procurement. illicit tobacco trade is a global problem that costs eu member states huge sums of public revenue every year. estimates suggest that they lose as much as 37 billion euros. this is detrimental to the well-being of european taxpayers and also has a negative impact on the functioning of the internal market, as it distorts competition and deteriorates conditions for smes. the second problem is the area of public procurement. i am aware that there are many errors and irregularities in this area. however, it would be possible to calculate the actual impact of these irregularities on the european budget and to determine how to respond. we need a european prosecutor general. in relation to the necessary anti-fraud measures, reporting and monitoring should be improved and cooperation between institutions increased. for this reason, i supported the report in plenary and voted for its adoption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the 2014 annual report on the protection of the european union's financial interests the fight against fraud. the fight against fraud and corruption is important both from the point of view of ethical and moral principles and from the point of view of increasing the european union's competitiveness in the world economy. by spending taxpayers' money transparently, in line with the objectives of the european union and the interests of eu citizens, we make an important contribution to strengthening citizens' trust in the eu institutions, which has been gradually eroding in recent years. it's important to distinguish between fraud and irregularity. not all irregularities are frauds. to combat irregularities more effectively and to implement rules and requirements, we need transparent and simple rules, enhanced cooperation between member states and the european commission, timely provision of accurate data and a uniform approach by member states to detect and report irregularities. we need strong political will to fight fraud at both national and european level.
in writing. ‒ report on the 2014 annual report on the protection of the european union's financial interests fight against fraud i supported the report, as i consider it extremely important that eu funds are managed in accordance with the rules and principles of sound financial management. it is important to recognise that the protection of the eu's financial interests is a central element of the treaty on the functioning of the eu and that we have a shared responsibility both within the eu and in the individual member states to protect the financial interests of the union. i consider that such measures are an important step towards a better protection of the financial interests of the union against crime, while at the same time increasing efficiency in the fight against financial irregularities and fraud. i believe that by taking such action we preserve the confidence of european citizens in the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the annual report 2014 on the protection of the eu’s financial interests – fight against fraud, which targets prevention of financial fraud and strengthening of financial transparency. according to article 325(5) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) the commission is mandated to report each year on its work with member states to combat fraud and ensure sound management of eu funds. in 2014, member states reported 1 649 irregularities as fraudulent (both suspected and established fraud), involving eur 538 million in eu funds. the report urges member states to make greater efforts in fraud detection and combat, ensuring that their controls are risk-based and well-targeted. it equally acclaims the progress made at national level to implement new rules and policies aimed at strengthening the fight against fraud in the near future.
in writing. ‒ report on the annual report 2014 on the protection of the european union's financial interests combating fraud, which i supported, notes that the number of irregularities reported to the commission in 2014 increased compared to 2013. public procurement and the increase in tobacco smuggling are particularly critical areas. i believe that all necessary measures should be taken to prevent irregularities to the detriment of budgetary resources, whether they result from ignorance of complex rules and requirements or fraud. the report proposes, inter alia, the establishment of a system of rigorous indicators to measure corruption in the member states, the amendment of the rules to better protect whistleblowers and the transparency of lobbying.
in writing. ‒ i also supported the report on the mainstreaming of gender equality in the work of the european parliament, prepared by ms mlinarjeva. every year on 8 march, we celebrate international women's day, or as we call it in slovenia, women's day, which recognizes the struggle of women for their equality. unfortunately, this is not guaranteed in many areas. i myself am aware that women need to be respected every day and in all areas, whether in social, professional or everyday life. many women, in addition to their professional and social and public work, also play an important role in motherhood and child rearing. the report proposed concerns the proper integration of gender equality in the work of the european parliament, but the proposals it advocates should be applied to all areas of social life. despite the great progress made in the fight for equality in europe, large gender gaps still exist in many areas and efforts need to be made at both eu and national level to reduce such anomalies.
in writing. ‒ the european union recognises equality between women and men as a fundamental right and a common value of the eu. at international level, gender mainstreaming is accepted as a strategy for achieving gender equality. in practice, this means taking gender into account in the design, implementation and evaluation of policies, regulatory measures and programmes aimed at promoting equality between women and men and at promoting the fight against discrimination. in 1996, the commission introduced a two-pronged approach: mainstreaming gender into all policies and at the same time implementing measures to tackle gender inequalities. since 2009, a gender equality network has been established in the european parliament, involving some members and some staff of the european parliament. all members of the network were given the opportunity to reply to a questionnaire, which was then used to produce a report on the mainstreaming of the principle of gender equality in the work of the european parliament. they found that there are some examples of good practice, but that coordination could be improved, both within parliament and with other institutions. on the basis of the replies, it is proposed that a procedure be introduced to incorporate the principle of gender equality into the rules of procedure of the european parliament. i believe it is important to promote activities to mainstream the principle of gender equality, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mainstreaming of gender equality in the work of the european parliament. the definition of gender equality is broader than equality, covering formal-legal equality as well as de facto equality in everyday life. in recent years, some progress has been made, but there are still many shortcomings. research shows that in october 2013, 17.8% of board members in leading european companies were women. without actions at eu level, such as the european strategy for gender equality and the legislative initiative on women's quotas on boards, it would have been even less than 14%. reducing the gender gap is an area where the eu must play a visible and important role, as it is not enough to act only at the end of the chain.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the mainstreaming of the principle of gender equality in the work of the european parliament, as i believe that the principle promotes the fight against discrimination on grounds of sex. gender inequalities persist, particularly in leadership positions. we need to abandon the stereotypes that exist in politics, business and society and allow women to participate more in decision-making. gender equality and thus greater inclusion of women is, in my view, the way to a more competitive and fairer europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on gender mainstreaming in the work of the european parliament. gender mainstreaming represents the integration of a gender viewpoint into the preparation, design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of policies, regulatory measures and spending programmes. the goal is to promote equality between women and men, and combat discrimination. the report calls for continuing expansion of the gender mainstreaming system and its regular monitoring across policy areas. it appeals for the creation of a supporting environment for women to take part in decision-making positions at all levels and underlines the importance of measures for the reconciliation of work and private and family life. particular emphasis is placed on the importance of a constant struggle and continuing work towards gender equality.
in writing. ‒ the report notes that the representation of women in key decision-making positions at political and administrative level, including in parliament's political groups, remains low, and calls for the removal of structural obstacles to the mainstreaming of the principle of gender equality. as i support efforts to create an environment in which women can run for decision-making positions at all levels, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ although i fully agree with many of the conclusions of the proposed report on the situation of refugees and asylum seekers in the eu, i abstained from voting. this is not to say that i am unaware of the problems faced by refugee women and children fleeing war zones in the middle east or north africa. i strongly condemn the inhumane methods used by smugglers to bring desperate people to europe, from physical to psychological abuse, violence and so on. we'll do our best to help the refugees by bringing peace to the war zones, all the rest is just bandages on an open wound. migration is europe's biggest challenge, and in tackling it, we need to be realistic and tell people what to expect and how europe will welcome them. i would like to stress once again that all efforts must be directed towards establishing peace so that refugees can return to their homes. the other refugees who are already with us must be given appropriate treatment, which must be in accordance with international humanitarian law.
in writing. ‒ according to the data of the un high commissioner for refugees for january 2016, 55% of asylum seekers arriving in greece were women and children. there are worrying reports of women and children being prostituted for survival, to pay smugglers to continue their journey to the eu and apply for asylum there. it is therefore urgently necessary to open safe and legal asylum routes and to counter smuggling networks so that women, children and the disabled can find refuge without risking their lives. more often than not, women and girls seeking asylum in the eu come from countries where their regimes do not recognise their equal rights with men but oppress them. gender-based violence cannot currently be prevented in reception and transit centres in the european union, as there is no provision for separate sleeping areas and sanitary facilities. women must be provided with adequate living and hygiene conditions. in addition, they should be provided with access to gynaecological health services if they need them. the european union's asylum policy must take into account the experiences and needs of women at every stage. i believe that the voice of asylum seekers and refugees needs to be strengthened, and i have therefore supported the report in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on the situation of refugees and asylum seekers in the eu. i regret that we have not been able to bridge some of the differences that have arisen in the preparation of this report. i support special care and special treatment for vulnerable groups: pregnant women, elderly women and children. i cannot support the resolution because it contains some statements with which i do not agree. we need to treat refugees and asylum seekers humanely and with dignity, but at the same time responsibly. a more realistic and reasonable proposal would be desirable, one that would address more specific needs and procedures that would take into account the needs of women.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the draft report on the situation of refugees and asylum seekers in the eu, as i think it is well-designed, but contains a certain gender ideology which i regret i could not support. the area covered by the report is important but requires careful consideration and appropriate complementarity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the situation of women refugees and asylum seekers in the eu. the resolution supports a reform of eu migration and asylum policies and procedures appealing for the inclusion of gender-sensitive measures for the safety of women seeking asylum, given their particularly vulnerable position. it is further stated that all forms of gender-related violence, such as rape, sexual violence, female genital mutilation, forced marriage or domestic violence, as well as violence against lgbti, should be considered as valid reasons for seeking asylum in the eu. the importance of making available safe and legal routes for women refugees is equally stressed in the resolution, with the general aim of improving the security and safety of women refugees.
in writing. ‒ the report on the situation of refugees and asylum seekers in the eu highlights the problem of the situation of refugee women in the european union. these are often victims of sexual violence, trafficking or other violent crimes because of their vulnerable position. i agree that asylum policies and procedures, including the assessment of asylum applications, should take account of the above circumstances. however, as the report is too ideological in some places and generally interferes with the area of asylum policy, which is primarily the responsibility of the libe committee and violates the principle of subsidiarity, i abstained from voting.
after many years, we have come to the point where we are resolving a humanitarian catastrophe, or at least trying to resolve it, in parallel with the political process that is supposed to lead to peace in syria. the humanitarian catastrophe is the result of the wrong policies, including ours, in relation to the complexity of syria. we didn't understand where the escalation in syria was going. we certainly have, as you said, three positive things at this point. one is a ceasefire, the other is coordination between the united states and russia, and the third is inclusiveness in the negotiations, which include both the russians and assad. you said we weren't in the cold war. i'm afraid that, according to the rhetoric of some colleagues who can't focus on syria, but are arguing with putin, it's completely unnecessary in this situation that we are actually in this cold war. i think the ultimate goal that we have to set for ourselves is a democratic syria. but perhaps it would be right for us in europe to start thinking about what will happen after the war in syria, namely the reconciliation process.
(the microphone did not work properly during the first part of the speech. ...you could say she bought what she needed. firstly, to ensure that the wave of migration that has flooded the so-called balkan route is finally stopped and, secondly, that the full schengen regime is soon re-established. the price of this deal is high, especially if turkey is not a credible partner. if the next regular summit also brings agreement on concrete commitments by the member states, things will gradually normalize. until then, some european countries will continue to face the emergency caused by illegal migrants. yesterday we not only provided turkey with a lot of extra money and other aid, but we also helplessly opened the door to its integration into the european union, even though it has nothing to do with the migration crisis. turkish politicians sensed the european union's distress and blackmailed it. he's using the refugee crisis to improve his bargaining position. that's not credible, and that's not how a partner behaves. this undermines the credibility and integrity of this agreement and calls into question our future cooperation between the european union and turkey. when a reporter asked me today, "what about human rights and the freedoms of refugees, are you not interested in this story?" , i replied that i did and that they can only protect themselves in regulated environments that are only being established now, after yesterday's summit.
commissioner, you have listed some of the measures to implement the plan for... in this case and as the last of the relocation measures... the refugee relocation agreement. i think this should be the first agreement between member states as a precondition for all other measures, including closure or restriction of entry at the border. instead of our agreement and therefore solidarity between the member states, we found a subcontractor, namely turkey. which we are, of course, prepared to pay a lot, eventually six billion, and on top of that, of course, a lot of pardons, in terms of human rights violations, freedom of the press and so on. and actually, we know from history that turkey is a merchant with a lot of talents in trade. so, of course, this cannot be a long-term solution. and the answer to how to solve these issues must be found amongst ourselves and within the member states.
in writing. first of all, i would like to thank the commissioner for her courage in reopening this directive, which is not perfect. you've worked very hard to craft a proposal that could be acceptable to everyone in the end. it is now two decades since the adoption of this directive and the labour market has changed considerably in that time. that's reason enough to change. we have to ask ourselves whether the rule of equal pay for equal work in the same place is really the right formula for both sides, for workers and employers. whether that rule will support the core values or jeopardize them. there are still a lot of unanswered questions. i'd like to make one more point. an employment relationship is a relationship between two parties. it is true that we pay great attention to protecting the rights of employees, but on the other hand we must not forget employers. in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises, which are also part of the story and may become uncompetitive as a result of the measures.
it is good that employment and social affairs remain high on our agenda. i therefore welcome the idea of the social triple a, because it brings together all the things we are trying to achieve in this area: promoting employment, improving the education sector, reducing longterm unemployment and better coordinating social systems. i think it is very important that we also support the initiative to establish a european pillar of social rights. europe has always been and is a model in terms of ensuring social rights and it is right that we should be... and that we should maintain this primacy. but to do that, we have to make sure that we are constantly improving this system, that we are working on a better and more efficient system. and i believe that the european pillar of social rights will also be the one to help achieve this. of course, there are still many questions about how this triple axis system will work, and i welcome the fact that we have put this question to the commission together and, commissioner, we hope to receive appropriate answers from you.
vice-president of the commission.– madam president, i am very grateful for the debate this evening. it demonstrates how serious the task ahead of us is. we have many pressing needs in europe and we will have to prioritise our resources and use the resources better. in that sense, i agree with those who have spoken about the necessity to prioritise competitiveness, growth and jobs, firstly, and then, secondly, to make sure that we are able to deal with what has been the biggest challenge for europe in our lifetime. we are extremely focused on anticipating where problems may arise and this is why we have changed the instruments in our hands, including the capacity to provide humanitarian assistance inside europe, and i can tell you that in the commission we started thinking about this long before it became a pressing need in greece. we do not know what else may come our way but we know that in a world that is more fragile, where shocks are more frequent, we have to be prepared to respond quickly and in a more agile way to protect the security of our citizens, to provide new opportunities where they are wiped out by crises, and for this i would conclude by saying that first i agree that never mind how stretched our budget is we have to have space for some flexibility for a quick response when needs arise. secondly, we do have to think in a more creative way about how we use money – can we achieve more than one objective with the same euro? i will give you a small example here. we took eur 30 million from the eur 500 million to deal with the milk crisis last year, to give it to the world food programme to buy milk from our farmers and feed children in refugee camps. we have to think in a much more creative way about the 2017 budget and those that are to follow. my last point is yes, we need money, but in this very tough time for us we need our unity even more. therefore, as we work on the budget we should be very careful not to create unnecessary clashes and battles that only undermine the unity of the european union and which do not strengthen it.
in writing. we have a tough task ahead of us this year too. taxpayers rightly expect us to allocate european funds with utmost prudence. the budget for the coming year must be even more proactive in promoting growth and job creation, while successfully addressing the challenges associated with the growing migration and refugee crisis. at this stage of preparing the budget for next year, i would like to stress above all that we must continue to work to reduce youth unemployment. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on youth, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on youth. i certainly welcome this commitment statement, but i wonder why no new commitments have been made for 2016 to provide additional funding for the youth employment initiative. according to a recent eurostat survey, youth unemployment in many member states - particularly those with the highest rates - is expected to decline. at eu level, it was as much as 1.5% lower at the end of last year. it's a sign that our past efforts have been successful. i believe that the youth employment initiative is one of the main factors for this success, and i therefore agree with the rapporteur and call on the commission to present its assessment of this initiative as soon as possible and to take it into account when preparing the draft budget for the coming year.
last month i was in southeastern turkey. one thing is crystal clear. neither the european union nor turkey can solve the refugee crisis on their own. and they both have a problem, which is that they can't control their situation. this is no time for blackmail, for taking advantage of one side or the other. the key now is to be sincere. financial aid to turkey must go where it is needed most - for food, for education, for work. turkey must step up its fight against trafficking in human beings. the exchange of refugees must be conducted in accordance with international human rights principles and not a la carte. what is happening in greece is a tragedy. it is the result of the union's inability to respond collectively and a disgrace to europe. you said the flows on the balkan route stopped, i wish that were true. slovenia is re-implementing schengen on its border with croatia as of today. but we need to help greece, otherwise the people smugglers will continue to expand their business. it is high time that all countries, including the high level quartet, took responsibility for the existence of the schengen area. turkey is a strategic partner of the union, but its future in the association will depend on its progress. what is happening to the media is unacceptable, as is the violence against the kurds. otherwise, the only guarantee for the settlement of the refugee situation will be a lasting ceasefire in syria, which is something that not only the union and turkey but the entire international community must strive for.
we are in a position where the issue of refugees, asylum seekers or migrants and their pain and suffering is no longer just a question of our moral commitment to the values of compassion or compassion - i believe we all feel this here - but a test of our capacity and political responsibility as a united europe to be fully solidarity-based and effective in governance. if we ignore our own responsibility for the tragedy of the middle east at this point, we must recognize that turkey holds the key to solving this acute crisis. we cannot, of course, accept the increasing authoritarianism of the erdogan regime, the imprisonment of journalists and media, the curtailment of human rights. nevertheless, we must - perhaps with gritted teeth - acknowledge that we need turkey as a partner today and in the future. it is not a cow deal, as some colleagues have said, but a matter of the real interests of europe and of a major country which is at the moment pursuing its own interests above all. it might have been easier if the european union had made its attitude towards turkey and its european future fairly clear earlier. the refugee crisis is not the best reason for this.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the proposal for a directive on the reduction of the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels, as the case in question is merely a codification of existing texts, which do not involve any substantive changes.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a directive on the reduction of sulphur in certain liquid fuels, as it is necessary to limit environmental pollution. by strengthening environmental commitments and related standards, the report represents an important step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ the proposed directive aims to reduce sulphur dioxide emissions from the combustion of certain liquid fuels and thus reduce the harmful effects of these emissions on man and the environment. this directive lays down maximum permitted sulphur content in heavy fuel oil, gas oil, marine gas oil and marine diesel oil used in the european union. it is important to reduce the sulphur content at eu level collectively, as environmental acidification is a transboundary phenomenon. the aim of the codification is to simplify and clarify eu law. in this case, the codification of council directive 1999/32/ec of 26 april 1999 relating to a reduction in the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels and amending directive 93/12/eec is appropriate. the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission considers that the proposal constitutes a codification of existing texts without any substantial change in their content. i therefore voted in favour of the report in the plenary, thereby supporting the proposal for a directive.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the reduction of sulphur in certain liquid fuels, as it is an important directive that addresses the issue of air pollution, which is one of the main environmental concerns facing european citizens. unfortunately, a large proportion of europe's population lives in areas where the eu's air quality objectives are still not fully met. i believe that the proposed directive represents an even greater effort to ensure better air quality and natural living conditions at union level. the latter directive will also bring us one step closer to innovative and efficient use of resources.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive concerning the reduction in the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels. the report demands for the reduction of emissions of sulphur dioxide resulting from the use of certain types of liquid fuels. the final aim is to reduce the harmful effects of these emissions on the population and the environment. the suggested method to achieve such a goal is to impose limits on the sulphur content of such fuels as a condition for their use within member states’ land and sea territory. the report strives towards a healthier and more ecological environment.
in writing. ‒ emissions from the combustion of fuels for high-sulphur vessels pollute the air with sulphur dioxide and particulate matter, which are harmful to human health and the environment and contribute to the formation of acidic deposits. the existing council directive 1999/32/ec, which sets maximum sulphur levels for marine fuels, has been substantially amended several times and is therefore not transposable. since i believe that air quality must be maintained in a way that does not have major negative effects on human health and the environment and does not endanger them, i supported the proposal for a new directive, which provides a transparent and clear regulatory framework.
in writing. ‒ as with the previous item on the agenda, i have no comment on this one. i supported the motion for a resolution on the proposal for a regulation to prevent the diversion of trade in certain key medicines to the european union. it is simply a codification of existing texts, which do not involve any substantive changes.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report because it is important that the world's poorest countries, which are plagued by some of the worst diseases, have the opportunity to get the medicines they need at the lowest possible price. it is necessary to prevent unfair commercial practices in the procurement and distribution of medicines, while ensuring that there is a sufficient supply of medicines for poorer countries.
in writing. ‒ for the treatment of infectious diseases, poor developing countries have a high need for affordable basic medicines. these countries are often almost entirely dependent on imported medicines because their local production is insufficient. a distinction should be made between the prices of developed countries and those of the poorest developing countries. the latter must be provided with basic pharmaceutical products at very low prices. however, these prices must not become a benchmark for the price paid for the same products in the markets of developed countries. the proposed codified regulation aims to prevent parallel pricing products from being imported into the european union, but provides for exceptions in certain circumstances. the aim of the codification is to simplify and clarify eu law. in this case, the codification of council regulation (ec) no 953/2003 of 26 may 2003 to prevent trade diversion of certain key medicinal products to the european union is appropriate. the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission considers that the proposal constitutes a codification of existing texts without any substantial change in their content. i therefore voted in favour of the report in the plenary, thereby supporting the proposal for a regulation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council to prevent the diversion of trade in certain essential medicines to the european union, as the proposal is a meaningful codification of the texts existing so far, without any substantive changes, namely the codification of council regulation (ec) no 953/2003 of 26 may 2003 to prevent the diversion of trade in certain essential medicines to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation concerning the diversion into the european union of certain key medicines. many of the poorest developing countries are dependent on imports of affordable essential medicines for the treatment of transmissible diseases. price segmentation between developed country markets and these country markets is necessary to ensure that the poorest countries are supplied with essential pharmaceutical products at significantly reduced prices. the report underlines the need to encourage pharmaceutical companies to make medicines directed to the poorest countries available at greatly reduced prices in significantly increased volumes, in line with the regulation. it equally states the need for a procedure which identifies the products, countries and diseases covered by this regulation, as well as the need to differentiate the appearance of reduced-priced medicines in order to prevent their import into the eu. the overall aim of this report is to call for greater help to be provided to those in need of essential medication as well as for preventing the abuse of such help.
in writing. ‒ i supported the legislative proposal to prevent parallel pricing of pharmaceutical products from being imported into the european union. it is necessary to ensure that these products remain on the market of the poorest developing countries and to prevent the increase of economic interest in diverting trade to high-price markets. many of the poorest developing countries urgently need access to affordable basic medicines to treat infectious diseases.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed decision to conclude an agreement between the eu and andorra on the exchange of financial account information as an important step in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. the agreement builds on the 2004 agreement, which resulted in andorra implementing measures equivalent to those of the eu savings tax directive. by some estimates, the grey economy in the eu member states represents a staggering €1 trillion a year in uncollected taxes and contributions. there is therefore no doubt that this is a major anomaly, which is detrimental both in terms of free competition and in terms of providing access to public services financed by taxation. the fight against tax fraud is one of the eu's priorities and is already showing results. the examples of corporate tax evasion exposures we've seen since the lux leaks are steps in the right direction. to achieve the objectives of reducing tax irregularities, we need to strengthen the exchange of financial account data and all other relevant information concerning cross-border business operations. that agreement will allow for just that.
in writing. ‒ on 27 february 2016, the european union and andorra signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information with the aim of improving international tax cooperation and compliance. i support the proposal as the agreement is an important step in the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion and builds on the 2004 agreement that achieved that andorra implement measures equivalent to those in the eu savings tax directive. in particular, i support the provision under the new agreement that eu member states and andorra will automatically exchange data on financial accounts held by residents of one or the other opened in the territory of the other. the aim is to address cases where a taxpayer attempts to conceal capital in the form of income or assets for which he has not paid tax. the agreement thus aims to ensure that andorra implements enhanced measures equivalent to those in the eu legal framework and complies with the procedures for the automatic exchange of financial account information, which are also encouraged by the oecd global standards. this will also benefit andorra, which has recently reformed its internal tax system and introduced personal income taxation for its residents.
in writing. ‒ the european union and andorra signed an agreement on 27 february 2016 on the automatic exchange of financial account information to improve international tax cooperation and compliance. the recent agreement builds on the previous one from 2004, which provided that andorra implement measures equivalent to those in the eu savings tax directive. the new agreement will provide for the automatic exchange of financial account data between the eu member states and andorra from 2018 for data collected from 1 january 2017. the purpose is to resolve situations where a taxpayer attempts to conceal capital in the form of income or assets for which he has not paid tax. the tax administrations in the member states and andorra will be able to administer and enforce national tax legislation in cross-border situations, to identify correctly and unambiguously the relevant taxpayers and to assess the likelihood of tax evasion. they will also ensure that no unnecessary further investigation is undertaken. the agreement represents an important step in the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion and enhances cooperation in the exchange of information on financial accounts. i supported the report in plenary on the basis of what you have described.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the principality of andorra providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments, as an encouraging step in the current efforts to prevent tax fraud and tax evasion. the present decision is a meaningful upgrade of the 2004 agreement and introduces new elements aimed at ensuring that andorra implements enhanced measures equivalent to those in the eu legal framework, while respecting the procedures for the automatic exchange of financial account information. the 2014 oecd global standards are also a driving force behind this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report concerning the eu-andorra agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information. the report entails the automatic interchange of information on the bank accounts of each other’s residents, with the aim of reducing tax fraud and tax evasion. the information to be exchanged includes income, such as interest and dividends, but also account balances and earnings from the sale of financial assets. this agreement will make it more difficult for eu citizens to hide cash from the tax authorities in bank accounts in andorra, allowing for better financial transparency in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the report on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the principality of andorra providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments and establishing unconditional exchange of financial account information. i believe that the agreement will further strengthen the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion and ensure that andorra respects the procedures for the automatic exchange of financial account information.
in writing. ‒ i had no reservations in supporting the decision to appoint mr fausto parente as the new executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa). mr parente has already shown himself to be a person of trust through his past work and i therefore consider it appropriate to give him a five-year mandate as head of eiopa.
in writing. ‒ the term of office of the current executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) expires on 31 march 2016. on 28 january 2016, following an open selection procedure, the board of supervisors of eiopa proposed that fausto parente be appointed as executive director for a term of five years. fausto parente made a presentation to the committee on economic and monetary affairs on 23 february 2016. as the candidate is suitable, i voted in favour of the report in plenary, thereby also supporting the appointment of fausto parente as executive director of eiopa.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the recommendation to appoint a new executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa), as every european authority needs a person to run its day-to-day activities. it is important that each european institution has someone who is responsible for implementing the annual work programme and takes the measures necessary to ensure the smooth functioning of the body.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the appointment of a new executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa), taking into consideration that the term of office of eiopa’s current executive director ends on 31 march 2016 and that the newly proposed executive director for a term of office of five years, fausto parente, was chosen following an open selection procedure.
in writing. ‒ i supported the appointment of faust parente as the new executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority, as i believe that he meets all the required criteria and has sufficient experience to take up this function.
in writing. ‒ i also supported the report proposed by my colleague, ms chinnici, on the proposal for a directive on procedural guarantees for children who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings. the main purpose of the proposal is to establish uniform standards across the eu for the exercise of procedural rights in criminal proceedings for persons under the age of 18. in addition, the directive also focuses on promoting the mutual recognition of judgments and judicial decisions in the field of criminal law. over a million children are involved in criminal proceedings in the eu each year, and they are treated very differently across the member states, especially in terms of the provision of rights. therefore, harmonisation of standards at eu level is essential.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal because it is necessary to ensure that all persons under 18 years of age are effectively and more uniformly entitled to a fair trial by means of minimum common rules. this is linked to the objective of promoting the mutual recognition of judgments and judicial decisions in the field of criminal law and ensuring the necessary legal protection for children.
in writing. ‒ the commission estimates that more than one million children are involved in criminal proceedings in the eu every year. that's 12% of all cases. however, the treatment of children in criminal proceedings varies significantly between member states. in some member states, for example, children are not recognised as having a fundamental right to the assistance of a lawyer. in order to ensure that the rights of children are protected in criminal proceedings, the commission proposed in 2013 a directive on the protection of children in criminal proceedings as part of a broader legislative package on procedural rights. it is important that persons under 18 years of age are guaranteed effective and uniform exercise of the right to a fair trial at all stages of the proceedings. the right to legal aid is inalienable and is linked to the right to free legal aid. the directive puts the best interests of the child at the forefront, as it contains important elements such as the right to individual assessment and the way in which the hearing is conducted. judges, lawyers, and others dealing with children need to be specially trained to do so. where other safeguards are not possible, detention of children may only be carried out on condition that children are detained separately from adult children. i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive because it will establish good minimum rights for children who are suspects or accused in criminal proceedings and will generally improve children's rights everywhere in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on procedural safeguards for children who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings, given the very worrying high number of children involved in criminal proceedings across the eu and the wide disparities in the treatment of children involved in criminal proceedings between member states. the small number of specialised child prosecution bodies is also a cause for concern. the latter directive brings many important rights and opportunities for special treatment of children, access to lawyers, free legal aid, specific provisions on deprivation of liberty and ensuring that children are detained separately from adults. the proposal also provides for specific training for judges, law enforcement authorities, lawyers and others dealing with children. i think this proposal is a good one, as it concerns one of the most vulnerable groups for which, despite numerous international instruments, there is no legal definition of the essential elements for a fair trial. it is also part of a plan to strengthen the procedural rights of suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on procedural safeguards for children suspected or accused in criminal proceedings. the report seeks to formulate a properly structured catalogue of rights for children suspected or accused in criminal proceedings with the aim of uniform protection of children’s rights across the eu. the main aim of the report is to promote children’s rights, as the legal mechanisms for children protection are not fully and uniformly applied in the member states. according to eu researchers there are major discrepancies in the way in which children involved in criminal proceedings are treated in the various member states, leading to insufficient children’s rights protection at the various stages in criminal proceedings in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i supported a legislative proposal that provides procedural guarantees for children who are suspects or accused in criminal proceedings. i consider that these specific safeguard measures are necessary to establish a uniform regime in the union, as it has been found that procedural guarantees for children are poorly regulated in some member states. children in criminal proceedings will be guaranteed, inter alia, the right to a lawyer, the right to a medical examination, the right to audio-visual recording during interrogation and special guarantees during deprivation of liberty.
in writing. ‒ with the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2017 budget and their support, meps, including myself, have expressed our expectations for the preparation of the budget by the european commission for the following year. we have thus stressed the need to take account of economic forecasts in planning itself and to maintain appropriate flexibility in financial planning in the face of crises. this is particularly the case for disbursements which must be regular and foreseeable in advance, in particular for the purpose of drawing on the european structural and investment funds. we also expressed the expectation that all member states would also fulfil their commitments in the area of budgetary contributions, as this is the only way to maintain the equality and unity of the eu at a satisfactory level and to respond appropriately to internal and external crises.
in writing. ‒ the budget for next year must be even more proactive in promoting growth and job creation, while successfully addressing the challenges associated with the growing migration and refugee crisis. at this stage of the (pre-) preparation of next year's budget, i would like to stress above all that we must continue to work to reduce youth unemployment. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on youth, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on youth. i certainly welcome this commitment statement, but i wonder why no new commitments have been made for 2016 to provide additional funding for the youth employment initiative. according to a recent eurostat survey, youth unemployment is expected to decline in many member states, especially those with the highest rates. at eu level, it was as much as 1.5% lower at the end of last year. it's a sign that our past efforts have been successful. i believe that the youth employment initiative is one of the main factors for this success. however, i find that the mff is too rigid and insufficient to address europe's challenges. in addition, it is planned to continue supporting the very expensive iter project on the exploitation of nuclear fusion. i did not support the report in plenary but abstained on it.
in writing. ‒ report on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2017 budget, section iii i supported the commission, as i believe that the union budget, in addition to the budgetary resources we have spent to respond to the forecast needs for the financial period 2014-2020, has proved to be a key resource for dealing with the recent crisis situations that have hit us and have given rise to a number of serious challenges and emergencies. i also think that the budget has been prepared in line with the european semester and in the light of economic forecasts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on guidelines for the 2017 budget – section iii. the report objectively states future priorities and concerns related to the eu budget. it states that the eu budget priorities for 2017 will be related to the migration and refugee crisis, but also related to greater investing and the acceleration of the slow post-crisis recovery. concerns are expressed regarding problems of long-term and youth unemployment and disparities in economic development across the eu. in addition, the refugee crisis is a long-term challenge and additional financial resources will be needed to deal with it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the 2017 budgetary guidelines, which emphasises the need to increase investment for growth, competitiveness and job creation, while also addressing the current challenges posed by the refugee crisis. i am pleased that the funding of the youth employment programme also remains a priority objective of the union in the area of jobs and growth. this will enable more young people to enter the labour market effectively through quality employment, further education or traineeships.
in writing. ‒ by supporting the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, the european parliament continues its fight for more effective law-making and adoption in the relationship between parliament, the european commission and the european council. it is particularly important to involve smes in impact measurement as transparently and actively as possible. it is also necessary to accelerate the exchange of best practices and methodologies and to take into account any additional burden imposed on businesses under the new rules. the regulatory oversight committee will play a key role in this, monitoring the effects of better law-making measures and maintaining as much independence as possible from political decision-making.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal as this agreement will replace the agreements already in force from 2003 and 2005. the agreement will increase cooperation between the council, parliament and the commission, leading to better legislative initiative and thus to an improvement in the quality of legislation to be adopted in the future. the negotiations between the three institutions have led to an agreement which, in my view, covers the three most important areas: better regulation, interinstitutional relations and the implementation of legislation. in each of these areas, progress is needed to improve the way the european union works. the report also covers some new procedural rules between these institutions which will facilitate cooperation, which i particularly welcome. in our group we are particularly committed to the sme test and to transparency at national level, which goes beyond the requirements of european legislation. after compromises with the other political groups and a satisfactory outcome, i accepted the proposal.
in writing. ‒ in 2003, the european parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission concluded an interinstitutional agreement on better lawmaking. the legislative environment has changed over the years, in particular with the treaty of lisbon, and new negotiations were launched in 2015 to update the agreement and to incorporate existing best practices. in december 2015, the conference of presidents endorsed the provisional agreement reached by the negotiators of the three institutions on the text of the new interinstitutional agreement. they jointly committed themselves to promoting simplicity, clarity and consistency in the drafting of legislation, while advocating full transparency of the legislative process. the agreement also addresses the tools for better law-making and, in particular, impact assessments. in february 2016, the constitutional affairs committee adopted a report on the conclusion of this agreement. the report provides a balanced assessment of the agreement, which provides a good basis for further cooperation between the institutions to ensure better lawmaking in the interests of eu citizens. in any case, this new interinstitutional agreement is based on the assumption that legislation is essentially a source of burden and difficulty, and on the assumption that the main problem of the eu is over-regulation. but we should focus on the real problem: bad policy choices. i did not support the report in plenary, but i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the conclusion of the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission on better law-making, as i believe that the agreement is a good basis for establishing and developing a new, more open and transparent relationship between the institutions. i am confident that this cooperation will ensure better lawmaking in the interests of the citizens of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the conclusion of the inter-institutional agreement on better law-making representing an agreement among parliament, the council and the commission to improve the planning, quality and transparency of their law-making. the agreement aims to strengthen co-operation between the european institutions, in order to deliver more transparent and workable legislation, particularly by better taking into account the results of impact assessments in the legislative process. it targets both enhancing public understanding of how the eu makes its laws and improving the quality of new and updated eu legislation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the conclusion of the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission on better law-making. the agreement reached between the institutions is a good basis for establishing and developing a more open and transparent relationship between the institutions with a view to ensuring better preparation of legislation in the interest of the citizens of the union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution which unequivocally opposed the renewal of the tobacco agreement with philip morris international (pmi) and in that spirit also appealed to the commission not to negotiate on this issue. the 2014 tobacco directive provides effective tools to combat smuggling of tobacco products and, in addition, it is the task of member states to ratify the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products to the world health organisation (who) framework convention on tobacco control, which is a similar international tool and is due to enter into force in 2022, as soon as possible in order to combat illicit trade. the extension of the agreement, which would not be an extension but the opening of new negotiations on the agreement, would be contrary to both the efforts of the tobacco directive and the who guidelines. the agreement currently in force is the result of a settlement between pmi and the eu concluded in 2004 following the legal proceedings initiated by the eu against pmi in 2001. the opening of renegotiation of the agreement would therefore be the wrong signal, since the circumstances have changed completely from the previous weeks.
in writing. ‒ i supported the joint resolution calling on the commission not to renew or extend the agreement or negotiate with philip morris international (pmi), one of the world's largest producers of tobacco products. tobacco diversion needs to be addressed in a different and effective way and in the spirit of the tobacco directive. now that the circumstances have changed significantly, there is no longer any need for such an agreement, and we have adopted a new european tobacco directive that will oblige the tobacco industry to higher standards of traceability of tobacco products. the renewal of the agreement with the tobacco company would also send a bad message to third countries that the european union has inappropriate contacts with the tobacco industry, even though the protocol to the who tobacco control convention clearly prohibits them.
in writing. ‒ illicit tobacco trade is a global problem, costing member states up to eur 10 billion a year. over the past 12 years, the eu has signed tobacco agreements with four of the world's leading tobacco producers to help member states recover the revenue from duties lost to smuggling of tobacco products. the agreement with philip morris international (pmi) in 2004, when it was first concluded, was an appropriate instrument in the fight against illicit trade in tobacco products, but the market and the regulatory environment have changed a lot since then and the agreement does not address the important features of today's illicit tobacco trade, in particular the large share of illicit whites in it today. the agreement has also been replaced by the provisions of the tobacco products directive and the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control. the said convention also emphasises that such agreements with the tobacco industry are in conflict with the objectives of the convention and jeopardise progress in tobacco control. renewing tobacco agreements would send the wrong signal to non-eu countries. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution calling on the commission not to renew the agreement on the prevention of cigarette smuggling.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a joint resolution on the tobacco agreement, as the expiring agreement with pmi represents a counterproductive and controversial message to both eu citizens and third countries. renewal and extension of such an agreement would represent a step backwards in the area of tobacco industry control. i believe that the burning problem of illicit tobacco trade needs to be tackled more effectively and with transparent tools. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the union's financial interests, in particular on the union's financial interests, in the light of the experience gained in the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on tobacco agreement (pmi agreement), which appeals to the commission not to renew an eu anti-smuggling and anti-counterfeiting deal with philip morris international (pmi), as it proved ineffective. the agreement required the four largest tobacco firms to pay the eu and its member states a total of usd 2.15 billion to drop legal proceedings against them to recover duties lost to illegal trade in cigarettes, where the companies also agreed to devotedly fight tobacco smuggling and counterfeiting. however, despite reducing tobacco smuggling, the agreement´s side-effect was a rise in illegal trafficking of low-quality white cigarettes. the resolution suggests using eu and international legislative tools to combat smuggling. it equally expresses concern that annual payments from the tobacco industry could lead to a conflict of interest. overall, the resolution aims at preventing illegal trafficking of tobacco and increasing the transparency of the tobacco industry in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the legislative resolution calling on the european commission not to renew or extend the agreement or negotiate with philip morris international (pmi) because i believe that this would create a legislative gap and would not require the careful monitoring and tracking of pmi's smuggling and counterfeiting of tobacco products.
on behalf of the alde group. the honourable member, the minister, my dear jeanine, commissioner hahn. let me start by saying that on behalf of all three colleagues, i would like to thank you very much for the kind words you have spoken to us about our cooperation. it's been a great pleasure for all of us to work with you, commissioner. the resolution on macedonia, drawn up with the help of excellent shadow rapporteurs, the secretariat and colleagues who tabled some 300 amendments, will be adopted at a critical time for this country. not only has it waited too long at the door of the european union as a candidate, but it is facing the challenge these very days of thousands of refugees at the borders who want to enter the union via the balkan route, and we are looking for the means to cross that route. on 5 june, macedonia will hold early parliamentary elections to end the political crisis. if the elections are held in accordance with democratic standards, then it will be time for the commission to present and the council to finally approve the opening of negotiations for macedonia's accession to the union under the same conditions as those which have been in force in the enlargement process. the acquis is broadly compliant, demonstrates satisfactory economic stability and growth, is active in developing good neighbourly relations and is proactive in building trust with the countries with which it has open problems - greece and bulgaria. in the resolution, as in the commission report to which we are responding, we have drawn attention to the problems revealed by the wiretapping affair. the systematic clearing up of these anomalies is entrusted to the special prosecutor's office in accordance with the so-called pridnestrovian agreement and is a condition for the establishment of trust and the functioning of the democratic system in the country. the same applies to the urgent reforms envisaged by the political parties' agreement, which was reached through the mediation of the european union, the commission, in particular commissioner hahn, and with the participation of the us diplomatic representatives and the three mediators, members of the european parliament. i would also particularly stress the need to open up the media space in accordance with the principles of democratic and creative confrontation of opinions. ladies and gentlemen, it is time for macedonia to take a new step towards euro-atlantic integration, and my alde group supports this. mr president, i am sorry that you only had to give the rapporteur two minutes. i don't think that's very fair. (the speaker agreed to accept the question raised by the blue card (rule 162 (8)).
blue-card answer.– i must confess that the interpretation technics were quite bad, so i did not catch the meaning of the question, but let me guess what you said. of course it is huge problem for a small country if you have to deal with such a big problem on your borders. i think that the european commission, the european union, has to stand by macedonia in handling the problem at the border. was this your question?
i congratulate my colleague, ivo vajgl, on his responsible work and his sense of the essential issues. political developments over the past year have further demonstrated that the european perspective of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia does not depend solely on its willingness to reform and its european partners, but on its internal stability and the quality of its democracy. i regret that domestic political developments have for the first time made this recommendation conditional. this is a further call to the main political forces to fulfil their commitments under the pring agreement. only consistent implementation can strengthen the credibility of the accession process and stabilise the political image of the candidate country. i would like to reiterate that the refugee and other challenges reinforce the need for a more symmetrical progress of the whole region towards a european perspective.
i must congratulate mr. weigl on a quality report. in these difficult circumstances, when the european union and europe more broadly are facing the refugee crisis, macedonia has proved to be an active, responsible and reliable actor in its management. despite the difficult internal political situation, despite the upcoming elections, this non-member of the european union is better able to protect european interests and schengen than some schengen members. we have a new report on the progress of macedonia. the commission's report is similar from year to year: macedonia is ready to start negotiations. it is high time that the european union and the council also started negotiations on macedonia's accession to the european union as soon as possible.
mr. weigl, thank you for all the energy and time you put into this excellent report. the former ... that is macedonia has been in the waiting room for more than ten years and is identified as one of the most advanced countries in the western balkans, especially in terms of the conditions for membership. i think, of course, we can say that there is a certain internal political conflict, that there are of course many challenges, but today the refugee crisis is a much bigger challenge. macedonia has borne and is carrying a much, much greater burden of this refugee crisis than any other member state and i also think that the european union must move from words to action and really help macedonia financially. as regards the conditions, i must say that sometimes the commission has a different dioptre, because if we look at the agreement with turkey, we are actually prepared to make big concessions, which we have not done in macedonia for ten years.
in writing. i cannot remain indifferent to the current events in macedonia. at the moment, it seems that macedonia has not only found itself in a strategically vulnerable position as the eu's first neighbour, but also in a vicious circle. the reform agreement was approved, the date of the elections, which could mean a democratic awakening of the country, was set. but will things really change radically this time? i welcome the appointment of a special prosecutor to lead the investigation into the wiretapping affair that further deepened the political crisis last year, but i am not sure about its independence from the rest of the country's judicial system, whose impartiality is not taken for granted. the june elections must be conducted in accordance with the highest democratic standards. these could be threatened by the state of media freedom, and political parties do not look at the appropriateness of the means to win the favor of the electorate. in the turbulent social and political reality of macedonia, i would like to highlight the situation of young people in particular. the lack of a true perspective and the high unemployment rate lead to the emergence of a generation of desperate young people who lack a clear vision and consequently are also more inclined to identify with extreme ideologies or religious radicalization. and that will be the highest price macedonia will pay for its future. this should sober up the macedonian political leaders and force them to pursue a less selfish and more constructive policy.
i congratulate my colleague charles tannock on his excellent new report and on the important progress made by montenegro in opening and closing negotiating chapters over the past year. at the same time, i hope that the candidate country's stage win in opening negotiations will not diminish its dynamism and ambition to make progress on the broad front of the known issues where reform is urgent. with the urgent need to focus on building a functioning rule of law, it seems to me crucial that montenegro does not join the ranks of countries whose internal development and european perspective are being crippled by... internal political polarization. the political forces of montenegro have the responsibility to find the common denominators necessary to strengthen political stability and the credibility and dynamism of the european perspective.
i would like to stress that montenegro is the country in the western balkans which has made the most progress in accession negotiations of all the countries. she's opened 22 chapters and i think, of course, we all want her to continue with the same enthusiasm and commitment. there are, of course, a number of issues that need to be addressed more specifically, including corruption in certain areas. in the area of justice, we want the elections this year to be as free and democratic as possible. but, of course, as a representative of the greens, i would like to mention one more thing. montenegro has a wonderful nature and also as a green mp i would like to highlight and of course call on the representatives of the authorities not to build the whole of montenegro and to protect important landscape areas, especially the salt flats in ulcinj and buljarica, because in this way they can preserve the habitat for future generations.
in writing. i would like to thank my colleague mr tannock for the good resolution on the progress of montenegro in 2015. i am pleased that montenegro has made good progress in its accession negotiations with the eu on the 10th anniversary of its independence, opening 22 chapters (including 23 and 24 on the functioning of the rule of law). however, much work still lies ahead, including the eradication of corruption, the improvement of the electoral system, the guarantee of freedom of the media, and the fight against organised crime. i congratulate montenegro on the opening of negotiations for nato membership and wish it to become its 29th member as soon as possible. approaching nato is not the same as approaching the european union, but the conditions for joining are similar. in the process of joining nato, montenegro will have to implement reforms to ensure that it respects certain democratic and civil society norms. i believe that joining nato will also bring greater readiness for eu membership and stability to the wider region. montenegro has proved to be a good partner for the eu in the field of foreign policy, both in the area of sanctions against russia over crimea and in the fight against islamic extremism. i regret that some currents in the country are proposing to lift sanctions against russia and that external pressures are emerging to stop montenegro's rapprochement with euro-atlantic organisations.
first there was tragedy, then there was injustice. and from that comes moral responsibility. the dignity of the affected requires that a breakthrough be achieved, which must lead to compensation for the affected persons, who will be able to enjoy an adequate quality of life, regardless of their country of origin. anyone who was harmed by thalidomide should receive similar compensation. i therefore expect the commission, which is sensitive to this problem, to present measures at the appropriate level to provide effective support and assistance to thalidomide victims and their families, regardless of the member state in which they live. we have learned a great deal from this tragedy, but i regret that the people affected have not yet been fully compensated. i would like to stress the need for careful and sensitive consideration, because i remember what was said in those matters. the issue came up in the name of health, science, humanity, and then we saw it in a different light. it may happen that any other remedy that is scientifically sound, medicinal, and modern today will be called into question.
in writing. ‒ by voting in favour, i support the amendments tabled by the negotiating colleagues in the european parliament to the regulation of the european parliament and of the european council introducing emergency autonomous trade measures for the republic of tunisia. we have thus pointed out that the emergency measures to help the tunisian economy following the two terrorist attacks last year are temporary in nature. the main export industry, olive oil production, has been in difficulty and will therefore also benefit to the greatest extent from the measures. in order to avoid fraud and to ensure that the envisaged autonomous trade measures actually benefit the tunisian economy, they should be conditional on compliance by tunisia with the relevant union rules on the origin of products and related procedures, as well as on effective administrative cooperation between tunisia and the union.
in writing. ‒ the terrorist attacks in tunisia and sousse last year had a very negative impact on the tunisian economy, which was already in serious trouble. the european union wishes to assist tunisia in its political and economic transition. the european commission has therefore proposed to introduce a temporary unilateral duty-free tariff quota of 35000 tonnes per year for a period of two years i.e. a total of 70.000 tonnes for the export of olive oil from tunisia to the union, in the form of autonomous trade measures and without increasing the total volume of imports. in these difficult circumstances, the european union supports tunisia's economic development and thereby contributes to tunisia's democratic process. the measure will support a large part of the tunisian economy, as the tunisian oil sector in total provides jobs for more than one million people, representing one fifth of all jobs in tunisian agriculture. olive oil is also the main agricultural product exported by tunisia. i believe that swift and concrete eu action is a strong political signal of support for tunisia, and thus a boost to the path to democracy. i supported the report in plenary on the basis of what you have described.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the introduction of emergency autonomous trade measures for the republic of tunisia. free trade creates economic growth, and economic growth creates jobs. i support the european commission's proposal to introduce a temporary unilateral tariff-free tariff quota of 35 000 tonnes per year, i.e. a total of 70 000 tonnes, for the export of olive oil from tunisia to the union in the form of autonomous trade measures and without increasing the total volume of imports. this will benefit a large part of the tunisian economy, as olive oil is the main agricultural product exported by tunisia and provides direct and indirect employment for more than one million people.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council introducing emergency autonomous trade measures for the republic of tunisia, as the latter regulation provides the eu with concrete and short-term measures to help tunisia strengthen its economy at a time when it is facing a difficult and volatile economic situation, also due to the terrorist attacks last year. i believe that precisely because of the targeted measures, the regulation can have a direct, relatively rapid and positive impact on tunisia's economic development, as the tunisian olive sector represents one fifth of all jobs in agriculture and is, among other things, the main agricultural export product of this country. otherwise, it is a temporary provision which i believe will not have a negative impact on the eu's agriculture, but will be a step forward in solidarity towards tunisia's political and economic transition and an even greater boost to the democratic process in the country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on emergency autonomous trade measures for tunisia, which involve importing 70 000 tonnes of its virgin olive oil duty free during 2016 and 2017 without increasing total export volumes. the resolution entails a mid-term evaluation of the effects of the measures, changing them if they turn out to be harmful, and ensuring that the imports are traced through their entire route. these measures will help the tunisian economy, hit strongly by the terrorist attacks, and are not likely to destabilize in any way the european market, in particular european olive oil producers.
in writing. ‒ i supported the introduction of the urgent autonomous trade measures for the republic of tunisia, as i believe they will contribute to tunisia's economic development and maintain stability and peace in the region.
in writing. ‒ i supported the rapporteur's proposal as it represents an important step towards greater control in the field of veterinary medicinal products. this will help us to control the approval, manufacture, marketing and life-cycle of medicines. we are working to create conditions for better access to medicines, to increase the number of innovations, especially in the field of tackling antibiotic resistance, and to protect the environment. at the same time, i support this proposal because of the need to define the circumstances under which a veterinarian can prescribe and sell antibiotics, in order to reduce the excessive use of antibiotics in livestock farming, which is causing bacteria to become increasingly resistant to medicines.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on veterinary medicinal products. i support the approach that the veterinary medicines market should be separated from the human medicines market, which operates very differently. i also welcome the fact that the commission is seeking to increase the availability of medicines and simplify administrative procedures without sacrificing the principles of public health and environmental protection. i support the amendment to establish strict control mechanisms, in particular for the control of cross-border veterinary prescriptions, which may provide for dissuasive penalties or judicial prosecution in the event of illegal activity or non-compliance with the code of professional conduct. this requires better cooperation from all 28 member states.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on veterinary medicinal products, as i believe that new legislation is urgently needed to increase the scope of research, development and monitoring in the field of medicinal products. due to the increasing resistance of bacteria to antibiotics, the use of existing antimicrobials should be restricted. negotiations on this legislation must therefore begin as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the vote on the report on the proposal for a regulation on veterinary medicinal products was actually a vote on the request that this report be referred back to its competent committee. i voted in favour of the referral back to committee, which would allow some controversial issues to be hopefully clarified.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a legislative proposal which aims, among other things, to improve access to veterinary medicines, to increase incentives for innovation and research, to regulate the problem of growing antibiotic resistance and to take account of environmental protection. i believe that it is good that the procedures for obtaining a veterinary prescription are harmonised in the union and that the recognition of prescriptions between member states is made possible.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the marketing authorisation and control of veterinary medicinal products, i supported the amendments tabled by the european parliament in line with the ppe's position. the harmonisation of the laws of the member states and the facilitation of the placing of new medicinal products on the market are essential objectives of this directive. the authorisation process should be centralised and decisions should be taken on the basis of objective scientific criteria of quality, safety and efficacy.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report, despite some shortcomings, as it contains some good proposals for the marketing and control of veterinary medicinal products. these include alignment with the lisbon treaty and the separation of marketing authorisations for veterinary and human medicinal products, in order to take account of the specific needs of the veterinary sector. i agree with the rapporteur that parliament should be fully involved in setting the agency's fees, and i therefore support the use of the codecision procedure and ensure that the agency will also be entitled to other sources of funding to support its work on public health projects such as the innovative medicines initiative or the 7th framework programme for research and development.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the regulation on community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a european medicines agency. i welcome the proposal from the european commission to combine the rules on veterinary medicinal products into a single regulation on veterinary medicinal products. this would make the provisions on these medicinal products completely separate from those on medicinal products for human use. i support the amendment to allow authorisations to be issued under a centralised procedure based on objective scientific criteria of quality, safety and efficacy.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 726/2004 laying down community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a european medicines agency, as the regulation brings some necessary changes in the area of the production, distribution, marketing and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use in the eu, in particular because of the proposal for repealing directive 2001/82/ec on veterinary medicinal products submitted by the commission in due course. the needs for medicinal products in the human medicine sector are certainly different from those in the veterinary sector, as the latter involves many different animal species. this is why i particularly welcome the separation of marketing authorisations for veterinary medicinal products from those for human use and the alignment of the regulation with the lisbon treaty.
in writing. ‒ the vote on the report on the proposal for a regulation concerning the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use was actually a vote on the request that the vote in plenary itself be postponed to a later part-session. i voted in favour of the postponement of the vote on this particular report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the commission communication 'towards a successful data-driven economy'. i support ensuring that schools and educational establishments bring information and communication technologies closer to pupils and students, especially women and girls. i also support that these efforts include measures to promote a more entrepreneurial spirit and to facilitate entry into big data entrepreneurship by funding new start-ups in this area and consequently creating employment opportunities.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on a successful data-driven economy, as i believe that we need to adapt this area to the modern information society, in which the growth in the amount of data is unprecedented. the development of big data is an integral part of the modern digital market and the data-driven economy is a fundamental step towards growth and employment, based on new business models and services.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which tackles the data-driven economy. the report stresses the importance of the outstanding growth of data volume, which leads towards a data-driven economy embodying an opportunity for growth and employment. such an economy would have an impact on the whole of society and all enterprises and represents the core of the digital single market strategy. while there are significant social and economic benefits associated with the integrated use of data in all sectors of the european economy, the report expresses concern regarding the digital divide, insufficient investments and a lack of technical standardisation and data protection legislation, which could leave europe lagging behind in future technological and economic developments. the report also calls for more investments in data infrastructure in order to be able to benefit fully from a data-driven economy.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on eritrea, as it raises a number of difficult issues relating to the situation in that country which have long been urgently needed to be addressed. in particular, i believe it is critical, as the report states, that the elections scheduled for 1997 were never held, and that the constitution of the same year was not implemented. the regional elections, which were due to take place as early as 2009, have not yet been held. legislation is not passed by parliament at all, but by the government itself. the report thus well describes the lack of democratic processes in the country, which to a large extent hampers its further development. the difficulties mentioned above made it necessary to adopt this resolution, as it will in future represent the official position of the european parliament and thus of the european union towards this country, and at the same time will represent a certain political pressure from the international community on this country to implement the much-needed democratic reforms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european people's party resolution at the end of the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. the situation in eritrea with regard to the protection of human rights, democracy and the rule of law is serious and worrying. a very worrying data was provided in 2015 by reporters without borders, which declared eritrea the worst country in the world for press freedom. as we all know, without freedom of the press, there is no democracy. the un also cites numerous violations in the country in the areas of extrajudicial executions, torture and forced labour. i also express my deep concern about the lack of freedom of expression and the continued presence of political prisoners whose imprisonment is a violation of the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on eritrea because i believe that eritrea is a country that needs our help. we have supported it since independence, even though democracy and the rule of law had not yet been established. eritrea has a high level of repression and violation of fundamental human rights, and their situation is among the worst in the world. a large number of young people have fled the country to escape repressive government and compulsory military service, which can be indefinite, hampering the country's economic growth. there is still much torture, oppression and government interference in citizens who are members of religious denominations. there is a high level of discrimination and violence against women, and such behaviour goes unpunished. the eu is an important partner of eritrea in the field of development aid and support, and we must continue to work to help the citizens, even though the government unilaterally suspended aid in 2011 and does not recognise public cooperation and partnership with the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the situation in eritrea. the report agrees to the allocation of eur 200 million over the next six years to the national indicative program to eritrea for promoting poverty reduction and socio-economic development as a way of tackling the root causes of migration, provided that eritrea fulfils all international obligations, shows transparency and good governance and protection of human rights. however, concern is expressed regarding the human rights situation in the country, as eritrean refugees are among the largest groups of asylum seekers arriving in europe, while many of the political prisoners have been jailed without charge for more than a decade. i believe that, as much as this country can benefit from eu financial support, the aid must be targeted prudently at the communities in need, and the country has to have a good record of human rights protection and show transparency in the way the aid is being used.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2015 report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. in these difficult circumstances, when europe is facing the refugee crisis, macedonia has proven to be an active, responsible and reliable actor in its management. in these difficult circumstances, when the european union and europe more broadly are facing the refugee crisis, macedonia has proved to be an active, responsible and reliable actor in its management. despite the difficult internal political situation, despite the upcoming elections, this non-eu country is better able to protect european interests and schengen than some schengen countries.
in writing. ‒ i would support the 2015 report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, as i consider macedonia to be the country that has made the most progress in aligning with the eu acquis and has fulfilled many of the commitments under the june/july 2015 agreement. but they have much work to do. i believe that the implementation of reforms, particularly in the areas of the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary and the fight against corruption, is essential for the stability of the country. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the parties have agreed to the extension of the deadline for the submission of comments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 2015 report on macedonia, of which i was rapporteur. the text acknowledges the deep political crisis that the country has been going through since february last year, and clearly points out that the parties will have to respect the so-called przino agreement, a deal brokered in july 2015 between the government and the opposition, under the auspices of commissioner hahn and 3 meps. the resolution urges all sides concerned to carry out the necessary reforms that will pave the way for anticipated elections, which will take place on 5 june 2016. the resolution also takes stock of the progress that macedonia has made so far, reiterating that the commission´s recommendation to open access negotiations will this year be conditional upon substantial advancements in the urgent reform priorities and upon the carrying out of free, fair and democratic elections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the report on montenegro for 2015. i welcome the report on montenegro for 2015, which has made the most progress of any country in the western balkans. however, there is still much room for improvement. the commission also notes that the implementation of the eu's common foreign and security policy (cfsp) is not yet fully in place. the authorities also need to make more determined efforts to combat corruption and organised crime. i therefore welcome the fact that the montenegrin state prosecutor's office has initiated criminal proceedings against several officials in connection with high-level corruption in some montenegrin municipalities.
in writing. ‒ i supported the 2015 report on montenegro, as montenegro has proven to be one of those balkan countries where progress in accession negotiations is commendable and evident. although montenegro still faces many problematic challenges, especially in the area of justice and the fight against corruption, i believe that a number of positive legislative changes are an important step towards proactive and constructive rapprochement with the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 2015 report on montenegro. the republic of montenegro is the most advanced enlargement country in the negotiation process, which represents a stability factor for the western balkans and for the european union itself. montenegro has made remarkable progress in the implementation of reforms within its path towards eu membership, showing steady efforts in respecting european values and obligations. moreover, nato’s decision to invite montenegro to join the alliance will further strengthen its commitment to promote peace and foster stability in the country and in the wider region.
in writing. ‒ such reports on the banking union will be produced annually, which i believe is a step in the right direction for genuine parliamentary participation. as the first of these annual reports, it was also appropriate to have a large number of amendments, which i believe we have successfully bridged through joint efforts and compromises with the other political parties. the most controversial part, where there was the most disagreement, was the part of the report that dealt with edis. i must stress the need to establish uniform rules for the eu as a whole on when and how this mechanism can be used. in addition, i support the functioning of the ssm mechanism, which is crucial for the functioning of the banking union. in an extremely short period of time, despite the extreme complexity of the system, it has successfully overcome the challenges and the eu institutions will need to be further encouraged to implement positive regulatory changes in the banking sector in the medium term for a greater role in the global system, which should in no case affect the availability of funds for member states or interfere with the functioning of the market and competition, and thus affect the financial stability of banks and member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the banking union report annual report 2015. confidence in the banking system and in banks in the euro area has declined sharply during the economic and financial crisis. the crisis has hit the banking sector hard, but it has also exposed many of the weaknesses of banks. it was the same in slovenia. one of the problems we faced in slovenia was the large volume of badly secured loans that banks granted to companies during a period of high economic growth. because of badly secured loans, the banks never saw that money again. i welcome the establishment of the single supervisory mechanism, which has been successful since its inception, both in terms of its operational aspects and in terms of the quality of supervision. however, there is still a huge scope for improvement, for example at the level of planning control measures.
in writing. ‒ report on the banking union the 2015 annual report would be supported as recognised steps towards creating a banking union have been taken in the eu in the past year. in the past, meps have managed to move the largest eu banks under the supervision of the european central bank, while also adopting common provisions on tackling financial difficulties and banks. i believe that the creation of an efficient and transparent banking union remains a key area where we will need to ensure in the future, in addition to an effective single supervisory and resolution mechanism, a real disconnection between the state and banks, further strengthen investor confidence, create a level playing field and continuously improve financial stability. i believe that action in these areas will also lead to more responsible behaviour by those who take risks.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the banking union, annual report 2015. the banking union is an eu-level banking supervision and resolution system. it is one of the crucial components of the eu’s attempt to create a true economic and monetary union (emu) and to reinstate confidence in the banking sector, which was seriously damaged due to the financial crisis. the report assesses the work that has been done in 2015 as well as the mechanisms needed for supervision and regulation. the report equally focuses on the third pillar in the form of a european deposit insurance scheme (edis), which constitutes a single scheme for guaranteed deposits.
draft opinion of the committee on budgetary control. thank you to the rapporteur, mr karim, for his report. i am pleased that it also contains the recommendations adopted in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control. by applying the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality properly, we can actually achieve legislation that benefits citizens, businesses and workers, and avoid unnecessary administrative burdens. in particular, the committee on budgetary control has called on the commission to simplify the procedures for obtaining european union funds, in accordance with both principles. notification procedures shall be effective and focused on results. at the same time, the commission should better demonstrate and demonstrate the added value of the programmes under the multiannual financial framework in the beneficiary member states. the assessment of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality must be an essential element of the union and of the preparation and evaluation of its policies and of citizens' confidence in the european union.
question asked by raising the blue card. madam president, i have been a fruit grower since 1986 and have also been using glyphosate as one of the herbicides in fruit and wine production for some 25 years, where it is most widely used. believe me, those of us who use these preparations have the best interest in getting to the bottom of this, to the bottom of the truth. but i think the main thing about this product is that it's 40 years old, and after 40 years of use, there's no need to just take precautions and precautions... (the president interrupted the speaker. )
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we will vote on the use of erasmus+ and other instruments to promote mobility in vocational education and training. i am glad that parliament has prepared a resolution focusing on vocational education and training. as the ep's permanent rapporteur for the erasmus+ programme, i also follow the activities related to the old leonardo programme, which is now an integral part of erasmus. erasmus+ is of great importance for promoting mobility. unfortunately, due to various socioeconomic factors, only 1% of vet participants participate in mobility programmes. for many of them, mobility is not as natural as for university students. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. there is a need to facilitate co-financing from related programmes and mechanisms such as erasmus+, the european social fund, the youth guarantee and the youth employment initiative. we call on the commission and the member states to better promote and coordinate the functioning of existing mechanisms such as europass, ecvet and the european quality assurance reference framework for vocational education and training, and to continue their efforts to promote mutual recognition of study programmes, qualifications, non-formal and informal learning. increased mobility in vocational education and training will help to bridge the skills supply/demand gap and increase the employment of young people in the eu.
on behalf of the s&d group. i just got back from greece last week. with a heart full of sad, unforgettable, torturous scenes that every single one of us should have seen. so they know who we're talking about and what we're deciding. the politicians of all the member states should do their work on the ground, in order to see for themselves, through personal experience, who are the people whose lives we have not only made much more difficult but also devalued by our slow response, and above all by the complete lack of cooperation of the european union as a whole. the greek islands where the migrants are housed are becoming prisons, closed camps where, apart from food, the refugees have no legal, social, psychological or other assistance. they do not know their rights and opportunities, or, more often, they cannot use them at all. you are probably aware of the impossibility of the situation on the greek mainland. but i don't suppose you know that the only way for refugees to apply for asylum in the u.s. is via skype? this is a completely absurd situation. we must help greece with all the expertise and other resources we can. the relocations have to start working. this weekend, we experienced yet another inhumane situation on the macedonian border, when the macedonian police intervened. i am in favour of the early introduction of the revised dublin legislation, which would allow asylum seekers to apply for asylum in the european union rather than in a single country. this would relieve the burden on the countries affected and immediately share the burden of refugees. this of course requires the full cooperation of all member states, and if we do not achieve this, then it is pointless to talk about any further joint european action. i invite you, colleagues, to see the borders, the camps, the tents, and when you're in the field, you won't be able to turn the tv on or turn off your computer. because the responsibility for the innocent eyes of children will be too great.
i would like to make a few brief comments on this report. first, there is no doubt that the european union needs a comprehensive and unified approach to tackling the migration crisis. second, radicalization: intelligence services are talking about the infiltration of terrorists among refugees and migrants. their task is to radicalise migrants, so this is also proof that the migrant crisis and the security situation are linked. thirdly, securing the external border at this point, the proposal for a european border and coast guard is more than welcome, but implementation is still too slow. we should have had such a guard yesterday, and the support for frontex and europol should have been substantially increased. fourth: the european union must not allow turkey to be blackmailed in its management of the migrant crisis, otherwise it will lose its status as a partner like russia. fifth: macedonia this candidate has proved to be a true ally of the european union, thanks to which we have stopped the balkan route and made it possible to reach an agreement with turkey. paradoxically, the european union continues to punish macedonia for not setting a date for the opening of accession negotiations. sixthly, let me make it clear that i am strongly opposed to so-called dialogue or two-way integration. it implies the mutual adoption of values and behavioural patterns. i strongly disagree. finally, it should be made clear that once it is safe enough, refugees must return home, where they will be needed to rebuild the country.
in writing. according to frontex, 1.83 million people tried to enter the eu illegally last year, a number that is several times higher than in previous years and further indicates the scale of the refugee crisis. from the perspective of the eu budget, i welcome the increase in the asylum, migration and integration fund for last year and this year, but i regret the reduction in funding for legal migration and integration and better, fairer and more effective return strategies. there is also much room for improvement in the transparency of the expenditure of member states' and third countries' operations in the areas of migration, asylum and border management, which will also provide a clearer picture of the overall expenditure of the european union on migration. the scale of the crisis and the need for rapid action must not be an excuse for the indiscriminate use of the european union budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recasting of the legal act, as the original text has been amended too many times. by ensuring transparency and clarity, the legal act has become more understandable and readable. the proposed amendments to the articles empower the commission to adopt delegated acts concerning certain arrangements applicable to products originating in south africa. since the treaty of lisbon repealed article 134 of the treaty establishing the european community, the redundant reference in article 22 had to be deleted.
in writing. ‒ council regulation (ec) no 1528/2007, the so-called 'market access regulation', concerns arrangements for the import of goods originating in certain countries that are part of the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of countries. as provided for in the agreements, acp states which intend to establish or lead to the establishment of economic partnership agreements shall be taken into account. in this case, it is a matter of more favourable access to eu market rules for a number of products defined in the regulation and, in particular, of the elimination of import duties on the eu market if the products originate from the regions or countries listed in the annex to the regulation. in addition, the regulation also lays down rules for determining the origin of products from the regions or countries concerned, which may be amended in accordance with this proposal. the commission proposal concerns the codification and recasting of this regulation and aims to ensure transparency, clarity and simplification of eu legislation, as the original market access regulation has been amended nine times since its adoption in 2007. in the interests of clarity and legibility, i voted in favour of adopting the report on the proposal for a regulation on the application of the arrangements to goods originating in certain acp states, thus supporting the codification of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application of the arrangements for goods originating in certain countries of the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of states provided for in agreements establishing, or leading to the establishment of, economic partnership agreements. i support codification, which will ensure the transparency, clarity and simplification of eu legislation. eu legislation is in dire need of updating. the market access regulation provides for duty-free and quota-free access to the eu market for products originating in african, caribbean and pacific countries that are not least developed countries.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application of the arrangements for goods originating in certain countries in the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group set out in agreements establishing or leading to the establishment of economic partnership agreements (recast), as the purpose of the codification is to ensure transparency, clarity and simplification of eu legislation after the original legal act has been amended several times. the market access regulation has been amended nine times since its adoption in 2007, including alignment with the treaty of lisbon under the collective trade act ii and subsequent commission delegated regulations. codification is therefore essential to ensure clarity and legibility of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report regarding codification and modification of the ‘market access regulation’ (mar), governing imports of products originating in certain african, caribbean and pacific countries. this temporary instrument provides duty-free quota-free access to the eu market for products originating in non-ldc acp countries, leading to the conclusion and application of the respective wto-compatible economic partnership agreements (epas) before 1 october 2016. the aim of the codification application is to ensure transparency, clarity and simplification of the eu legislation after revising the original legal instrument numerous times. codification is crucial for ensuring clarity and readability of the regulation and this is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for the codification and revision of the regulation on the application of the arrangements for goods originating in certain countries of the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of states provided for in agreements establishing, or leading to the establishment of, economic partnership agreements. this temporary instrument provides for duty-free and quota-free access to the eu market for products originating in the acp states before 1 october 2016. i believe that this instrument supports and maintains smooth regional integration, promotes sustainable development and contributes to the overall efforts to eradicate poverty and improve living conditions in the acp states. the purpose of codification is also to ensure the transparency, clarity and simplification of eu legislation.
in writing. ‒ the new protocol, which is in line with the objectives of the fisheries partnership agreement between the union and greenland, strengthens and promotes cooperation and a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy. as the protocol is based on the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources and ecosystems in the greenland area, which is highly dependent on fisheries as its second most important economic industry, it is in the interest of both parties to focus more on the sustainable development of fisheries policy, the conservation of ecosystems and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources. the protocol itself also provides for a pilot fisheries programme for species not covered by the protocol and for scientific cooperation in the field of sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources, which is why i supported the agreement.
in writing. ‒ through fisheries partnership agreements, the eu obtains fishing rights for a large number of fish stocks in the exclusive economic zone of a partner country, while providing financial and technical support to that country. the fisheries partnership agreement with the government of denmark and the home rule government of greenland (the eu/greenland partnership) is the third most important agreement for the eu in terms of its economic value. parliament's consent is required for the conclusion of a new protocol to the agreement, which lays down the details for its implementation over the next five years. the new protocol provides for a financial contribution from the eu of eur 17,8 million per year, representing the amount for access to the greenlandic exclusive economic zone (eur 13,17 million) and a specific amount (eur 2,931 million) to support greenland's sectoral fisheries policy. fish accounts for almost 90% of greenland's exports; the most important segments are the capelin, greenland halibut and cod fisheries. this mixed agreement will provide eu vessels with access to a large number of fish stocks in the greenland exclusive economic zone. the new protocol is consistent with the objectives of the fisheries partnership agreement, as it promotes and enhances eu-greenland cooperation and provides for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the greenland fishing zone. i therefore voted in favour of the report and thus authorised the conclusion of the protocol.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community, of the one part, and the government of denmark and the home rule government of greenland, of the other part. the aim of the agreement is for the eu to provide financial and technical support in exchange for fishing rights. i support the conclusion of a new agreement which continues to provide significant economic benefits to the european union and greenland.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community, of the one part, and the government of denmark and the home rule government of greenland, of the other part, as these two countries cover a large fishing area which is ecologically biodiverse, pristine and consequently provides the eu market with healthy seafood. the eu-greenland fisheries partnership agreement is one of the most important for the eu in terms of economic value and the only such agreement with a nordic country. almost all greenland's exports of fishery products are destined for the eu, with denmark accounting for more than 90% of imports into the eu. frozen goats, greenland halibut and cod are the main exports. the eu shall pay a fixed annual financial contribution for access, irrespective of fishing opportunities, in accordance with the protocol. the current protocol provides for a financial contribution from the eu of €17.85 million per year.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and the financial contribution provided for by the fisheries partnership agreement with the government of denmark and the home rule government of greenland. recently the european union has signed a number of fisheries partnership agreements (fpas) and protocols with ‘third countries’ providing financial and technical support in exchange for fishing rights to a wide range of fish stocks in the partner country’s exclusive economic zone. the specific fpa with the government of denmark and the home rule government of greenland is particularly significant to the eu for generating substantial economic benefits through fishing opportunities. while greenland’s economy is highly dependent on the fisheries sector, its flora and fauna should be well preserved as part of the unique arctic region. the renewed protocol takes into consideration ecological and economic aspects of the agreement, which is the reason i voted in favour of its conclusion.
in writing. ‒ the fisheries partnership agreement is the third most important agreement, with strong economic value and mutual benefits for the economies of both partners. that is why i supported it, as it strengthens cooperation between the eu and greenland and promotes a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources.
in writing. ‒ international relations in the field of aviation between member states and third countries are normally governed by bilateral air transport agreements. the european court of justice has found that the existing agreement with macao is contrary to the eu legal order, as it allows a third country to refuse, withdraw or suspend the authorisation or privileges of an air carrier designated by a member state. since this has been found to constitute discrimination against eu carriers established in the territory of a member state, even though that carrier is not majority owned by that member state or its nationals, and since this is contrary to article 49 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, this proposal amends or supplements existing provisions contained in bilateral agreements. i therefore voted in favour of this agreement, which also covers the right to set up a company, safety provisions, the taxation of aviation fuel and anti-competitive practices.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has concluded an agreement with the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china on certain aspects of air transport. international relations in the field of aviation between member states and third countries are normally governed by bilateral agreements. in 2002, the european court of justice ruled that certain clauses in these bilateral air services agreements were contrary to eu law, as they could discriminate against certain eu carriers (for example, if they are based in the territory of a certain member state but are owned and controlled by nationals of other member states). in order to ensure equal treatment of nationals of member states and, in general, compliance with the eu acquis, it was decided to amend/add to the existing provisions of the bilateral agreements. the commission has negotiated an agreement with macao replacing certain provisions in the existing 15 bilateral air transport agreements concluded between eu member states and macao. the main aspects of the agreement are: an eu designation clause allowing all eu carriers to exercise the right of establishment; a safety clause; a provision on the taxation of aviation fuel; an article prohibiting anti-competitive practices. i therefore voted in favour of the recommendation and thereby gave a favourable opinion on the conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on certain aspects of air transport between the european union and the government of the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china. the agreement will upgrade and update the existing 15 bilateral air transport agreements between the member states and the macao sar. the new agreement extends the safety provisions to cases where the prescribed control of an air carrier is not exercised by the member state that designated the air carrier and introduces a clause prohibiting anti-competitive practices.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on certain aspects of air transport between the european union and the government of the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china, as the commission has thus negotiated an agreement replacing certain provisions of the existing 15 bilateral air transport agreements between the eu member states and the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the conclusion of the agreement on specific aspects of air services between the european union and the government of the macao special administrative region of the people’s republic of china. the international aviation relations between member states and third countries have traditionally been governed by bilateral air services agreements, which were found discriminatory and in breach of the eu law by the european court of justice in 2002. the commission has, hence, negotiated the agreement replacing certain provisions in the existing 15 bilateral air services agreements concluded between eu member states and macao special administrative region of the people’s republic of china with the aim of prohibiting anti-competitive practices.
in writing. i have supported the agreement on certain aspects of air transport between the european union and the government of the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china. it will replace and complement certain provisions in the existing 15 bilateral air transport agreements between eu member states and the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china which were in conflict with the eu legal order and the principles of free establishment of companies, the principle of equal treatment in a member state and competition provisions.
in writing. ‒ the old vat directive, which was in force from 1 january 2011 to 31 december 2015, provided that the vat rate could not be lower than 15%. such legislation is necessary to establish and operate the internal market and to prevent distortions of competition, which means that cross-border distance sales and purchases below a certain threshold are still cleared at the place of origin rather than at the place of destination. therefore, the uniform application of the minimum rate of value added tax in all member states is a useful measure to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. the commission is already preparing an action plan which will set out the guidelines and main features of the final vat arrangements for intra-eu trade. as decisions on the final version of the scheme are yet to be taken, i voted in favour of extending and maintaining the 15% general minimum vat rate for the period until 31 december 2017, allowing for a more in-depth discussion of the vat rates in the light of the future action plan of the european commission.
in writing. ‒ a single market, with a monetary union and economic union, needs to fully converge also at fiscal level. i support the fact that the union should further undergo a harmonisation process of its tax system. even though the proposal of the commission mainly addresses the extension of the current situation, setting a minimum of 15% for vat in all member states, the adequate response calls the commission to keep on working on a proposal that could definitely put all member states under the umbrella of a common tax system, not only at the level of vat.
in writing. ‒ with the single market in place on 1 january 1993, the commission presented proposals for the introduction of a definitive tax harmonisation regime. the council decision was followed by a transitional system, whereby directive 92/77/eec introduced a system of minimum rates for vat rates and provided that the overall rate of vat could not be lower than 15% in any member state. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measure was granted by the state. the general minimum rate of vat in all member states is a useful provision as it ensures the proper functioning of the internal market. in addition, it also gives member states room for manoeuvre for vat reforms, since only the lowest overall rate is fixed (currently the overall vat rate in all member states is above 15%). the commission intends to publish an action plan in 2016 for the introduction of a simple and efficient final value added tax system appropriate to the single market. decisions on the final scheme have not yet been taken, so i voted in favour of the proposal to extend the current scheme for three years, i.e. until 31 december 2017.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council directive amending the directive on the common system of value added tax as regards the duration of the obligation to comply with the general minimum rate. as the commission published its proposal so late, the general minimum vat rate of 15% will apply retroactively. however, from the beginning of 2016 until the end of 2018, the overall vat rate should not be lower than 15%, thereby giving member states room to manoeuvre for vat reforms. i expect and hope that as soon as possible this year the european commission will publish an action plan defining a vat system which, with its simplicity, efficiency and fraud-proofness, is suited to the single market.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2006/112/ec on the common system of value added tax as regards the duration of the obligation to respect a general minimum rate. with a view to establishing the internal market as from 1 january 1993, the european commission has put forward proposals designed to establish a definitive system of tax harmonization. however, when it became clear that it would be impossible for the european commission to adopt the proposals before 1 january 1993, the council decided to adopt a transitional arrangement. as regards vat rates, it has adopted directive 92/77/eec. this directive introduced a system of minimum rates. provided that from 1 january 1993 to 31 december 1996 the general rate may not be lower than 15% in any member state. this provision has been extended five times and is set to expire on 31 december 2015. the purpose of this proposal is to extend the current situation for a period of two years, so that the minimum overall vat rate in the member states is 15%.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the common system of value added tax, with regard to the duration of the obligation to respect a minimum standard rate. the vat directive provides that from 1 january 2011 until 31 december 2015, the standard rate may not be less than 15%, specifying that the council shall adopt provisions for the harmonisation of legislation concerning turnover taxes. the harmonisation is necessary to ensure the establishment and functioning of the internal market and to avoid distortion of competition.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to extend the current arrangement of the system of minimum overall rates for three years, which provides that the overall rate in no member state may be less than 15%. the extended timeframe provides the necessary legal certainty for stakeholders and is appropriate to prepare quality reforms for the introduction of the definitive tax harmonisation regime, which will allow for an efficient and smooth functioning of the internal market, which will prevent fraud.
in writing. ‒ europol has the power to conclude agreements with third countries listed in the council decision on mutual cooperation in preventing and combating organised crime, terrorism and other forms of serious crime. meps voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the proposed approval of the strategic cooperation agreement between europol and brazil. since the proposal is based on strategic cooperation and excludes the exchange of personal data, the protection of personal data is not in question, since it concerns the exchange of operational, strategic, technical or classified information. as brazil's role in the fight against organised crime, trafficking in human beings, drug trafficking, credit card fraud and other cybercrime related activities is increasingly important, such cooperation is certainly beneficial as it will help to strengthen international cooperation in the field of crime prevention, detection and investigation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by europol of the strategic cooperation agreement between the federative republic of brazil and the european police office (europol). i support the conclusion of an agreement that will allow the exchange of operational, strategic, technical or classified information, without the exchange of personal data, between brazil and europol. i reject any such agreements with third countries with which we will strengthen the fight against organised crime, such as illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings or drug-related crime.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the report by europol on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion of the strategic cooperation agreement between the federative republic of brazil and the european police office (europol). this proposal concerns the proposed approval of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and brazil. such strategic cooperation excludes the exchange of personal data and therefore the issue of personal data protection is not relevant in this case. the information exchanged could include expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and methods of crime prevention, information on training activities and advice and support in individual criminal investigations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the decision approving the conclusion of the agreement on strategic cooperation between the federative republic of brazil and europol. this report entails strategic cooperation agreement between europol and brazil, where the information exchanged could include specialist knowledge, information on criminal investigation procedures and crime-prevention methods. brazil is increasingly relevant in the fight against organised crime, such as illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, as well as drug and cyber—crime related activities. this report helps to reinforce the fight against organised crime and contributes to enhancing international law enforcement and cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i supported europol's cooperation with brazil, as recent data show that brazilian cooperation is increasingly important in preventing and combating terrorism, organised crime, for example in the area of facilitating illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, drug-related crime, and credit card abuse, as well as other activities related to cybercrime.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr herman winkler, member of the european parliament, because the public prosecutor's office in leipzig, germany, had requested that it be waived in connection with the initiation of investigative proceedings into the alleged criminal offence of causing a serious road traffic accident which occurred on 23 september 2015 and in which the member was also involved. in the light of the information, there is no reason to believe that the legal proceedings were initiated with the intention of causing political damage to the member.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the request for waiver of immunity of hermann winkler, having regard to the request for waiver of immunity submitted by the leipzig state prosecutor's office on 25 september 2015 in connection with the investigation of the road accident (under no 600 ar 3037/15) and announced in plenary on 14 december 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for waiver of the immunity of hermann winkler in connection with launching investigative proceedings concerning an alleged offence, as the alleged offence has no connection with the position of hermann winkler as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's decision to request the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr hermann winkler, since he was the subject of an investigation into an alleged criminal offence and since, according to the information obtained by the committee, there was no reason to believe that the judicial proceedings had been initiated with the intention of causing political damage to the member.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on fisheries aspects of the international convention on marine biodiversity. marine activities are developing rapidly and their numbers are increasing rapidly, increasing the strain on and the exploitation of marine biodiversity. the latest report of the working group highlights the need for a comprehensive global system to better address this issue and recommends the development of an internationally legally binding instrument for the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity.
in writing. ‒ in june 2015, a un resolution launched the development of a new legally binding international instrument for the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction. this instrument is being developed within the framework of the united nations convention on the law of the sea (unclos). the ocean plays a vital role in many of the earth's systems, and is also the site of a large number of human activities, such as fishing, trade and transport. more than half (64%) of the seas particularly the high seas and the deep seabed are areas beyond the national jurisdiction of states and governed by international law. however, less than 1% of these areas outside national jurisdiction are protected by the establishment of marine protected areas. it is important that fishing activities are also included in this new instrument, as fishing is one of the most important activities in the waters. the new instrument should complement and not replace the existing structure (networks of international regional bodies regulating fisheries in specific marine areas). this will also take account of fisheries in areas where there is currently no international organisation. i believe that marine biodiversity should be protected and preserved, while taking into account the fisheries aspect, and i therefore supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the fisheries aspects of the international agreement on marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction, the united nations convention on the law of the sea. i support the report which stresses the importance of the conservation and sustainable use of oceans and seas and their resources, while calling on the eu and the international community to promote the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity by introducing, among other measures, modern and sustainable concepts of marine ecosystem management, the principle of ocean governance and the management of the exploitation of marine resources.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the fisheries aspects of the international convention on marine biodiversity in outermost areas, the united nations convention on the law of the sea. agenda 21 is a document that addresses the importance of protecting the world's waters and was released at the united nations conference on environment and development in rio de janeiro in june 1992. it demonstrated that the international community recognises the need for an international approach to control pollution and increase the sustainability threat to marine biodiversity. in the years that followed, several declarations and documents on sustainable development were issued on this topic. in january 2015, the working group presented its latest report, highlighting the need for a comprehensive global system to better address this issue and recommending the development of an international legally binding instrument, in accordance with unclos, for the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction. on the basis of that recommendation, in july 2015 the un general assembly decided to establish a preparatory commission with the aim of preparing an internationally legally binding instrument to be adopted by the end of 2017.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on fisheries aspects within the international agreement on marine biodiversity. the report emphasizes the importance of the preservation and conservation of marine biological diversity as a global concern. it praises the work of the unga and ad hoc open-ended informal working group in making the issue of marine biological diversity an international, legally binding instrument beyond areas of national jurisdiction. it equally underlines the need for the inclusion of fishing activities in this new instrument.
in writing. ‒ the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity is directly linked to long-term development and therefore has social, economic and environmental implications for all countries and regions. the seas and oceans have enormous potential for renewable energy and pharmaceuticals. the eu plays a key role in the global governance of the seas and oceans and has a major international influence in the field of fisheries. i therefore support efforts to conserve and manage the long-term development of marine biodiversity.
in writing. ‒ meps unanimously supported the european commission's proposal for a draft law on zootechnical and genealogical conditions for trade in and imports into the union of breeding animals and their germinal products. the law provides for greater transparency over the breeding of breeding animals and their embryos. it covers four major areas: the structured breeding sector, rules on the keeping of breeding books/registers, rules on intra-eu trade and imports from third countries, and rules on official controls and inspections by the commission. it is a very sophisticated bill that regulates areas where various issues and many uncertainties have arisen so far.
in writing. ‒ a well-functioning sector of breeding animals is crucial for the eu's animal husbandry, generating an estimated €1.89 billion in value added. the new regulation brings together all existing zootechnical parts of the legislation and provides for a harmonised structure for breeding animals, in particular for bovine, ovine, caprine, porcine and equine animals. the new rules cover internal trade in breeding animals and germinal products, their importation into the eu and rules for eu breeders exporting to third countries. herding plays a key role in the conservation of endangered species and the protection of biodiversity. it therefore lays down zootechnical and genealogical rules for the conservation and improvement of breeding animals of the breed and rules governing the conservation and improvement of indigenous or endangered breeds. 'breeding societies' and breeding programmes will have to fulfil certain conditions to obtain recognition from national authorities; the new rules will ensure a minimum level of their rights and obligations. in addition, rules on the registration and classification of breeding animals will be harmonised and performance testing on imported animals will be strengthened to ensure compliance with eu standards. i think it is important to have specific rules to take account of the specificities of each species and also to preserve and improve indigenous or endangered breeds. that's why i endorsed the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on zootechnical and genealogical conditions for trade in and imports into the union of breeding animals and their germinal products. i support the amendments proposed in the report, such as the proposal for a text, that the promotion of competitiveness must not lead to the extinction of breeds whose characteristics are adapted to a particular biophysical environment. the proposal also includes a provision that all actors in the zootechnical sector, in particular in the genetic improvement of breeds, should take into account animal health and welfare, together with the conditions for the transport of live animals.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on zootechnical and genealogical conditions for trade in and imports into the union of breeding animals and their germinal products. the report updates and improves existing eu zootechnical legislation covering breeding, trade and import of breeding animals, thus reducing red tape and simplifying procedures, which in this case is good for both people and animals. a well-functioning breeding sector is crucial for animal breeding in the eu. its value added is estimated at almost eur 2 billion. the european commission's proposal addresses four main issues: (1) the structuring of the breeding sector; (2) rules on the management of stud books/registers, animal breeding and performance testing and genetic value assessment; (3) rules on intra-eu trade and imports from third countries; (4) rules on official controls and inspections by the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the zootechnical and genealogical conditions for trade in and imports into the union of breeding animals and their germinal products. the proposal seeks to modernise and strengthen in one regulation a number of individual segments of species-specific legislation relating to bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine species including requirements for recognition and listing of breeding organisations, classification and certification of breeding animals and official controls and zootechnical checks.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on zootechnical and genealogical conditions for trade in and imports into the union of breeding animals and their germinal products, as i find that it brings greater legal certainty for all stakeholders and ensures a harmonised approach to trade in and imports into the union of breeding animals and their germinal products and to the official controls to be carried out on breeding programmes and companies. since the objective of the proposal for a regulation cannot be sufficiently achieved by the member states at national level and can therefore, by reason of its impact, complexity and cross-border and international nature, be better achieved at union level,
in writing. ‒ my colleagues and i supported the report of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for an eu integrated approach to migration. we agreed that the eu must take an even more active approach to saving and preventing the loss of lives of migrants at sea, while ensuring the successful integration of migrants and a high level of internal security of the member states. we strongly condemned the criminal activities of criminal groups, such as smuggling, trafficking in human beings and labour exploitation, in connection with illegal migration.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the report and agree that only the eu can provide the right answers to the migration crisis, which is not a challenge only for the countries that face the mediterranean, but also those facing the south—eastern routes. uncoordinated action from member states is highly deterring and the eu is the best frame to endeavour a truly holistic approach.
in writing. ‒ according to frontex, 1.83 million people were caught trying to cross the eu's external borders illegally in 2015, compared to 282 500 in 2014. according to the international organization for migration and unicef, 20% of all migrants arriving by sea are children. in addition, according to the international organisation for migration, more than 3771 people lost their lives or went missing in the mediterranean sea in 2015, and an eu integrated approach to migration is urgently needed. the report stresses that the union's action in the field of migration must be based on the principle of solidarity, which covers asylum, immigration and border control policies. the report highlights areas where action is needed in line with the principle of solidarity: search and rescue, combating trafficking and smuggling, relocation and resettlement, humanitarian reception, revision of the dublin iii regulation, the list of safe countries of origin, a new european border and coast guard, management and security of external borders, cooperation with third countries, additional funding in the field of migration, legal labour migration and other aspects. this is why i supported the report on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for an eu integrated approach to migration.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for an eu integrated approach to migration. according to frontex, 1.83 million people tried to enter the eu illegally last year, a number that is several times higher than in previous years and further indicates the scale of the refugee crisis. from the perspective of the eu budget, i welcome the increase in the asylum, migration and integration fund for last year and this year, but i regret the reduction in funding for legal migration and integration and better, fairer and more effective return strategies. there is also much room for improvement in the transparency of the expenditure of member states' and third countries' operations in the areas of migration, asylum and border management, which will also provide a clearer picture of the overall expenditure of the european union on migration. the scale of the crisis and the need for rapid action must not be an excuse for the indiscriminate use of the european union budget.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for an eu integrated approach to migration. the report is the result of almost a year of work in the libe committee, 8 working papers, exchanges of views with experts and a large number of stakeholders, one libe operation in lampedusa related to security and rescue and one operation related to eu-tunisia cooperation in the field of migration, asylum and border management. the report aims to assess the various sensitive aspects of migration, asylum and border management, develop a set of recommendations and reports in the form of a strategic report, initiated by a comprehensive plan, with a view to a short, medium and long-term response.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for a holistic eu approach to migration. the report analyses the current state of affairs touching upon the matters such as trafficking and exploitation of illegal immigrants, border management and visa policy and the overall complexity and tragedy of the unsafe refugee routes. the report underlines solidarity as the principle upon which union action on migration is based, where the main priority is to save lives, calling for strengthening of the search and rescue capacities.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the situation in the mediterranean. in addition to the above, i would add that the eu needs a holistic approach to tackling the migration crisis, which is also linked to the security situation. the main issues to be addressed are the protection of the external borders, the acceleration of the establishment of the european border and coast guard, the financial and human resources support to frontex and europol, and the need to avoid the blackmailing of turkey. i would like to stress that i am strongly opposed to so-called dialogue or two-way integration, which presupposes the mutual acceptance of values and behaviour patterns.
in writing. ‒ meps have overwhelmingly supported the 2012 and 2013 annual reports on subsidiarity and proportionality, as they are an integral part of policy-making to assess the appropriateness of european union action in pursuing policy objectives in relation to national and regional initiatives. i therefore regard as very positive the initiative to adopt a green card, which would allow national parliaments to propose the introduction, amendment or repeal of union legislation. but there are certainly still areas where national and regional policies have more experience and a better overview of the regulation of certain things than the brussels administration.
in writing. ‒ the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are the fundamental guiding principles of the european union and the report welcomes the fact that in 2012 and 2013 the eu institutions and national parliaments carefully reviewed the consistency of these two principles. the fact that national parliaments are more closely involved and involved in the european legislative process is a positive development, as it raises awareness of the eu's fundamental principles, including subsidiarity and proportionality, in the interinstitutional framework. in addition, national parliaments are important for their territorial influence and proximity to citizens, and all parliaments need to be more involved in the european debate. since impact assessments are important decision-making tools in the legislative process, they should also take into account issues related to subsidiarity and proportionality. thorough impact assessments could increase citizens' confidence, as the principle of subsidiarity is a key element of the democratic process, and impact assessments could provide a precise assessment of compliance with this principle. the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, as set out in article 5 of the treaty on european union, should guide the exercise of the union's competences. that is why i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the 2012 and 2013 annual reports on subsidiarity and proportionality. by applying the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality properly, we can actually achieve legislation that benefits citizens, businesses and workers and avoids unnecessary administrative burdens. in particular, the committee on budgetary control has called on the commission to simplify the procedures for obtaining eu funds in line with both principles. notification procedures shall be effective and focused on results. at the same time, the commission should better demonstrate and demonstrate the added value of the programmes under the multiannual financial framework in the beneficiary member states. the assessment of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality must be an essential element of the union and the preparation and evaluation of its policies and for the confidence of citizens in the eu. a hammer is sufficient to drive the nails, no heavy machinery is needed and not every problem needs to be solved at eu level but can be appropriately dealt with at national level.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the annual reports on subsidiarity and proportionality 2012 and 2013 as i support closer cooperation and greater involvement of national parliaments in the european legislative process, resulting in a greater awareness of the principles on which the eu is founded, including the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in the interinstitutional framework. the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are an integral part of eu policy-making and management, and are used to determine whether eu action is achieving better results than national or regional policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the annual reports 2012-2013 on subsidiarity and proportionality. the report emphasises that the use of the eu’s competences should be guided by the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. it equally points out the crucial importance of proper consultation, dialogue and involvement of citizens, smes and civil society in the eu decision-making process for trade policy.
in writing. ‒ the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are the european union's fundamental guiding principles for determining whether measures taken at union level can achieve objectives more effectively than at national, regional or local level. of course, the principle of the economic viability of the legislative procedure must also be respected in order to ensure that the procedure for adopting legal acts remains transparent, rapid and efficient. the annual reports represent a good compromise between the principles of subsidiarity, proportionality and economy, and i supported them.
in writing. ‒ meps have overwhelmingly supported the regulatory fitness and performance programme (refit) because we believe that bureaucratic procedures need to be shortened. by simplifying and improving legislation, we are striving to achieve the objectives of this policy with the least administrative burden and in the shortest possible time, while fully respecting the treaties and, in particular, the principles of subsidiarity. as a result, we also reduce the administrative burden on businesses and remove obstacles to economic growth and job creation.
in writing. ‒ the regulatory fitness and performance programme (refit) is a key element of the commission's new strategy for better lawmaking. the refit programme is intended to consolidate better law-making procedures, simplify eu law and reduce administrative and regulatory burdens. the report covers a range of areas such as better regulation, transparency and consultation of stakeholders, impact assessments and the implementation of eu law in the member states. simplification of legislation (refit) may reduce the level of ambition in legislation on certain issues, namely human welfare and environmental protection, because there is no proper distinction between reducing administrative burdens and reducing regulatory burdens. reducing regulatory burdens may call into question the very existence of laws and the protection afforded by them. the report does not limit its emphasis to impact assessment and more specifically to the assessment of competitiveness, as this remains an important part of the impact assessment process. in addition, the report does not make a clear distinction between reducing administrative burdens and regulatory burdens, which is why i voted against the report on the regulatory fitness and performance programme (refit).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the regulatory fitness and performance programme: state of play and prospects. we have often stressed that we need good legislation at european union level, which is not complicated and which contributes to good governance, where impact assessment and ex post control play an important role without replacing political decision-making. i support the report which stresses that better regulation should embrace the 'culture' of public administration at all levels of the european union and take account of excessive bureaucracy in the eu and the need to simplify legislation.
in writing. ‒ report on the regulatory fitness and performance programme (refit): i supported the state of play and the prospects. refit is an important first step towards simplifying legislation and reducing the regulatory burden on businesses and removing obstacles to growth and job creation. the commission's commitment to a simple, clear, harmonised and predictable regulatory framework, as presented in the programme, is important.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the regulatory fitness and performance programme (refit): state of play and outlook, as the programme represents a key component of the new commission strategy for better law making. the refit programme aims to consolidate better law—making procedures, to simplify eu law and reduce administrative and regulatory burdens, while maintaining open, transparent and regular dialogue with representative associations and civil society.
in writing. ‒ monitoring the adequacy and effectiveness of regulations is a key element in improving the preparation of european legislation so that it does not become an end in itself. i therefore supported the refit regulatory fitness and performance programme report, which calls, inter alia, for a clearer wording of the rules, easier implementation and a contribution to the rule of law for all actors. simpler and smarter legal regulation will lead to consistent transposition and more efficient and uniform enforcement in the member states.
in writing. ‒ by voting for the resolution on improving single market rules, meps supported an initiative to improve the single market's regulation to make it more effective. we are aware that the single market is an essential tool for the relaunch of economic growth and job creation in the european union. at the same time, the main objectives of the announced strategy should be, in particular, to better govern the single market, building on past experience in the areas of the free movement of goods and services, the digital single market, professional qualifications and public procurement. specific tools to ensure a competitive regulatory environment for our businesses, to support growth and job creation and to strengthen consumer confidence in european legislation need to be further explored.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to express parliament's opinion on the level and type of regulation needed to improve the functioning of the single market. i do not agree that improving the functioning of the single market means more power and more subsidiarity on the part of the member states. the fact is that the member states have chosen to lose part of their sovereignty when they join the eu. therefore, in my view, the essence of a better single market is not deregulation but closer and better cooperation between member states. i believe that an efficient and well-functioning internal market can make a positive contribution to competitiveness and job creation in the eu. as regards the sovereignty of the member states, it is necessary to maintain it at a certain level and to allow the member states to decide for themselves on certain important matters. the principle of proportionality should be respected in the case of subsidiarity. this is of course important to the member states, but if they want the single market to work as planned and desired, then the member states must renounce it to a certain extent. it is also necessary to realise that improving the regulation of the single market does not mean abolishing all regulations, but the necessary regulatory environment that will not be too burdensome for businesses, but at the same time not too lax. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on better single market rules. after the economic and financial crisis, which affected all member states and whose effects are still felt in some countries today, most notably in the high level of unemployment, the single market is an important tool for the relaunch of economic growth and job creation in the european union. i agree with the report that the regulation of the single market should be a priority and a shared responsibility of the eu institutions, while stressing the importance of transparent and accessible information.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on better single market regulation, as improving the single market is a shared responsibility of all the institutions of the european union. on the basis of this concept, the european union should strive to improve this regime. it is the responsibility of all to respect the guiding principle of subsidiarity when deciding on action, to decide how best to act when regulation is needed and finally to ensure that measures and obligations are simple and used in an effective way to achieve agreed objectives. good legislation cannot be ensured in one part of the process alone, but by acting effectively throughout the policy-making cycle. the transposition and implementation of the single market regime is of paramount importance to the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. it is important to see the implementation of legislation and secondary legislation not as a mere element of the process but as an integral part of the process to ensure the benefits of the single market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on ‘towards improved single market regulation’. the report states that the single market is a key tool for boosting economic growth and job creation in the union. however, its market framework remains fragmented, as the member states have not fully transposed or correctly implemented eu legislation. the report suggests strengthening the role of the single market as a separate pillar of the european semester process. it equally presents tools to improve single market regulation, the consultation and implementation processes, as well as monitoring and problem solving.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendations of the resolution calling for improved governance of the single market. an effective regime is based on transparent and consistent legislation and on respect for the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. i believe that a well-functioning internal market system is essential to boost the european economy, which maintains competitiveness and the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and creates jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on learning about the eu in schools. it seems to me very important that one of the important tasks of the education system is also to educate fully aware citizens and to prepare them for life and active citizenship in increasingly complex, demanding and integrated societies, whether at home or abroad. recent polls have shown that more and more people feel they do not fully understand how the eu works, and more than 50 per cent of europeans feel that their voice in the eu does not count. i am convinced that raising awareness and teaching about the benefits of european policies in schools, such as the free movement of people and services within the union, eu mobility programmes, the benefits of the single market, etc., can contribute to developing a sense of belonging to a common european union. this also prevents a general rise in euroscepticism in the member states and candidate countries, which is mainly due to ignorance and lack of awareness of the eu's workings.
in writing. ‒ only 42.61% of eu citizens and only 27.8% of people aged 18-24 participated in the last european parliament elections, the lowest turnout since 1979 (eurobarometer data). the european union is facing the challenge of growing eu-skepticism. it is crucial to find ways of making citizens aware of the eu's structures and policies. the values of democracy and diversity need to be affirmed, access to all rights enabled and the eu in general reported on. it is also clear that the distance between the eu and its citizens has been exacerbated by the inability to understand how the institutions work and how to participate in the political life of the eu. to raise citizens' awareness, it is necessary to start in schools by including eu affairs in the curriculum. the main themes included in the report for enhancing the sense of belonging to the eu are: formal and non-formal education, intercultural approach to education policy, participation in critical thinking, mobility between students and teachers (to have first-hand experience of learning about other contexts in the eu), language learning and recognition of the importance of the language issue in communicating european messages. there is a need to strengthen the dialogue on the eu in schools, associations and the public sphere. in order to promote a sense of european identity, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on learning about the eu in schools. many opinion polls show that there is still a high percentage of citizens who know little about the european union. this is due to a number of factors. we will certainly improve this rate considerably and bring the european union closer to the people if we introduce european union education in schools. today we are also faced with high voter abstention in european parliament elections and a lack of trust in european institutions, so that learning about the european union in schools would also contribute to higher voter turnout and to greater public trust in the eu institutions. i support the idea that the eu should be more visible and better integrated into teaching materials and out-of-school activities.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on learning about the eu in schools, as the european union is currently facing unprecedented challenges. in recent years, it has been experiencing a major economic and financial crisis. the social and political consequences of this crisis call into question the institutions and the common values of the union, including the notion of a european identity. in this context, it seems more important than ever to strengthen the dialogue on the eu in our schools, associations and public spaces in order to restore citizens' confidence in the merits and the urgency of the european integration process.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on ‘learning eu at school’. the report underlines the increasing importance of a european dimension in education across the different disciplines, levels and forms of education. it equally points out that the union should be more visible, and better integrated, in teaching materials and extracurricular activities.
in writing. ‒ in the current situation, strengthening the dialogue on european union issues in schools and other public spaces is crucial to rebuilding citizens' trust and promoting the european integration process. to this end, i also supported the report on learning about the eu in schools. i believe that one of the most important objectives of education is to prepare individuals for life and active citizenship in the european union and to contribute to strengthening the role of the values enshrined in article 2 teu.
in writing. ‒ with my colleagues, i supported the erasmus+ report and a stronger promotion of mobility in vocational education and training by a large majority. the introduction of erasmus+ has provided many new opportunities for young people to participate and train in the european higher education area, and we are therefore committed to a similar initiative in the field of vocational education and training. accessibility and openness, with a view to encouraging an individualised approach to vocational education, are just some of the things that would enable future generations of learners to acquire certain virtues through experience gained in a different working and learning environment, such as easier mobility, language skills, better response to critical situations, entrepreneurial logic, communication skills, experience of group work, exchange of good practices and strengthening cooperation with entrepreneurs and chambers of commerce.
in writing. ‒ a report on erasmus+ and other tools to promote mobility in vocational education and training the lifelong learning approach calls on the member states and the commission to take new measures, both in qualitative and quantitative terms, in order to make the erasmus+ mobility opportunities allow a better and more effective link between vocational education and training and labour market integration. the proposed lines of reform and adaptation include, among others, simplifying the application procedure for erasmus+, strengthening the role of intermediary institutions (territorial and sectoral, involved in the preparation, management and monitoring of mobility), the evaluation and recognition of skills and competences, promoting a long-term period of mobility, enabling complementary financial measures, appropriate training and professional development for teachers. the report also aims to provide at least a partial response to the current economic and social situation in the various european countries. it aims to reduce unemployment, especially among young people, by creating a strong link between education and training and employment. the introduction of mobility programmes for all (students, staff and schools) through erasmus+ has been a major step forward for mobility as a cross-cutting concept in the european higher education area. the report proposes measures to improve the mobility of young people in vocational training and to improve the validation and recognition of learning outcomes, skills and competences. that's why i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on erasmus+ and other instruments to promote mobility in vocational education and training the approach to lifelong learning. the global economic and financial crisis that affected the eu in the past is still having negative consequences in some countries, mainly reflected in high unemployment. in addition, the problem is that the supply of skills and the demand for them are not in sync. i strongly support the clear position in the report that education is a fundamental human right and a public good that should be equally accessible to all.
in writing. ‒ report on erasmus+ and other tools to promote mobility in vocational education and training i supported the lifelong learning approach, as the adoption of erasmus+, which replaced several previous programmes, represents a significant advance for the concept of mobility throughout the european higher education area. we therefore need a genuine and ambitious mobility programme that will be an indispensable part of all the overall strategies to revive the economy and reduce youth unemployment rates, which are totally unacceptable for individual countries and for europe as a whole. all this shows that a higher quantitative and qualitative ambition of some of the current areas of work envisaged under erasmus+ is becoming increasingly necessary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on erasmus+ and other tools to foster mobility in vocational education. we in alde consider mobility in vocational education and training (vet) crucial for ensuring personal development, improvement of language skills and employability. the report’s primary aim is to attract attention to the need to implement measures to foster mobility in vocational education, such as centralising information and facilitating contacts among all participants involved in mobility programmes.
in writing. ‒ i supported a report calling for greater visibility of vocational education and training programmes. the report identifies policy actions for all vocational training actors. i believe it is essential that entrepreneurs, chambers of commerce and industry and the relevant chambers of commerce, craft and agriculture, as well as trade unions and other relevant social partners, are actively involved in the design, organisation, implementation and financing of vocational education and training.
in writing. ‒ by voting in favour, i supported the amendments tabled by my colleagues in the european parliament on the eu's role in the international financial, monetary and regulatory institutions and bodies. as a privileged forum for public debate on the internal market in financial services, the european parliament can contribute to european legislation adopted by the 28 member states, in particular by guiding and representing the european position in important negotiations. in doing so, it also monitors whether the commitments made are also being fulfilled in practice.
in writing. ‒ in the aftermath of the global financial crisis, and particularly in the context of the euro area crisis, international bodies (such as the g20, the international monetary fund, the basel committee, etc.) have played a very important role in shaping standards and procedures for financial regulation and cooperation, for financial assistance programmes and for macroeconomic policy in general. the report aims to issue a set of specific recommendations to the european parliament on the participation of the eu institutions in these international bodies and their decision-making process, including the adoption of an eu common position. the stability of the financial system is essential for investment and growth, but the free flow of capital depends on the ability to develop and enforce standards and rules of conduct at transnational level. the european union and the euro area must be able to protect their interests effectively. the report calls for transparency, integrity and accountability in the global international institutions and encourages a parliamentary process for effective ex ante and ex post scrutiny of eu positions in international bodies such as the g20 basel committee, the fsb, etc. there is a need to strengthen international cooperation, including through the strong involvement of the european parliament, and to achieve better coordination between international institutions. that is why i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the role of the eu in the framework of international financial, monetary and regulatory institutions and bodies. at global level, we need cooperation between international institutions and bodies, which must be transparent and broadly coordinated, and which must bring about greater simplification and avoid duplication of tasks. we need a stable financial system that will lead to economic growth and, ultimately, to new jobs. i support the call for a clearer definition of the competence of each organisation or body and the way they operate and are financed, including voluntary contributions, gifts and donations, in order to prevent vested interests and ensure the legality of decisions.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the role of the eu in the international financial, monetary and regulatory institutions and bodies, as the stability of the financial system, which is crucial for investment and growth due to the free flow of capital, depends on the ability to develop and enforce standards and rules of conduct at transnational level. the urgent need for the appropriate upgrades must not lead to a dispersion of responsibility to the detriment of democracy. in particular, national parliaments and the european parliament must not become mere 'public offices'. if an independent assessment of private and political interests is required, the dialogue between experts and elected members should be resumed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu role in the framework of international financial, monetary and regulatory institutions and bodies. the report states the importance of transparency for democracy, while, at the same time, taking into serious consideration the protecting of market-sensitive information. it equally stresses the need for enhancing international regulatory cooperation and improving policy coherence and coordination among the global institutions. the report particularly emphasises the crucial significance of the stability of the financial system and the common interests of the euro area.
in writing. ‒ the inconsistency of the eu's actions in the international financial, monetary and regulatory institutions and the delays in the implementation of legal acts agreed at international level are due to the fragmentation and diversity of the different organisations/bodies. i supported the report on the role of the eu in international bodies, as i believe that the union should rationalise its representation in multilateral organisations/bodies in order to increase transparency, integrity and accountability of participation in these bodies. it would also make sense to develop a european code of conduct to guide the conduct of eu representatives in international organisations/bodies.
in writing. ‒ meps supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on small-scale coastal fishing in regions dependent on fishing. we are aware that coastal fishing accounts for 80% of the european fleet and, together with shellfish farming, provides a high level of employment. this form of fishing has a wide-ranging impact on social heritage and cultural specificities and is a traditional form of economy or way of life in coastal and island regions, a source of livelihood and job preservation. support for the resolution is thus a kick-off to growth and development in this area, giving small-scale fisheries greater clout within the 12-nautical-mile coastal zone, which is the most environmentally sensitive part of eu waters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on innovation and diversification of small-scale coastal fisheries in fisheries-dependent regions. the current arrangements at european union level are not satisfactory and we need to improve the system. coastal and traditional fisheries should be based more on the socioeconomic characteristics and specificities of the different regions than on the size and power of the fishing vessels. i also support the call on the european commission to explore the possibilities for small-scale coastal fishing in island communities which traditionally depend on fishing for their own livelihood and which carry out fishing activities throughout the year.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on innovation and diversification of small-scale coastal fisheries in regions dependent on fisheries, because coastal fisheries are an extremely important form of fishing in eu countries. it is important mainly because it provides a high level of employment and is a socially and environmentally sustainable form of fishing. the classification and definition of coastal fisheries (coastal, traditional or artisanal, etc.) varies from one member state to another. for most coastal areas and islands, inshore fishing is a traditional form of fishing, a condition of life and an important source of livelihood. areas dependent on coastal fisheries need specific measures and support to grow and develop.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on innovation and diversification of small-scale coastal fishing in fisheries-dependent regions. coastal fishing is a socially and environmentally sustainable form of fishing of high importance to the eu countries, generating a high level of employment. for that reason the report calls for consideration of the possibility of small-scale coastal fishing in island communities which traditionally depend on fishing for their own livelihood. it equally calls for a gradual increase in the quotas allocated to non-industrial fisheries, in order to boost this socially and ecologically sustainable form of fishing.
in writing. ‒ coastal fishing is a very important type of fishing in the eu countries, as it provides a high level of employment in coastal, island and outermost regions and is generally a socially and environmentally sustainable form of fishing. in order to maintain and develop the potential of coastal fisheries, i supported the recommendations of the report on innovation and diversification of small-scale coastal fisheries in fisheries-dependent regions.
in writing. ‒ my colleagues and i supported the report on the external dimensions of the common fisheries policy, which has significant benefits and, if properly implemented, will improve the standards of fishing fleets of eu-registered vessels operating on the high seas. the eu needs to show a proper measure of political will to improve fisheries legislation under the iuu regulation. we must respect our commitment to promote the environmental and social sustainability of fisheries through all our policies affecting fisheries in developing countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on common rules for the implementation of the external dimension of the common fisheries policy, including fisheries agreements. in addition to being one of the world's most important fisheries actors, due to its historical presence and significant activities in all the world's oceans, the eu is also an important market for fishery products. i support the report because it stresses the importance of coordination between fisheries, environmental and trade policy and development cooperation. all aspects are very important and none should be neglected. the report is also clear on the promotion of environmentally, socially and economically sustainable fisheries in bilateral and other agreements between the eu and partners.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on common rules for the implementation of the external dimension of the common fisheries policy, including fisheries agreements. it is clear that the eu will best achieve its objective of promoting sustainable fisheries by using its influence at international level to improve standards of fisheries governance and transparency, thereby encouraging competition for the best rather than the worst fisheries. this is the best strategy to achieve the eu's objective of promoting sustainable fisheries. the eu's influence at international level is needed to improve standards of fisheries management and transparency and to boost the eu's competitiveness in this area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on common rules in respect of application of the external dimension of the cfp, including fisheries agreements. the eu is one of the world’s main fishing players, with a strong historical presence, as well as a major market for fishery products. the report emphasises the importance of ensuring consistency between fishery, environmental and trade policy and development cooperation. it equally insists on the importance of promoting ecosystem protection and maintaining sufficient levels of fish stocks. finally, it underlines the need for protection of local communities whose livelihoods depend mostly on fishing and activities related to the fishing industry.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposals in the report on common rules for the implementation of the external dimension of the common fisheries policy, including fisheries agreements, as i believe they will contribute to sustainable fisheries that provide mutual benefits to the eu economy and to third countries, including their local populations.
the terrorist attacks in brussels have shocked us once again. it's a despicable act, a worthless man. i offer my sincere condolences to all the victims, the injured and my sympathies to those affected. and not just with those in belgium, but with everyone in turkey, pakistan, iraq and elsewhere. terrorists, racists, and extremists spread their hatred through violence, and community relations are increasingly strained. the only way for europeans to find real solutions is to stand together against terrorism and hatred. regardless of religion, race, color, or position. more security will not only come from new and strengthened security measures, borders, walls, but also from tackling social issues at home and in third countries, fighting poverty, resolving conflicts - and from people fleeing terrorism. we have long pointed out that european countries have great difficulty in exchanging intelligence and criminal intelligence. greater security cooperation is therefore essential, both within europe and with third countries. but we must also ask ourselves the uncomfortable question: why are young europeans going to syria, iraq, why are they reaching for deadly weapons, why are they more comfortable with an ideology that advocates mass beheadings, slavery, murder? there is a very clear link between radicalisation and the hopelessness of young people, and that is something we have to fight against. and we need a strong, new push to promote interfaith dialogue around the world. (the president replied to the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
question asked by raising the blue card. madam president, given your attitude to pnr, would the adoption of this important act by the european parliament be a step towards a safer europe in the future?
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. in any case, the pnr we have today and which we are voting on tomorrow is an important step towards security, greater security in europe, but we must be very clear about all these measures in terms of proportionality, privacy and efficiency. now that we have a data protection package, i think that, combined, these measures are appropriate and we are on the right track to delivering what all citizens expect from us.
the panama papers affair is certainly getting a lot of attention these days, but, let's be honest, it's not a new thing. we've known about it for a long time. although we have already taken a great deal of action at european level and concluded many agreements with third countries, this is clearly still not enough. billions of euros are still slipping through the budget. this is money that we could spend on our schools, on our education, on our children, on employment, on new jobs. of course, tax evasion and the concealment of ill-gotten wealth are unacceptable. but have we even tried to look at the other side of this story? why are tax havens so friendly and attractive? perhaps we should ask ourselves how unfriendly our domestic tax systems are. and we're gonna have to do something about that, too.
i think the commission's actions are going in the right direction. we can say that we are finally moving from words to actions. we need more transparency and more data sharing. in this way we will also achieve a better tax environment for all, better tax systems. it is unacceptable that large multinationals should enrich themselves at the expense of small and medium-sized enterprises. everyone must pay taxes proportionate to their potential. but we have to be consistent. we must not allow the measures to be reversed in such a way that europe becomes less competitive. the big multinationals also create a lot of jobs. we must therefore also require member states not only to be transparent but to adapt their tax systems to be simple and competitive.
in writing. the european commission made a statement to the european parliament at its april plenary session on the planned measures in the field of public tax transparency. the panama papers case has once again confirmed that the desired globalization is written on the skin of financial capital, which has a virtual owner without responsibility. the case, which was uncovered by the international consortium of investigative journalists with the help of 11.5 million documents, exposes the unseen scale of tax fraud and money laundering. this is a clear indication that tax havens are a widely offered and created opportunity, which has been well exploited over the last half-century and will continue to be so in the future, provided that the competent institutions of the states and the international community do not lose their edge. the tax policies of the various countries are different, but they all have in common the desire to bring as many resources as possible into the public treasury, with tax revenues representing practically the bulk of the inflows. how successful they are in doing so and how they deal with the grey economy, tax evasion and fraud is another matter. we urgently need a thorough tax reform that will tackle the root causes of the problem decisively. the key to this is greater tax transparency of companies' activities and public reporting by country, where where companies operate and pay taxes is of particular importance.
thank you, chairman. i would very much like to say today that we have a good agreement with turkey, a working agreement with a legal basis, but i cannot say that. and while i'm beginning to see this as a rotten compromise, at this point, i don't see any other alternative. i want the agreement to work, but i want it to work in a way that respects the fundamental human rights of refugees. and not by conditioning our cooperation, blackmailing, that refugees are still coming to the greek islands, to hear that turkey is forcibly returning syrians to syria? the situation is shocking. there are almost three million refugees in turkey, most of them on the streets. how safe is this country for these people? we know the situation with freedom of the press, minority rights. the situation on the greek islands is also shocking, as the "hot spots" become closed camps. we must ensure that refugees have the opportunity to apply for asylum. where are all those experts we had? but it is also a fact that no matter how good the agreement with turkey is, it will not succeed unless the countries of the union start implementing resettlement and relocation programmes. the core of the problem is on our side. we could have strengthened legal and safe routes long ago, prevented the erection of fences, stopped people dying on europe's shores, the exploitation of women and children, human trafficking. we didn't get that. we need ambitious dublin reform, and i agree. it may be a historic moment, or rather a last chance to convince people that european policies can also be successful. (the president replied to the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. mr president, i agree with all those who insist today that european solidarity is not working. and i agree with all those who insist today that all the countries of the european union must take responsibility when it comes to burden-sharing. we know that the relocation and resettlement program is not working at the moment, that a number of countries in the european union are not taking responsibility at the moment. and until that happens, everything else is superfluous, all agreements are unnecessary and the european union is actually crashing into a very, very critical situation. i want everyone here, including you, to take moral responsibility.
question asked by raising the blue card. a respected colleague. i appreciate some of your colleagues in your group, who are analytical in their thinking, and i'd like to ask you to follow up on what you said in your last sentence. we are talking today about the agreement with turkey about many things. from the fact that it heralds a change in policy to the enlargement of europe and a variety of other issues. i would like to ask you, but don't you think that in this debate we should also address the causes of the crisis, the causes of this humanitarian catastrophe. we are not a humanitarian organization, we are politicians, we should honestly face who and why caused the disaster in the middle east.
on 17 december last year, this parliament adopted a resolution on the annual report on human rights and democracy and the european union's policy in this field. in chapter 78 of the resolution, we demanded respect for the fundamental rights of the sahrawi people and the release of political prisoners from moroccan prisons. we have been following with concern the hunger strike of young people who have been wrongfully sentenced to long prison terms by the moroccan military court in connection with the events in lajon. i call on the president of this parliament and on the commission to take account of this parliament's demands for the release of political prisoners and for respect for human rights in their contacts with the moroccan authorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund volvo trucks. the financial contribution from the egf of eur 1 793 710, representing 60% of the total cost, will be sufficient for the measures involving 500 of the 647 redundant workers. this is an area where most of the vacancies are tied to highly qualified workers and the dismissed workers have only a secondary education. we need measures for redundant workers to enable them to acquire specialised skills and thus compete more easily for jobs.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (application egf/2015/009 se/volvo trucks, sweden). the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows. the swedish authorities have provided all necessary assurances as regards the following: the access to and implementation of the proposed measures will respect the principles of equal treatment and non-discrimination, the requirements of national and eu legislation on collective redundancies have been respected, volvo trucks has continued its activities after the redundancies, has fulfilled its legal obligations in relation to redundant workers and has provided adequate care for them, the proposed measures will not receive financial support from other union funds or financial instruments and double funding will be avoided, the proposed measures will complement measures financed by the structural funds, the financial contribution from the egf will be in line with the union's procedural and substantive rules on state aid. sweden has informed the commission that the egf measures will be co-financed by the swedish government through the budget of the swedish public employment service (arbetsförmedlingen).
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which estimates that sweden is eligible for a financial contribution of eur 1 793 710 under the conditions laid down in the egf regulation. union financial assistance shall be intended for redundant workers with a lower level of education in order to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market and employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. i support the commission's proposal to use the amount of eur 380,000 to cover the commission's technical assistance. these are monitoring and data collection, information, knowledge base building, administrative and technical support and evaluation. i also support the report which welcomes the inclusion of the report in the electronic data exchange system as this will reduce the administrative burden on member states and simplify the use of the reports for evaluation purposes.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (application egf/2016/000 ta 2016 technical assistance at the initiative of the commission). the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows. on 22 february 2016, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf. it concerns an amount of eur 380.000 from the commission's technical assistance fund. the objective of the technical assistance is to finance monitoring, information, the establishment of a knowledge base interface and advice to member states on the use, follow-up and evaluation of the egf. in accordance with article 11 (1) of the egf regulation, 0,5% of the maximum annual amount of the fund (i.e. eur 828,060 in 2016) may be made available for technical assistance at the initiative of the commission each year.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution providing that, within the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is to be mobilised to provide the sum of eur 380,000 in commitment and payment appropriations for technical assistance to finance monitoring, information, the establishment of a knowledge base interface and the provision of advice to member states on the use, follow-up and evaluation of the egf.
in writing. ‒ last week, in the epp group's plenary session, meps supported a report on the proposal to amend the european union budget to provide emergency aid in the union. at a time when the european union is facing an emergency situation with massive influxes of refugees and migrants, many people are in urgent need of humanitarian assistance. as the capacities of most member states to respond to this emergency situation have already been largely exhausted, i believe that this measure was the right decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council position report on the draft amending budget of the european union no 1/2016 for the financial year 2016 new instrument for providing emergency assistance in the union. the european union is facing a massive influx of refugees and migrants, which has created an emergency and a humanitarian crisis. the european union has grown up on the basis of solidarity and must respond to the needs of the people on its territory. i support a new instrument to provide emergency assistance in the union of eur 300 million this year and eur 200 million over the next two years. i also support the creation of a more durable legal and budgetary framework for the use of humanitarian aid in the union when circumstances require it.
in writing. ‒ report on the council position on the draft amending budget no 1/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016 i supported the new instrument for providing emergency assistance in the union because the mass influx of refugees and migrants into europe has created an emergency situation in which a large number of people are in need of urgent humanitarian assistance that exceeds the organisational capacity of one or more member states. the capacities of most member states to respond to this emergency situation have already been exhausted and there has been no adequate instrument at union level to respond to the humanitarian needs of the people affected by the disasters. the commission estimates that eur 300 million will be needed for this new instrument in 2016 for the time being (eur 200 million in 2017 and 2018) but that this amount may increase further if immigration and refugee flows do not decrease.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft amending budget allocating emergency financial assistance to deal with the emergency situation caused by the refugee, humanitarian and security crisis in the union.
in writing. ‒ in addition to my support for the slovenian candidate for the court of auditors, i am pleased to note that the slovenian candidate received the highest support from meps of all the candidates. he has proven to be a competent and experienced candidate who will be able to handle this responsible job without any problems.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors has a great deal of responsibility in monitoring the use of european funds and assessing the added value of eu policies. candidates for the court of auditors must therefore demonstrate a high level of professional competence and complete independence. the committee on budgetary control has assessed the candidate's professional qualifications, in particular in the light of the requirements of article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and has approved the council's proposal to appoint mr samo jereb as a member of the court of auditors. only jereb has 20 years of experience as an auditor, first in the private sector and for the last 12 years at the court of auditors of the republic of slovenia (first as chief state auditor and then as deputy president of the court of auditors of the republic of slovenia). jereb is not a member of any political party. his areas of expertise include state aid rules, public service pricing, taxation, public debt and environmental audit. in his presentation to the committee on budgetary control, mr jereb demonstrated that his concrete and forward-looking ideas could make a significant contribution to improving cooperation between the european court of auditors and national supreme audit institutions. that's why i voted for his nomination.
in writing. ‒ i voted in good faith on the report on the appointment of sam jereb as a member of the court of auditors secret ballot. the candidate's professional qualifications have been assessed by the committee on budgetary control, in particular in the light of the requirements of article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. at its meeting of 15 march 2016, the committee on budgetary control, having heard the presentation of the council's candidate for member of the court of auditors, approved the council's proposal to appoint samo jereb as a member of the court of auditors and instructed its president to forward this decision to the council and the court of auditors, as well as to the other institutions of the european union and the audit authorities of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the nomination of samo jereb as a member of the court of auditors because there are no legal, political or personal reasons on the grounds of which an objection to his nomination would be founded.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors has a great deal of responsibility in monitoring the legality of the use of european funds and, more importantly, in assessing the effectiveness and long-term impact of european union policies. the audit committee has assessed the candidate's recommendations, in particular in the light of the requirements of article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and has approved the council's proposal to appoint mihails kozlovs as a member of the court of auditors. kozlovs is an independent, qualified and motivated professional with more than 15 years of in-depth experience in policy-making at national and eu level. his areas of expertise include the eu budget, public finance, public governance, institutional relations, development banking, diplomacy, as well as people management, change management and project management, with numerous contacts in the eu institutions at all levels. kozlovs headed the eu integration department at the latvian ministry of finance, worked as an adviser at the permanent representation of latvia to the eu and at the european bank for reconstruction and development. that's why i voted for his nomination.
in writing. ‒ i voted in good faith on the report on the appointment of mr mikhail kozlov as a member of the court of auditors secret ballot. the candidate's professional qualifications have been assessed by the committee on budgetary control, in particular in the light of the requirements of article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. at its meeting of 15 march 2016, the committee on budgetary control, having heard the presentation of the council's candidate for member of the court of auditors, approved the council's proposal to appoint mihails kozlovs as a member of the court of auditors and instructed its president to forward this decision to the council and to the court of auditors, as well as to the other institutions of the european union and the audit authorities of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the nomination of mihails kozlovs as a member of the court of auditors because there are no legal, political or personal reasons on the grounds of which an objection to his nomination would be founded.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, i have endorsed the candidacy of mr mikhail kozlov as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ given the crucial role of the european court of auditors in monitoring the implementation of the eu budget and in particular in assessing the added value of european union policies, it is crucial that its members are appropriately qualified and that there is no doubt about their independence and potential conflicts of interest. the committee on budgetary control has assessed the candidate's recommendations, in particular in the light of the requirements of article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and has approved the council's proposal to appoint mr jan gregorius as a member of the court of auditors. gregor worked at the czech ministry of finance, including as deputy minister for public budget, is a member of the board of directors of the european investment bank and the general health insurance company of the czech republic, and a member of the supervisory board of the czech export bank and the czech-moravian guarantee and development bank. the candidate shall have experience in auditing, budget planning and implementation and budgetary control. he was not appointed to the post of deputy minister politically or by the government, but worked as a civil servant. that is why i have supported his nomination as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in good faith on the report on the appointment of mr jan gregor as a member of the court of auditors secret ballot. the candidate's professional qualifications have been assessed by the committee on budgetary control, in particular in the light of the requirements of article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. at its meeting of 15 march 2016, the committee on budgetary control, having heard the presentation of the council's candidate for member of the court of auditors, approved the council's proposal to appoint mr jan gregor as a member of the court of auditors and instructed its president to forward this decision to the council and to the court of auditors, as well as to the other institutions of the european union and the audit authorities of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the nomination of jan gregor as a member of the court of auditors because there are no legal, political or personal reasons on the grounds of which an objection to his nomination would be founded.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, i have endorsed the candidacy of mr jan gregor as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in good faith on the report on the appointment of ladislav balk as a member of the court of auditors secret ballot. the candidate's professional qualifications have been assessed by the committee on budgetary control, in particular in the light of the requirements of article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. at its meeting of 15 march 2016, the committee on budgetary control, having heard the presentation of the council's candidate for member of the court of auditors, approved the council's proposal to appoint ladislav balko as a member of the court of auditors and instructed its president to forward this decision to the council and to the court of auditors, as well as to the other institutions of the european union and the audit authorities of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the nomination of ladislav balko as a member of the court of auditors because there are no legal, political or personal reasons on the grounds of which an objection to his nomination would be founded.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the members of the court of auditors shall be chosen from among persons who belong or have belonged to external audit bodies in their respective countries or who are specially qualified for this office. their independence must be beyond doubt. the committee on budgetary control assessed the recommendations of the nominee, in particular in the light of the requirements of article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, heard his presentation at its meeting on 15 march 2016 and, on that basis, decided not to approve the council's proposal to appoint janusz wojciechowski as a member of the court of auditors. wojciechowski is a lawyer by profession, a former judge, now a lawyer; he has been a member of the european parliament since 2004. between 1995 and 2001, he was the president of the polish supreme audit office (nik). the candidate is appropriately qualified, but there are doubts about his political independence which the candidate did not sufficiently explain in his presentation to the committee on budgetary control. in addition, his current role as vice-chair of the ep committee on agriculture could give rise to a conflict of interest. in view of the above and in accordance with the decision of the committee, i did not support the candidate in the vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in good faith on the report on the appointment of janusz wojciechowski as a member of the court of auditors secret ballot. the candidate's professional qualifications have been assessed by the committee on budgetary control, in particular in the light of the requirements of article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. at its meeting of 15 march 2016, the committee on budgetary control, having heard the presentation of the council's candidate for member of the court of auditors, approved the council's proposal to appoint janusz wojciechowski as a member of the court of auditors and instructed its president to forward this decision to the council and to the court of auditors, as well as to the other institutions of the european union and the audit authorities of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the nomination of janusz wojciechowski as a member of the court of auditors because there are no legal, political or personal reasons on the grounds of which an objection to his nomination would be founded.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's resolution, as amended, on the draft commission implementing regulation renewing the approval of the active substance glyphosate. as a fruit grower myself, i've been using glyphosate for 25 years as one of the most widely used herbicides in fruit and wine production. it is in the best interests of those of us who use these products to get to the truth about its side effects. in the report, we therefore proactively halved the period of approval from the proposed 15 years to 7 years. at the same time, we suggested that the commission should thoroughly investigate the health effects and, if certain studies suggesting carcinogenicity were found to have a scientific basis, take immediate action and withdraw the preparation from the market. given that the herbicide has been used for the last 40 years, the establishment of scientific facts on the consequences of its use should not be a problem. as there is currently no real substitute on the market for the herbicide, an immediate ban on its use would seriously harm european agriculture, while not affecting countries outside the eu, such as the us, which is by far the largest consumer of glyphosate, especially in the production of genetically modified organisms. i trust the maturity of the european commission to look into the matter and to verify all the facts and allegations circulating today and to take appropriate action if necessary.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the resolution proposing to renew the authorisation of glyphosate for another 7 years, because i put health first. since i got over my cancer, my motto has been "health first". the international agency for research on cancer has found a strong link between glyphosate and cancer, and there are other studies linking it to harmful effects on the human hormonal and nervous systems, and that's enough for me. i also supported amendments that contained more restrictions on the ways and places of use, greater controls on the sale of products and better monitoring of health and environmental impacts, and more education for users, and these were voted on. i expect the european commission to take them into account when preparing the amended proposal for the re-approval of glyphosate.
in writing. ‒ there is public debate on the conflicting scientific aspects of different assessments of glyphosate carcinogenicity and the endocrine disrupting effect of glyphosate. the international agency for research on cancer (iarc) has classified glyphosate as a substance that is "probably carcinogenic to humans". the most widely used herbicide in the world today is the systemic herbicide glyphosate. its use has increased dramatically (by a factor of 260) over the past 40 years. globally, 76% of glyphosate is used in agriculture, and in addition, in forestry, urban and horticultural applications. the european commission has proposed to renew the approval of glyphosate for a further 15 years. the motion for a resolution adopted by the envi committee calls on the commission to reconsider its proposal. glyphosate could seriously harm our health and could also endanger animals and plants, so it is important to avoid its unwarranted use in private and its use in or near public parks, playgrounds and gardens. in the case of already existing alternatives for weed suppression, the use of glyphosate should be strictly prohibited. the motion for a resolution did not express a complete rejection of the use of glyphosate and i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the draft commission implementing regulation renewing the approval of the active substance glyphosate in accordance with the regulation of the european parliament and of the council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market and amending the annex to the implementing regulation. the commission should withdraw the draft implementing regulation and submit a new draft, should not renew the approval of glyphosate and should set a clear deadline by which it will draw up a list of additives not approved for inclusion in plant protection products. this is necessary because of serious concerns that the herbicide glyphosate, which is widely used in agriculture, is carcinogenic and causes endocrine disruption.
in writing. ‒ objection under rule 106 of the rules of procedure: i supported the renewal of the approval of the active substance glyphosate, as did the large majority of the european parliament, which voted today on the controversial plant protection compromise on glyphosate. meps rejected the european commission's original proposal, which called for renewal at intervals of another 15 years without any essential conditions. meps also want to ban or at least restrict the use of glyphosate in the private sector and in public use, as well as all additives in formulations containing poe-tallowamine, which the commission intends to ban and withdraw from the market.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the objection pursuant to rule 106 concerning the renewal of the approval of the active substance glyphosate. there has been a quite controversial debate surrounding this objection. the mandatory renewal assessment on glyphosate was carried out by germany (bundesinstitut für risikobewertung ‘bfr’), which, on the basis of around 900 scientific publications, came to the conclusion that the available data does not give evidence for harmful effects in humans, animals or the environment. efsa peer-reviewed this assessment with all other member states and largely subscribed to their conclusions. however, the international agency for research on cancer (iarc) published their own assessment in an iarc monograph in july 2015. their evaluation, on the other hand, assesses the risk of glyphosate as being probably carcinogenic for humans. in conclusion, until there is no unanimous assessment on the harmfulness of glyphosate to humans, i believe that it is wise to stick to the findings of the german bfr, based on a vast amount of scientific evidence. the related legal provisions do mention that if new reliable evidence is found on the possible carcinogenicity of glyphosate, this assessment can be reverted and that is why in the meantime i decided to vote against the objection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the draft commission implementing regulation renewing the approval of the active substance glyphosate for 7 years instead of 15 years as proposed by the commission. the epp/ed also advocated many other safeguards to limit the possible harmful effects of this herbicide. i have advocated greater control of the health effects of glyphosate, more sustainable use, a restriction to professional use only, greater control of the sale of glyphosate in the member states and more education for users. the abrupt discontinuation of glyphosate would have a serious impact on european fruit and wine production, given the already heavy burden on european agriculture caused by the dairy and pig crisis.
in writing. ‒ we voted overwhelmingly in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the eu in a changing global environment, in a more connected, conflicted and complex world. it is in the interest of all members of parliament to ensure the safety of our citizens, to preserve our values and our social model. in the current situation facing the whole of europe, we must strengthen the strategic autonomy of the european union and its links with nato. at the same time, we must not forget foreign policy, where we must focus on working with global partners on common interests for our future.
in writing. ‒ it was time for the european parliament to give a strong message on how to further develop the eu project. the world needs an eu capable of delivering on global challenges and counterbalance the multipolar world. most importantly being a political project able to provide not only peace but also security to its citizens, create stable relations with its neighbours and engage citizens to actively participate in caring for the values of the eu.
in writing. ‒ europe is exposed to a number of complex and interrelated challenges and threats at a global level. the report addresses the european union's global strategy, which must be based on identifying and prioritising threats and challenges, defining responses to them and identifying the necessary means. this is a very general idea of a common defence policy, which would provide for some contributions from the eu budget and some budgetary criteria for defence, as in nato. the report does not contain many concrete hints as to specific policy areas and as to ways of linking the different foreign policy areas. the question of the integrated approach and its implementation remains unanswered. individual countries and regions are only partially mentioned. the following issues should be explored in depth: the international order (e.g. multilateral fora, relations with the un, au, asean, wto, etc.) and the role of the eu in this regard, the need to involve partners, the promotion of cooperation and the dissemination of universal norms and values. other important aspects to be taken into account are the position of human rights in the new global strategy, the importance of the criminal justice approach in the fight against terrorism and the need to develop a regional security structure similar to the csce. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on the eu in a changing global environment a more connected, conflicted and complex world. the european union today faces a number of interrelated challenges and threats. if we are to take all these challenges seriously, we need a united, decisive and effective response at european union level. i support the call for the european union to strengthen coherent and structured cooperation in defence research, industrial base and cyber defence through pooling and sharing and other cooperation projects in order to spend national defence budgets more efficiently.
in writing. ‒ report on the eu in a changing global environment i supported a more connected, conflicted and complex world, as many of the current and future challenges and threats facing the eu are complex and interconnected, emanating from state and non-state actors and originating both within and beyond our common borders. connecting the local, regional and global levels is necessary because we need strong political will and leadership for decisive joint action by the eu and its member states to respond proactively, collectively and effectively to these challenges, to safeguard the eu's values and social model and to ensure that the eu is an effective and more strategic actor and contributes to global security.
in writing. ‒ the eu's foreign and security policy is faced with a number of challenges posed by the refugee, humanitarian and security crises. i supported the report on the eu in a changing global environment a more connected, conflicted and complex world, because i agree with the need to protect european society and values, stabilise the union's wider neighbourhood and strengthen cooperation with citizens, civil society, industry and local and regional authorities in building a stronger framework for europe's security.
in writing. ‒ in supporting the motion for a resolution on the eu strategy for central asia, meps underlined the importance of the region to the eu. it is a region with great economic potential, energy richness, geostrategic and security features, with which good relations must be built. in order to achieve long-term sustainable results, we have agreed to re-establish the post of eu special representative for the strengthening of external relations in the region. it is in the eu's interest to strengthen democracy, human rights, the abolition of child and forced labour, gender equality, etc. all of this will require greater focus by the countries in the region.
in writing. ‒ i support the fact that we pay special attention to this part of the world. i would like to highlight that i truly welcome the re-establishment of the post of eu special representative for central asia, in order to ensure consistency of the external actions of the union in the region, which is necessary to avoid unnecessary pains of inconsistency.
in writing. ‒ the eu strategy for a new partnership with central asia (eu strategy for central asia) was adopted in 2007 in response to the growing importance of the region for eu security, stability, governance and energy diversity. the strategy sets the framework for the eu's relations with five countries: kazakhstan, kyrgyzstan, tajikistan, turkmenistan and uzbekistan. this is the third report by the european parliament on eu-central asia relations. the importance of this part of the world to the eu has increased in recent years, mainly because of the energy resources it contains. human rights and democracy play an important role in determining the eu's approach to these former soviet republics. the eu has strengthened and improved the structure of its relations with the five countries, as meetings of senior officials from europe and central asia have become frequent. the eu has also established regular bilateral dialogues on human rights and national water resources. however, the eu does not yet have sufficient visibility in central asia and should take steps to strengthen its efforts, focusing on those objectives and actions that address the following pressing challenges: human rights and the rule of law, water and energy, and regional security. security, development and environmental protection require close cooperation between the eu and each country, and cooperation between countries themselves. that is why i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation and review of the eu strategy for central asia. it is in the interest of the european union to strengthen good relations with all the countries of central asia on the basis of common values. we need more progress and better regional cooperation and integration between central asian countries through the exchange of experience and the transfer of standards by the european union. i support the report which stresses that the allocation of eu funds should be clearly based on initiatives and performance, taking into account achievements in different performance measures designed for all countries, and should also be dependent on measurable progress.
in writing. ‒ report on the eu in a changing global environment i supported a more connected, conflict-ridden and complex world, as respect for democracy, the rule of law and human rights is a basic condition for closer cooperation between the eu and the five central asian countries in areas of mutual interest, in the literal sense of the word 'partnership', as stated in the partnership and cooperation agreements. the overall situation of democracy and human rights in the region remains generally poor and worrying. the foreign affairs council in june 2015 re-committed to the cause of women's rights and concluded that increasing the influence of women in the region is essential to ensure long-term stability and good governance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on implementation and review of the eu-central asia strategy. the report suggests that european fund expenditures should be performance-based and dependent on the measurable progress in human rights, democratisation and corruption. it equally calls for a country-to-country approach and no compromise on human rights, the rule of law or corruption. the report also expresses concern regarding media freedom, the suppression of civil society and widespread human rights abuses including torture in prison in the region.
in writing. ‒ the eu has a strong strategic, political and economic interest in strengthening bilateral and multilateral relations with all central asian countries on the basis of shared values. believing that integration is important, particularly in the face of security threats and challenges, but also in the field of political, diplomatic and trade relations, i supported the report on the implementation and review of the eu strategy for central asia.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the resolution on the zika virus outbreak because it proposes measures that are outside its scope and directly violate the principle of subsidiarity for topics related to the family, health and education. it is unacceptable that a resolution that focuses on research to find out about the outbreak, carriers, care needs and vaccine development, preventive measures and public health measures in light of the identified health system deficiencies, is being used to introduce access to abortion in affected countries, in clear contradiction to the judgment of the eu court of justice in brüstle v greenpeace, which found that 'life begins after conception' and to the general declaration of human rights, article 3, which states that 'everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person', including unborn children. this is also recognized by the international covenant on civil and political rights and other international human rights instruments.
in writing. - the zika virus was discovered in 1947 in rhesus monkeys in the zika forest in uganda. in 2007, the virus was first recorded outside known endemic boundaries (epidemic on the island of yap in the federated states of micronesia). in 2015, a major outbreak of the virus in brazil (especially in the northeast) was associated with an unusual number of babies born with microencephaly. now the zika virus, transmitted by mosquito bites, is becoming more widespread. 'introduced' cases of zika virus infection have also occurred in various european countries. a case of microencephaly was reported in a pregnant woman from slovenia who contracted a virus with symptoms similar to zika virus during a stay in brazil. the european commission has therefore allocated eur 10 million for research into the virus. the report states that the results of these studies should be free of intellectual property rights and that patients should be able to afford the products thus developed. the potential link between the larvicide pyriproxyfen and microencephalopathy needs further investigation. in addition, there is a need to ensure reproductive health services and rights for women and girls and to address social issues faced by families with children born with microencephaly. that is why i supported the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the oral question on the zika outbreak. the resolution has some good initiatives, such as the need to establish a communication plan at the most appropriate levels to raise public awareness and encourage appropriate action to prevent mosquito bites. but there are also some points in the resolution that i cannot support. these are mainly points relating to the prevention and termination of pregnancy, sexual and reproductive health and contraception, which in my view do not fall within the resolution on the zika outbreak.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motions for resolutions on the zika outbreak. on 1 february 2016, the world health organisation declared a public health emergency of global concern due to the outbreak of the zika virus. zika virus is an increasingly common mosquito-borne virus first discovered in 1947 in rhesus monkeys in the zika forest in uganda as part of the yellow fever control network. outbreaks of the zika virus have been sporadically recorded in two european regions, martinique and french guiana, and in africa, the americas, asia and the pacific, and cases of infection have also been detected in europe, in particular in the overseas territories of guadeloupe and saint-martin. according to the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc), the majority of infections are still asymptomatic (approximately 80%).
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the zika virus outbreak, which calls, inter alia, on the commission to draw up an action plan to prevent the spread of the virus in europe and to provide assistance to member states and third countries in combating this epidemic in the regions where the outbreak is most severe.
in writing. ‒ in supporting the resolution on the situation in poland, i voted for respect for the fundamental rights of the rule of law, human rights and the values and principles enshrined in the eu treaties and international instruments. the european union must respect the equality of the member states and their national identities, in accordance with the law. it seems to me that we should be informed about the current problems of the justice systems, since they are the only ones that are essential for the functioning of the rule of law and the guarantee of the fundamental rights and freedoms of the citizens of each member state.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the situation in poland, which was also proposed by the political group of the european people's party. poland is a stable member of the european union and it is therefore essential to ensure full respect for common european values. poland must not be marginalised and excluded from important debates on migration, terrorism, the internal market, energy policy and foreign policy issues. we need poland as a strong, stable and credible partner. i believe that the resolution is balanced and based on facts only, while at the same time calling on the polish government to reassess some of its actions that may be contrary to eu values.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motions for resolutions on the situation in poland, as respect for the rule of law, democracy, human rights, fundamental freedoms and the values and principles enshrined in the eu treaties and international human rights instruments must be an obligation for the union and its member states to respect.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's resolution on the situation in poland, which calls for respect for the rule of law, democracy and respect for human rights as set out in article 2 teu and the polish constitution.
i thank the chair for her speech and all those who have contributed to the report. i welcome the directive which improves the exchange of information and cooperation between police and other criminal justice authorities within the european union, interpol and also countries outside the european union, which will also improve the efficiency of prosecution of crimes. recent terrorist attacks have revealed the dire consequences of poor cooperation and the international nature of crime and terrorism. of course, it is necessary to ensure that only relevant and necessary data are exchanged. the protection of data, in particular victims and witnesses, which is guaranteed by the directive, is therefore necessary. today's society is characterised by the extraordinary development of information technology, which represents a great advance, but also a greater threat to the individual, which is most evident through the intrusion into the private sphere of the individual. privacy is a fundamental human right, and we must therefore use the utmost care and sensitivity when processing personal data.
i am particularly pleased that today we have been able to adopt a package of measures to better protect and store the personal data of europeans. it is one of the most modern and advanced models for protecting citizens' fundamental rights. better data protection is a necessary safeguard before we establish a european air passenger data register. the negotiations were long and arduous. frankly, it was wrong for some to use this to play dirty games at the expense of the fight against terrorism. yes, pnr can help in the fight against terrorism, but it's pretty irresponsible to try to present it as the only tool. better cooperation between the judicial authorities of the member states of the union is essential. that's not gonna work today. we must realize that the pnr is not a magic wand to stop terrorists and criminals. all the data we've been able to collect on airline passengers so far hasn't helped prevent the recent terrorist attacks in france or belgium. so again, sharing of criminal intelligence is essential, cooperation is essential. without it, no pnr will be successful. a good year ago, we referred the agreement on the exchange of air passenger data between the union and canada to the court of justice, which has not yet delivered an opinion. i'm worried about whether this one will survive the judicial sieve. have the arguments in the data retention judgment been duly taken into account? i have similar concerns about the proposal on the table. and i regret that despite numerous warnings, we have failed to introduce into the text a provision on the mandatory exchange of information on known threats. this information will continue to be shared on a voluntary basis by the states. the information entered by the passenger himself when booking an air ticket is not reliable. and the question is, can we really stop the terrorist threat? (the president replied to the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. thank you, mr jakovčić, i agree that it would make sense to harmonise the existing pnr databases, and this is precisely the problem today, that most national countries, national airports actually already have some databases of data records in place, and if we have candidate countries where we know what cooperation is like, ... (due to interpretation problems the mep continued in english) i perfectly agree with our croatian colleague that it is good to have a harmonised system when it comes to pnr, also considering accession not the croatian accession, but for the other countries of the western balkans where we know in particular how bad the situation is concerning cooperation between the police, the judiciary, agencies and information and secret services.
congratulations to mr kirkhopp, his political group and mine for an achievement that seemed never to come. since 2003, we have stressed the urgent need to adopt this act, which would allow the use of data from the air passenger data record. many years passed, many terrorist atrocities took place, many innocent people died before the political part of the country adjusted its political principles and interests to the real facts. once the pnr is adopted, the lives of our citizens will be safer, as security and intelligence services will finally have access to the comprehensive passenger data that only airlines have had so far. the security authorities will be able to use algorithms based on travel patterns, combined with data on credit card usage, addresses and criminal records of passengers, etc., to link this information into a consistent analysis of the situation and, on this basis, to adopt a security risk assessment. this will prevent a number of planned terrorist attacks. in addition, the new approach will bring to the fore individuals who have not yet been linked to more serious forms of crime or terrorism, but are nevertheless part of it. the adoption of pnrs could also be the basis for a wider mandatory exchange of security intelligence in the european union, following the example of the united states.
blue-card question.– dear colleague, you said that this discussion on pnr is ideologically poisoned. i object to that expression. if you are saying this, i would like you to have some more arguments rather than simply promising that there will be more and better security. you know as well as i do that in cases where we know about terrorist attacks, no pnr provision would have prevented these attacks. so i think it is wrong to use the word ‘ideological’ for those who want more freedom and more transparency.
i support the directive on the use of passenger name record data for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and serious crime. i regret that we have not been able to reach consensus with all political groups in the past, as the pnr is an important tool in the fight against terrorism. although the fight against terrorism is primarily a member state responsibility, i am in favour of a common approach at european union level. we need to strengthen the security of our citizens and defend the fundamental values of freedom, democracy and human rights, and therefore we need swift, decisive and effective action. in doing so, of course, we must respect international law and treat private data with the utmost care and sensitivity.
i would like to congratulate mr fleckenstein on a report which is very well balanced and well written. she also thanked commissioner hahn for his close monitoring of the situation in kosovo. those of us who know kosovo and have followed it in the past can safely acknowledge that kosovo has made very great progress in transforming itself from one of the most closed communist states to a state with a relatively fast turnaround, with a turnaround towards parliamentary democracy and respect for european values. i also agree with those who point out the great problems that still exist in albania, particularly in the area of corruption, including organised crime, and it is right that such things should be tackled through such reports and also through the recommendations of the european commission on the road to the european union. but it is also very important to enable albania to develop economically, so that young albanians do not look for prospects everywhere in europe, but find them at home.
i would first like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and add what has already been said by the majority. albania has gone through a difficult period in its history and in a relatively short period of time, in the last 15 to 20 years, has made significant progress. so albania has made absolutely significant progress in a number of areas in recent years, as is acknowledged and written in the report we will adopt tomorrow, and the commission has also prepared some encouraging words in its report for the achievements made by albania in recent years. but of course there are still many issues to be resolved, many before me have already pointed to corruption, the justice system, organised crime, but of course it is also the duty of the european parliament and the commission to help them in this, to offer them a hand of cooperation and of course to recognise albania as an important regional partner, because without albania and without some other neighbouring countries there will be no stability and peace in the region. in particular, this will be important in this cooperation with the european union in managing the river of refugees that has not yet been completed.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. thank you for your speech, and first of all, of course, thank you to the rapporteur, who has of course tried to reconcile these different opinions, some of which we could agree with, some of which we could not. bosnia was, is and will be a very tough nut to crack in the future of the european union. and it's clear that she's going to have to deal with her biggest problems on her own. here, of course, the european union and also the european parliament can come to the rescue, twenty years after daytona, we were talking about whether it is time to think about how to move forward, whether the existing situation and the status quo is the only thing that can bring bosnia a step forward, also in terms of greater economic development, less unemployment, which seriously threatens the stay in bosnia, and also the brain drain, many young people are looking for work elsewhere, outside of bosnia and herzegovina, even in groups that are not the most, i will say, positive. it is therefore, of course, the duty of both the european commission and the european parliament to try to find a way to bosnia, also through politics, to actually solve the key issues currently plaguing bosnia and herzegovina. it is clear that there are also some signs in this resolution that can be positive, and we ourselves of course also miss the sejdić and finci judgment, which we consider to be very important, which is actually based on the position of the european court of human rights and means that bosnia must assume the duty of solving the border issue and recognize equality also to those who do not belong to these so-called three entities. (the spokesman replied to the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. mr javkovčić, thank you for this question. of course, the situation in bosnia is also a major security challenge for europe, not only because of the internal situation, but also because of the security situation in the region and the so-called refugee and migrant crisis. i therefore think that we must do everything we can to help bosnia in this respect and that our competent authorities should also cooperate in the exchange of information in order to avoid any unpreparedness for events that may follow in the future. and we are not talking about a month, we are talking about six months ahead, so that what happened in europe does not happen to us because of our unpreparedness and lack of exchange of information - including security services - in the last few months.
congratulations to commissioner hahn and rapporteur predi on a job well done. there are two things i particularly appreciate about this report. firstly, it is the first more favourable commission report on bosnia and herzegovina, and secondly, bosnia and herzegovina's application for membership of the european union expresses a clear political ambition of this european country. i see progress on the coordination mechanism for european union-related issues as the next important development and expect final harmonisation by the entity to follow soon, so that implementation can follow. this is necessary for the validity of the membership application. i therefore welcome the progress made by bosnia and herzegovina and wish it a successful internal political coordination that can boost its accession process.
first of all, i would like to congratulate mr preda and commissioner hahn on the significant progress made in bosnia and herzegovina. on the one hand, i congratulate bosnia and herzegovina on its application to join the european union, which clearly demonstrates its pro-european orientation, and on the other hand, i look forward to the european union's role in helping bosnia and herzegovina to become a functioning state, a state in which the three nations - given their complex political systems - will successfully start to talk to each other. we need strong economic development, but on the other hand we also need to stop the growth of radicalism, of extremism, which has been in bosnia and herzegovina in the last year, because in a country as poor as this, where there was a lot of discontent, we also have the largest number of isis fighters per capita. we are also fighting against this by bringing bosnia and herzegovina closer to the european union.
question asked by raising the blue card. mr president, you have raised a number of issues which are certainly of interest to the people i represent in slovenia. i would also like to know if you share my view that, in view of the increasing number of elderly people who are poor, the commission should adopt a strategy, a plan, in a short time, which takes account of the demographic changes in europe and the increasing number of elderly people without resources.
in writing. when we talk about energy poverty, we must be aware that it is closely linked to general poverty. i believe that our goal, set in the europe 2020 strategy, is becoming increasingly unattainable. this means that we need to recommit to the objectives we have already set and try to reduce the number of households affected by energy poverty. we need to encourage and monitor the targeted use of the european structural and investment funds in the member states and ensure that stronger links are established between the market and sustainable energy investments. i also think we should increase investment in renewable energy research. i would like to highlight the poverty of women. in the eu, there are 12 million more poor women than poor men, putting children at greater risk of poverty and social exclusion, especially in single-parent families. i therefore welcome the proposal of the femm committee to include a gender pillar in the european semester. i believe that it would provide for more ambitious action to tackle energy poverty, which disproportionately affects single women, single-parent households and female-headed households.
in writing. ‒ meps supported the draft legislative resolution on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, drawn up by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. with the amount of data processed on a daily basis and at multiple levels, the security of individuals is important and we need to work actively to protect their privacy.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of the pnr package and the use of private data. i am glad that we have finally adopted the legislative package, albeit in a less ambitious form than our political group had wanted from the start. there has been far too much waiting and political calculation on this important issue by certain political groups, who have emphasised aspects of privacy restriction. they've blocked progress on the exchange of information that is vital to maintaining the safety of our citizens. now we can finally enter the phase of interinstitutional negotiations and implementation. we must respond to the security challenges of our time with legislation that ensures the security of our citizens. for the sake of security, i'm willing to risk a little privacy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data. we need a strong and coherent data protection framework in the european union, which we will implement consistently. only in this way will we strengthen the confidence of our citizens, which has been at a low level in recent years. we must be extremely careful and sensitive when processing personal data, as privacy is a fundamental human right.
in writing. ‒ if i were to vote on the recommendation for a second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing directive 95/46/ec (general data protection regulation), i would support it. having regard to the reasoned opinions submitted by the belgian chamber of representatives, the german bundestag, the french senate, the italian chamber of deputies and the swedish parliament, in the context of the protocol (no 2) on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, in which they claim that the draft legislative proposal does not comply with the principle of subsidiarity,
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data. the field of processing of personal data should also be regulated with regard to the right to privacy.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of the pnr package and the use of private data. i am glad that we have finally adopted the legislative package, albeit in a less ambitious form than our political group had wanted from the start. there has been far too much waiting and political calculation on this important issue by certain political groups, who have emphasised aspects of privacy restriction. they've blocked progress on the exchange of information that is vital to maintaining the safety of our citizens. now we can finally enter the phase of interinstitutional negotiations and implementation. we must respond to the security challenges of our time with legislation that ensures the security of our citizens. for the sake of security, i'm willing to risk a little privacy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a directive which improves the exchange of information and cooperation between police and other criminal justice authorities within the european union, with interpol and also with non-eu countries, which will also improve the efficiency of prosecution of crime. recent terrorist attacks have revealed the dire consequences of poor cooperation and the international nature of crime and terrorism. of course, it is necessary to ensure that only relevant and necessary data are exchanged. the protection of data, in particular victims and witnesses, which is guaranteed by the directive, is therefore necessary. today's society is characterised by the extraordinary development of information technology, which represents a great advance, but also a growing threat to the individual, which is most evident in the way in which it interferes with the private sphere of the individual. privacy is a fundamental human right, and we must therefore use the utmost care and sensitivity when processing personal data.
in writing. ‒ if i were to vote on the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties, and on the free movement of such data, and repealing council framework decision 2008/977/jha, i would support it. taking into account the council's position at first reading (05418/1/2016 c8 0139/2016), the commission's opinion (com ((2016) 0213)), and article 294 (7) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the processing of personal data for the purposes of crime prevention is one of the key preventive measures and is of great importance for the security of eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ i supported the legislative resolution on the adoption of a new directive on the processing of personal data for the purposes of preventing crime. the requirements of law enforcement authorities to use personal data to fight crime including the fight against terrorism must be placed in a legal framework that protects eu citizens and prevents any unauthorised disclosure of or access to personal data.
in writing. ‒ last week, in plenary, the epp members overwhelmingly supported the european parliament's draft legislative resolution on the use of passenger name record data for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist and serious crime. we cannot fight the terrorism we face in europe today with military force or by strengthening physical security. intelligence services and investigative agencies across europe must play their part in addition to the relevant migration policy. the adoption of the pnr legislative package will enable the authorities to access data of vital importance for the fight against terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of the pnr package and the use of private data. i am glad that we have finally adopted the legislative package, albeit in a less ambitious form than our political group had wanted from the start. there has been far too much waiting and political calculation on this important issue by certain political groups, who have emphasised aspects of privacy restriction. they've blocked progress on the exchange of information that is vital to maintaining the safety of our citizens. now we can finally enter the phase of interinstitutional negotiations and implementation. we must respond to the security challenges of our time with legislation that ensures the security of our citizens. for the sake of security, i'm willing to risk a little privacy.
in writing. ‒ the eu pnr (passenger name record) directive, as agreed in the trilogues, would oblige airlines to hand over data on their passengers to eu member states to help law enforcement in the fight against terrorism and serious crime. this would require the systematic collection, use and storage of pnr data on air passengers, including for intra-eu flights. the pnr data would thus be stored in a disguised form for five years. this directive is in the legislative process following the recent terrorist attacks and has dangerous provisions regarding the mass surveillance of all passengers in the eu. i agree that targeted control measures should be introduced in the context of an efficient exchange of information between member states, but i think that this can be achieved by allocating the funds proposed for this directive to more targeted and effective measures for the activities of local police, joint investigation teams or greater coordination of europol. this directive will address profiling at airports which could lead to the stigmatisation of citizens on the basis of their name, origin or religion. i am against the current text of the directive because it is not necessary and the proposed system is not proportionate, but i also have concerns about data retention and the inclusion of intra-eu flights in the scope of the directive. that is why i voted against the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the directive on the use of passenger name record data for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and serious crime. i regret that we have not been able to reach consensus with other political groups in the past, as the pnr is an important tool in the fight against terrorism. although the fight against terrorism is primarily a member state responsibility, i am in favour of a common approach at european union level. we need to strengthen the security of our citizens and defend the fundamental values of freedom, democracy and human rights, and therefore we need swift, decisive and effective action. of course, this requires respect for international law and the utmost care and sensitivity in the handling of personal data.
in writing. ‒ if i had voted, i would have supported the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the use of passenger name record data for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and serious crime, as criminal and terrorist activities have been constantly evolving in recent years. they have become bolder and more complex and have become increasingly international in nature. the data show that the enormous cost of crime is driving more citizens to want stronger action at eu level against organised crime and terrorism. therefore, under the stockholm programme, the commission was invited to submit a proposal for the use of pnr data for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorism and serious crime.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on eu pnr data, because i do not believe that the additional measures envisaged in the proposal for a new commission directive would have a significant impact in the fight against terrorism, while they would certainly have a negative impact on citizens’ privacy. furthermore, the strictly technical debate around the eu pnr report has been subject to excessive manipulation and politicisation. i remain of the opinion that the most successful way of fighting terrorism is to address its root causes.
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption of this act, which will allow the use of data from the air passenger data register. i believe that once the pnrs are adopted, the lives of our citizens will be safer, because security and intelligence services will finally have access to the full passenger data that only airlines have had so far. the security authorities will be able to use algorithms based on travel patterns, combined with data on credit card usage, addresses and criminal records of passengers, etc., to link this information into a consistent analysis of the situation and, on this basis, to adopt a security risk assessment. this could prevent a number of planned terrorist attacks. in addition, the new approach will bring to the fore individuals who have not yet been linked to more serious forms of crime or terrorism, but are nevertheless part of it.
in writing. ‒ trade secrets are information of value to the company (undisclosed know-how and business information) which is treated as confidential and therefore confers a competitive advantage on the company. until now, trade secrets have been protected in various eu member states by a combination of civil law, competition law and/or labour law. the commission published a proposal for a directive in november 2013 to harmonise the protection of trade secrets at eu level in order to promote cross-border trade within the internal market. the directive would thus, for the first time, introduce a uniform and harmonised legislation on the protection of trade secrets at eu level. however, only a minimum level of harmonisation is envisaged and differences between member states could indeed arise. furthermore, the definition of a trade secret is very broad. the exceptions for freedom of expression and information, freedom of the press/media and protection of whistleblowing activities are not sufficient. trade secrets would become the rule without a satisfactory guarantee to protect citizens who disclose information in the public interest. this directive provides companies with an excessive right to secrecy, and could also lead to abuses by non-profit-making companies across europe at the expense of the public's right to information. the directive also contains a lack of balance between fundamental freedoms, which is why i voted against the adoption of the directive.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of undisclosed know-how and business information (trade secrets) against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure. trade secrets constitute an important part of the intellectual capital of business entities in the economy and are often used to gain competitive advantage and to carry out research and development or innovation. this proposal will improve the competitiveness of the european economy through innovation and thus strengthen the eu's leading role in the global industrial market.
in writing. ‒ if i were to vote on the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of undisclosed know-how and business information (trade secrets) against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure, i would support it. businesses and non-commercial research institutions invest in the acquisition, development and practical application of expertise and information, which are the currency of the knowledge-based economy and provide a competitive advantage. these investments in the creation and use of intellectual capital are crucial for their competitiveness and innovation performance in the market and therefore for the return on investment, which is the main motivation for business r&d. it is appropriate to lay down rules at union level for the approximation of national legislative systems in order to ensure a sufficient and consistent level of compensation throughout the single market in cases of unlawful acquisition, use or disclosure of a trade secret. to that end, it is necessary to establish a uniform definition of a trade secret without restricting the content to be protected against unlawful appropriation. such a definition should be designed to cover business information, technological information and expertise where there is a legitimate interest in their confidentiality and a legitimate expectation that such confidentiality is maintained.
in writing. ‒ innovative companies are increasingly exposed to unfair practices aimed at the unlawful acquisition of trade secrets through theft, unauthorised copying, economic espionage or breach of confidentiality requirements originating in or outside the union. i therefore supported the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of undisclosed know-how and business information, as i believe that adequate protection of the confidentiality of business secrets should be ensured. trade secrets play an important role in generating profits and maintaining business competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed the report on the european parliament's statement of revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2017. as proposed by the secretary-general in his report, the 2017 budget will continue and strengthen the institution's policy of saving in all areas where possible without compromising the quality of the working environment of members and staff. four priority objectives are proposed: security and cybersecurity, the gradual abolition of the derogation for the irish language, which will become a full eu official language, ongoing measures to support members in the exercise of their mandate, and increasing the attractiveness of the european parliament to the public and visitors.
in writing. ‒ the 2017 budget will continue and strengthen the institution's policy of saving in all areas where possible, without compromising the quality of the working environment of members and staff. the total estimated level of expenditure for 2017 will be eur 1,900,873,000, which is 3,4% higher than in the 2016 budget. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of the republic of moldova in the union programme for the development of the european schools. the current political and security situation (terrorist attacks in europe) requires greater security and cybersecurity of parliament (+ 2,6% compared to the 2016 budget). as regards safety, the project envisages the renovation of entrances and the installation of bulletproof glass, and there is also a proposal to internalise the chauffeur service by creating more than 100 new contract jobs. the report highlights the following elements: budget transparency and accessibility, identification of various areas for savings, greener vehicle fleet and strengthening of green public procurement. that is why i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the statement of revenue and expenditure of the european parliament for the financial year 2017. the report also stresses, inter alia, that parliament must have sufficient resources to fulfil its basic function as a co-legislator and budgetary authority. this is also a fundamental task of parliament, which we must constantly strengthen. of course, in the present circumstances, we must use our resources conscientiously and efficiently. as we have had a major problem in recent years with citizens' trust in the institutions, i also support the budget being clearly published on the european parliament's website.
in writing. ‒ i would support the draft revenue and expenditure of the european parliament for the financial year 2017, if i were to vote, having regard to the draft revenue and expenditure prepared by the committee on budgets in accordance with rule 96 (2) of the rules of procedure. the secretary-general proposed four priority objectives for the 2017 budget: security and cybersecurity, the gradual abolition of the derogation for irish, ongoing measures to support members in the discharge of their mandate and increasing the attractiveness of parliament to the public and visitors. i myself regularly receive and support visitors and organised groups from slovenia, so this last item of priority is very important to me. but i'm putting the greatest emphasis on the first one, safety.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on parliament´s estimates of revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2017. the report outlines the expected monetary flow of the european parliament, analysing its revenues and expenditures for the coming year. there will be provisions aimed at achieving substantial savings and, in light of the recent terrorist attacks in brussels, provisions aimed at reinforcing security of the parliament’s premises, in order to guarantee the safety of members and all employees.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the statement of revenue and expenditure of the european parliament for the financial year 2017. parliament spends the funds on its basic legislative and budgetary functions. i believe that in the current economic and social context, the means must be used conscientiously, pragmatically and effectively.
in writing. ‒ i consider the report is able to convey the necessary ambition on how the eu and member states should continue to endeavour in relations with turkey. i positively assess the relations as more sincere and straight to the point, especially in mutually understanding what can be shared and what will remain for the political elites of the future. i think the report was also able to reflect the important role turkey is playing in the refugee crisis and correctly portray the distinction between the turkish state, as a country, with its citizens and its invaluable culture, and the government of turkey. in this sense, further negotiations and opening of chapters can keep on fostering the right frame for constructive dialogue and guidance.
in writing. ‒ the commission publishes annual progress reports on all eu enlargement candidate countries. accession negotiations with turkey were opened on 3 october 2005, marking the starting point of a long and open process. the eu and turkey today face common, major challenges, such as the fight against isis/daesh and the management of displaced syrians. the principles of the rule of law, in particular the separation of powers, freedom of expression and freedom of the media, human rights and democracy, are of paramount importance in the negotiation process. the report covers a wide range of topics: the state of eu-turkey relations, respect for the rule of law, democracy, human rights and fundamental freedoms, the kurdish peace process and the situation in south-eastern turkey, eu-turkey cooperation on the refugee/migration crisis, progress in the cyprus reunification talks. it is noted that there has been a backsliding in democratic principles such as freedom of expression and media under the erdoğan regime. the violence and intimidation during the parliamentary elections and the high level of corruption are criticised. turkey's participation in the global coalition to fight the islamic state is a positive. the eu's objective must be to ensure peace in turkey. that is why i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the report on turkey.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2015 report on turkey. turkey has a long way to go before it accepts the values of the european union. regardless of the refugee or migrant crisis and the deal we made with turkey, we cannot have any concessions for turkey. we must insist on demanding that the situation regarding freedom of the press and freedom of association be improved, since only these are seriously undermined. also problematic are the government's actions in the judiciary, the conflict with the kurds and the escalation of violence in the southeast. turkey needs to make substantial improvements in these areas and we must be persistent in this. no matter what.
in writing. ‒ the 2015 turkey report would support the eu's continued commitment to further enlargement as a key policy to promote peace, democracy, security and prosperity in europe. each candidate country will be assessed on its own merits. the principles of the rule of law, in particular the separation of powers, freedom of expression and freedom of the media, human rights and democracy, the fight against corruption and organised crime, good neighbourly relations, freedom of religion, freedom of assembly and peaceful protest, the rights of minorities and women, and the fight against discrimination against vulnerable groups are of paramount importance in the negotiation process.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2015 report on turkey. in light of recent developments in europe, this year the resolution calls on the commission and the council to reassess the whole strategy behind the accession process negotiations with ankara. i have always been a keen supporter of turkey’s european aspirations, but recent events in the country raise concern about the full respect of the rule of law and most importantly about freedom of the media and freedom of expression. additionally, i do share the opinion expressed in the text that turkey’s accession process should not be linked to the refugee crisis: the country should be judged on its own merits and its cooperation with the eu on urgent migration issues should remain a separate matter.
in writing. ‒ i supported the 2015 report on turkey. political cooperation between the eu and turkey on geopolitical challenges is intense. turkey is an important strategic partner of the eu and there is a need to promote a peaceful and fair political dialogue on key issues of common interest such as migration, the fight against terrorism, energy, the economy and trade. the findings are of concern, however, pointing to a slowdown in the implementation of democratic reforms, respect for the rule of law and human rights.
in writing. ‒ i supported the 2015 report on albania, as it is very balanced and also of high quality. those of us who know albania and have followed it in the past can safely admit that it has made very great progress and that it has been transformed relatively quickly from one of the most closed communist countries into a country with the right orientation, orientation towards parliamentary democracy and respect for european values. i also agree with those who point out the great problems that remain in albania, particularly in the area of corruption, organised crime, and it is right that such things should be tackled through such reports and through the recommendations of the european commission on the road to the european union. but it is very important that we enable albania to develop economically, so that young albanians do not look for prospects everywhere in europe, but find them at home.
in writing. ‒ i welcome albania’s progress concerning the reforms on key priorities, but at the same time i encourage the political parties to maintain the reform momentum and focus on advancing steadily on many fronts. the current state of the balkans needs stronger eu support for candidates individually, and also for the entire region, to avoid big asymmetries in the progress of different candidates. member states should build understanding about the risk of asymmetric situations.
in writing. ‒ albania was granted candidate status in june 2014. since then, albania has to address five key priorities: reform of the public administration, strengthening the judiciary, combating corruption and organised crime, and protecting human rights. the implementation of these will pave the way for the opening of eu accession negotiations. the report is well written, politically balanced and also forward-looking, which clearly promotes the prospect of eu membership for albania. albania is making steady progress on its path to eu accession. however, it must be recognised that, despite this, many challenges remain and need to be addressed swiftly and effectively, in particular in order to keep albania on this successful and focused path towards eu membership. i believe that reforms are urgently needed, especially in the area of the legal system, as it is essential that it is as independent as possible from any possible external influences. it is also necessary to highlight the problem of corruption and the fact that the existing mechanisms to prevent it are not effective. it is positive that the environmental aspect is also included in the text. the construction of hydroelectric power plants in the protected area of the vjosa river is in conflict with european environmental standards and laws. since i find the text of the resolution well balanced and well written, i have supported the resolution and voted for its adoption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2015 report on albania. albania has made progress in recent times and has become a reliable partner of the european union. if they want to make further progress, they must realize that this will only be possible with the cooperation of all political forces in the country. judicial reform is very important for strengthening the rule of law in the country. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of personal data. albania must gradually adopt eu values in all areas, a very important area being elections, which must be democratic, free and fair.
in writing. ‒ i would support the 2015 report on albania if i were to vote, as albania is making steady progress on its path to eu accession. all (potential) candidate countries are assessed on the basis of their achievements and the timetable for accession is determined on the basis of the quality of the reforms needed. the challenges remain and need to be addressed quickly and effectively in order to make further progress on the path to eu accession. continued progress, in particular in the areas of the rule of law, judicial reform, the fight against corruption and organised crime, public administration reform and fundamental rights, is essential to the reform process. albania needs to step up reform efforts in these areas and on other key priorities in order to launch accession negotiations and consolidate its transition to democracy. the eu has placed the rule of law at the heart of its enlargement process and, in addition, has stressed the need to strengthen economic governance and public administration in all western balkan countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2105 report on albania, as the country is looking to be on the right track towards eu membership. the planned ambitious judiciary reform will be of great help in the fight against corruption, which remains a cause of serious concern. albania must keep focusing on implementing reforms in a series of key areas such as the rule of law, fundamental rights, public administration and the fight against organised crime.
in writing. ‒ i supported the 2015 report on albania. i welcome albania's continued progress in the areas of the rule of law, judicial reform, the fight against corruption and organised crime, public administration reform and fundamental rights. it is important that albania remains a constructive partner in the region and proactive in regional cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the report on bosnia and herzegovina for 2015, drawn up by cristian dan preda on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs. i would like to congratulate bosnia and herzegovina on its application to join the european union and to express my support for this decision, as it clearly demonstrates its pro-european orientation. strong economic development is needed, but on the other hand, the rise of radicalism and extremism, which has been on the rise in bosnia and herzegovina over the last year, must be stopped. in a country as poor as this, where there's a lot of discontent, we also have the highest number of isis fighters per capita. we are also fighting against this with the accession of bosnia and herzegovina to the european union.
in writing. bosnia and herzegovina's application for membership of the european union expresses the clear ambition of this european country. this is the first favourable report from the european commission on bih. the country has made tangible progress with regard to the coordination mechanism for eu-related issues. now the implementation is crucial, which is necessary for the credibility of the membership application.
in writing. ‒ bih is a country facing many problems and problems: corruption, organised crime, lack of freedom of media and expression. high unemployment and poor economic situation in the country, which leads to a brain drain, as educated people do not get jobs and are thus forced to look for opportunities abroad. on the positive side, bih submitted a formal application for eu membership in february this year. i believe that despite the difficulties, with the encouragement and assistance of the eu, the situation in bih can be improved and corrected. but we can't let them down here. we can't let them down here. we can't let them down here. there are certain aspects of the text of the resolution which i am not satisfied with. what i find most problematic is the emphasis and call to strengthen the ethnic principle in a country that is already too divided and fragmented. no distinction should be made between the constituent peoples and other citizens of bih. this seems to me to be in contradiction with the sejdić-finci and zornić judgments adopted by the european court of human rights. i believe that the institutions of bih must take on the duty to address this issue, and in doing so, they must stand by them and be supported by the european institutions, which is certainly not possible if the ethnic approach is supported. as i consider the subject very problematic, i did not support the resolution and voted against its adoption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2015 report on bosnia and herzegovina. the text is balanced and reflects well the situation in the country, especially as regards the issue of reforms and the resolution of open issues on the way to the european union. over the past years, bosnia and herzegovina has already adopted some important legislative amendments and strategies, and reforms must continue if it is to make progress towards the eu. the main problem is youth unemployment, where bosnia and herzegovina needs to take more decisive steps. there are many challenges ahead for this country, but it's on the right track.
in writing. ‒ i would support the 2015 report on bosnia and herzegovina if i had voted. accession to the eu is an inclusive process requiring agreement on a reform agenda. the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina must be at the centre of institutional, economic and social reforms. the eu has adopted a new approach to bosnia and herzegovina to advance its eu path and address the outstanding social, economic and rule of law challenges, thus enabling the country to prepare for future membership. in accordance with that approach, the stabilisation and association agreement entered into force on 1 june 2015. an effective mechanism for the coordination of european affairs between the different levels of government is needed to ensure better interaction with the eu and to facilitate the coordination, implementation and enforcement of eu legislation, as well as to ensure that bosnia and herzegovina's eu membership application is granted. on 26 january 2016, the council of ministers of bosnia and herzegovina adopted a decision on the coordination system in the process of european integration in bosnia and herzegovina. progress in this area will enable it to make good use of eu funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2015 report on bosnia and herzegovina. the country submitted its formal application for eu membership on 15 february 2016 and the european parliament strongly backed its european aspirations with this resolution, in particular calling on the council to examine its membership application as early as possible. the authorities in bosnia and herzegovina will nevertheless have to continue constitutional, legal and political reforms, as rampant corruption and increased pressure on the judiciary by political players remain issues of serious concern.
in writing. ‒ i supported the 2015 report on bosnia and herzegovina. i am pleased that bosnia and herzegovina has applied for eu membership. i wish bih to continue its constitutional and political reforms successfully, to transform itself into a modern and efficient state.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the achievement of the poverty reduction target in the face of rising household costs. the report focuses on the impact of energy policy and consumer prices on poverty, particularly among disadvantaged groups. the report identifies priorities for finding the best possible solutions to the financial problems of households facing poverty and proposes specific measures to combat it.
in writing. ‒ the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion in the eu increased from 117 to 122.6 million between 2008 and 2013. 10% of eu citizens were in arrears on utility bills in 2015 and 12% of eu citizens were unable to adequately heat their homes in 2014. the europe 2020 poverty reduction targets will be difficult to achieve without changes in energy and social policies. the report makes a number of recommendations and also calls on the commission and the member states to adopt an integrated approach to combating poverty and social exclusion, linking economic, employment, energy transfer and social policies. they are also called upon to sign a moratorium on winter heating and to provide the necessary upfront investments to reduce the energy costs of poor households. the european minimum income framework and the organisation of a poverty reduction forum are encouraged. it is worrying that more than 50 million people across europe are now facing energy shortages, together with growing inequalities and dependence on energy consumption, which is why i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on the achievement of the poverty reduction target in the light of rising household costs. official data showing that poverty is increasing, which is also contrary to the eu's strategic goal of the europe 2020 strategy, is worrying and calls for swift and effective action. i supported the report because, among other things, it calls on the european commission and the member states to do their utmost to combat poverty and social exclusion and to adopt a comprehensive approach to combating its various forms. we must not hesitate to take action on poverty, but we must be proactive.
in writing. ‒ i would support the report on the achievement of the poverty reduction target in the light of rising household expenditure if i were to vote. the own-initiative report aims to build a bridge between social and energy policy in the european debate and to highlight that the eu is moving away from its 2020 poverty reduction target, while at the same time there are many untapped opportunities in the eu to reduce the higher costs of poor households by targeting existing renewable energy and energy efficiency projects at energy-scarce households. in order to achieve the eu's 2020 poverty reduction target and the energy efficiency, emissions and renewable energy targets, action by a number of actors is needed, using different instruments but in the same direction.
in writing. ‒ the report on the implementation of the poverty reduction target in the context of rising household costs, which i supported, finds that inadequate housing and insufficient heating have a detrimental impact on people's health, education and social and labour market inclusion, especially of the most vulnerable. poverty and social exclusion need to be tackled in an integrated way, through the cooperation of economic, employment, energy transfer and social policies, taking into account already established good practices.
in writing. ‒ i also supported the report on the private sector and development prepared by the development committee. the private sector provides about 90% of jobs in developing countries. it is therefore an important partner in the fight against poverty. by providing the necessary innovation in low-carbon solutions that use resources economically and sustainably, it will play an important role in the sustainable growth of the green economy in developing countries. the european commission places particular emphasis on strengthening local micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. it provides substantial grants for a wide range of activities and services and ensures that appropriate reforms are put in place to strengthen and develop the private sector.
in writing. ‒ the private sector accounts for 84% of gdp in developing countries and has the capacity to provide a sustainable basis for domestic resource mobilisation, which can lead to less dependence on other aid. the report concludes that private sector investment in developing countries, if properly managed, can contribute to the achievement of the united nations sustainable development goals. support is needed for the local private sector in developing countries, as micro, small and medium-sized enterprises may face much heavier regulatory burdens than in the eu and lack legal protection and property rights. the focus is refocused on the alignment and alignment of private sector strategy with the sustainable development goals and on the achievement of the goals of developing countries' own development strategy. the report contains several controversial paragraphs relating to public-private partnerships, covering education, agriculture and other areas, and the commission's role in supporting the private sector in developing countries. the fact that the private sector is conceived as an actor for development can also be controversial. for that reason, i did not support the report in plenary, but abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the private sector and development. the private sector already plays a very important role in addressing the consequences of the crisis, but it can play an even more important role in the future. appropriate regulation is essential to encourage private sector investment in developing countries. this will help to accelerate the achievement of the un sustainable development goals. nevertheless, the report clearly warned that oda must remain a key tool for eradicating all forms of poverty and meeting basic social needs in developing countries and cannot be replaced by private financing.
in writing. ‒ i would support the report on the private sector and development if i had voted. as we reassess our overseas commitments, we increasingly discuss the role of the private sector in development. despite many undisputed successes, developing countries are estimated to need usd 2.4 trillion/year more than is currently spent globally - a burden that taxpayers already burdened are unlikely to be willing to shoulder. although the partnership of private and public aid is incomplete, there is no major development project in the world that does not involve consultation and cooperation with private investors. the high-level group advising the united nations secretary-general ban ki-moon on the post-2015 development agenda consulted the ceos of 250 companies from 30 countries and concluded that corporate strategies need to integrate sustainability to seize market opportunities for sustainable growth.
in writing. ‒ the report on the private sector and development, which i supported, finds that the role of the public sector is essential to achieving the sdgs, as it creates as much as 90% of jobs. i agree with the recommendation that a legal framework and a long-term strategy should be created for measures that give a greater role to the private sector in developing countries.
the european investment bank plays an important role in the european financial and investment space. its mission is relatively clear, but there is sometimes a question whether it is being carried out as originally envisaged. we would like to draw attention to the issue of not just transparency but transparency on the one hand, and on the other hand, the setting of priorities and, of course, the criteria and criteria on the basis of which the bank decides which projects it will finance. but i think that this bank, together with other financial resources, can pose and represents a great resource for actually reawakening many issues, including economic issues in europe, especially here of course small and medium-sized enterprises, but also issues that are directly... only indirectly touched. i'm talking about environmental issues, social issues, and of course, those important things that then force people to leave their homes because of all those issues, and then they also represent, on the other hand, a social burden.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. thus, the error rate in the use of european development fund funds is also significantly higher than allowed in 2014. moreover, this is the third consecutive increase in recent years and the court of auditors once again states that the commission should have sufficient data to prevent and correct most errors, and thus this error rate could be reduced by as much as two percentage points and for the first time in the history of the discharge it would no longer be possible to talk about the error rate but could focus all attention on the area of performance evaluation of development projects. so the degree of error should not be our sole focus, and the correctness and legality should have been taken for granted long ago. the increasingly difficult situation, especially in developing countries, reminds us that we must go further and demand that projects contribute to the progress of the region and the country. the main principle for assessing the long-term results of these projects must be not only economic but also social, environmental and human rights results.
in writing. the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 shall give the reasons therefor and make recommendations in favour of granting discharge. it notes, inter alia, that the court of auditors considers that the joint undertaking's annual accounts for the year 2014 present fairly, in all material respects, its financial position as at 31 december 2014 and its results of operations and cash flows for the year then ended, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules.
in writing. in armed conflicts around the world, hospitals and schools are the most vulnerable targets. these cases are in flagrant violation of international humanitarian law. we should demand that all parties respect the right of people to health. ensure access to and quality of health services by parties to conflicts. i think they should also be more aware of the fact that they have to ensure that schooling is not disrupted. children, students, students have a right to it. they are our hope. i also ask myself what we have done as the eu, as part of the global village, to stop these despicable acts from happening.
i agree with the rapporteur, mrs kuneva. the statistics are very unfavourable. a lot of people, especially women, work in the home. but it's not just about the immigrant women. women who have been employed stay at home, often to take care of the family, to take care of aging parents, to take care of their children. because there are simply no other options: because day-care centers are too expensive, because nursing homes are overcrowded. but these women receive no pay for this responsible work, nor are they adequately protected by social security. that is unacceptable, of course. countries are already implementing certain measures. among them, my country, slovenia, has a well-regulated system. but we need systemic action. and i agree that we could do a lot with professionalism. it would be a further area that we are avoiding. we'd reduce the work to black ops. it's not just good for individuals and individuals, but for society as a whole.
a little more serious than my colleague before me... thank you so much. i'm not going to dwell on what my colleague just said because it seems completely out of place. i'll tell you something else. what a serious matter that there are actually not enough women in employment, especially in the ict sector. despite all the progress made, we are still witnessing a shortage of women in the sector. and the development of this sector, of course, offers more opportunities in the future. but to take advantage of these opportunities, we will also have to stimulate companies in some way, to give them an additional opportunity to employ women. i think smart employers themselves realize that gender balance in hiring is beneficial, not just to help people get better pay, but also to bring in more profit for themselves. i hope, of course, that the development of the ict sector will also bring about a balanced development in this area.
allow me to make three points. the march deal is more than obviously working. the agreement is problematic, but without it the external borders of the european union would certainly fall. the flow of refugees to greece and the european union has practically stopped. control of the external borders is restored and so on. second, we know the price. the european union must now act responsibly too, but it must be careful. turkey is indeed a partner of the european union at the moment, but that could change quickly. erdogan has already threatened to unleash a new wave of refugees into the european union if turkey does not get visa liberalisation by june. threats are not part of a relationship. and thirdly, macedonia. i call on the european union and the member states to provide more assistance to macedonia. if we do not stabilise the situation in this country, there is not only a new wave of migration along the western balkans route, but also a new balkan conflict of greater proportions. and we share responsibility for the destabilization of the region.
finally, we have this demanding package behind us and we have opportunities ahead of us that the monopoly providers did not know or did not want to exploit. opportunities for passengers, as they deserve good, affordable and tailored rail services. opportunities for both existing and new businesses to expand their operations. and opportunities for the environment and therefore for future generations with the possibility of greater use of more environmentally friendly transport. we could have all worked together to make these opportunities happen sooner, since the proposal was made over three years ago. despite the efforts of the european parliament, it has long been politically biased and has created uncertainty, rather than stability and clear rules for businesses to plan their activities.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol amending the aviation agreement on common air services between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. the purpose of the protocol is to enable the republic of croatia to become a contracting party to the common aviation area agreement between the european union, its member states and georgia and to provide for the necessary linguistic adaptations in this regard. i have no objection to that, because that is what international law requires.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-georgia airspace agreement (accession of croatia). the agreement with georgia as an aviation partner of the european union was the first comprehensive aviation agreement we signed with a country from the caucasus region. the agreement was concluded as part of the eu's external aviation policy developed by the commission. in accordance with the act of accession of the republic of croatia, croatia will accede to the agreements concluded or signed by the eu member states and the union with one or more third countries prior to its accession, by means of a protocol to those agreements.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol amending the common aviation area agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. it is a simple dossier, containing only technical aspects. the change in scope was due to the accession of croatia to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report as the purpose of the protocol is to enable the republic of croatia to become a contracting party to the common aviation area agreement between the european union, its member states and georgia and to provide the necessary language adaptations in this regard.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol amending the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and israel, of the other part, consequent on the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. the purpose of the protocol is to enable the republic of croatia to become a party to the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the government of the state of israel, of the other part.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement between the eu and israel (accession of croatia). after the accession of croatia to the european union, croatia accedes to all agreements signed by eu member states or by the european union before its accession. such an agreement is also the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement between the union and israel, which forms part of the eu's external aviation policy and represents an important achievement in the creation of a common airspace between the eu and its neighbouring countries.
in writing. ‒ i supported, on behalf of the union and its member states, the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol amending the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the government of the state of israel, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. the agreement with israel, a key aviation partner in the mediterranean, is a major achievement in the creation of a common airspace between the eu and its southern and eastern neighbours. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on 29 june 2013 and entered into force on 1 january 2013. the purpose of the protocol is to enable the republic of croatia to become a contracting party to the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the government of the state of israel, of the other part (article 1) and to provide for the necessary linguistic adaptations in this regard (article 2). the content of the agreement shall not be altered by the protocol.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report as the purpose of the protocol is to enable the republic of croatia to become a party to the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement between the european union and its member states and the government of the state of israel and to provide the necessary language adaptations in this regard.
in writing. ‒ meps supported the report on the council proposal on the accession of the republic of croatia to the convention of the treaty on european union on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations, which is a consequence of croatia's accession to the eu and thus imposes international law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the convention on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations (accession of croatia). the convention, signed before croatia's accession to the european union, reinforced the mutual assistance obligations agreed in advance. after accession, croatia also acceded to all agreements concluded before its accession. we help prevent and detect crime by working together with customs authorities.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a council recommendation on the accession of the republic of croatia to the convention of 18 december 1997 drawn up on the basis of article k.3 of the treaty on european union on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations. i didn't see any problems with this report. in voting, i took account of articles 3 (4), (5) and (6) of the act of accession of croatia, which provided for the council to consult parliament.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a council recommendation on the accession of the republic of croatia to the convention of 18 december 1997 drawn up on the basis of article k.3 of the treaty on european union on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations. i voted in accordance with articles 3 (4), 5 and 6 of the act of accession of croatia, having regard to the report of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (a8-0054/2016).
in writing. ‒ the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded the request of the polish inspector general for road traffic for the waiver of immunity in poland to mr bolesław g. piech, elected member of the european parliament, in respect of an offence under article 92 (a) of the offences act of 20 may 1971, read in conjunction with article 20 (1) of the polish road traffic act of 20 june 1997. the alleged infringement concerns exceeding the maximum speed limit in a populated area. as his breach is not linked to the mandate of a member of the european parliament, i supported the report on the request for waiver of the immunity of mr bolesław g. piech.
in writing. ‒ i voted to waive the immunity of mr bolesław g. piech because he was the subject of an investigation into an alleged offence committed before he became a member of the european parliament and because, according to the information available, there is no reason to believe that the judicial proceedings were initiated with the intention of causing political damage to the member.
in writing. ‒ eu integration and free movement between member states have led to an increasing number of mixed couples. this may involve problematic family matters, such as cross-border child protection issues involving the withdrawal of custody. this is a sensitive issue, since marital disputes often arise over the custody of children in the event of divorce. in view of the different european dimensions of this situation, and on the basis of article 81 (3) tfeu, certain provisions of civil law have been incorporated into the community legal order (e.g. the brussels iia regulation). parliament has received a large number of petitions on these issues. i can conclude from this that there is a serious problem with the implementation of the brussels iia regulation and, more generally, with mutual recognition and enforcement between member states, where there are limitations and shortcomings. the resolution stresses that the best interests of the child are always paramount in all decisions on child protection issues at all levels. it calls on member states that have not yet done so to accede to the 1993 hague convention in order to ensure equal standards and rights for all children. that is why i voted for the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a resolution on the protection of the best interests of the child in the eu on the basis of petitions addressed to the european parliament. children are a vulnerable group in our society, and we need transnational and cross-border mechanisms that take into account the specificities of cross-border conflicts. the number and content of petitions received by the committee on petitions also indicate a serious problem. i support the call for the council to report on specific measures implemented by member states to create synergies between the 28 national child protection systems.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motions for resolutions on the protection of the interests of the child in the eu on the basis of petitions addressed to the european parliament. in all decisions on childcare issues at all levels, the best interests of the child must always be a primary consideration.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the protection of the interests of the child in the eu, based on petitions addressed to the european parliament. increased mobility within the eu is leading to an increase in cross-border child protection issues involving the removal of guardianship. in the context of the forthcoming revision of the brussels iia regulation, a discussion of the shortcomings of the current legal regime is necessary to fully protect the legal interest of the child and safeguard its interests in such matters.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request to consult the european economic and social committee on the establishment of a european pillar of social rights. these are very important topics and it is right that experts in the field should be consulted on them. any committee may request the european economic and social committee to be consulted on matters of a general nature or on specific points.
in writing. ‒ parliament is a consistent supporter of greater integration of the european railway area, which it considers to be a sustainable means of transport that contributes to job creation and growth. the european railway agency will evolve from a mere consultative body into an agency with full powers for approval and certification. its work with national non-state actors will be conducted under an individual cooperation agreement. the easa structure will serve as the lead partner during the negotiations. in the event of difficulties, the appeals board will be competent at national and european level to deal with them and will also give final decisions. the role of the social partners in eu law-making has been strengthened at the request of the ep. for the reasons stated above, i supported the report and voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of a european parliament regulation on the european union agency for railways (era). the european railway agency will have the power to issue safety certificates to railway undertakings operating in more than one member state. the aim will not be primarily to speed up administrative procedures and reduce administrative costs, but to maintain the current high level of security and to prevent covert discrimination.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the recommendations for a second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european union agency for railways and repealing regulation (ec) no 881/2004, as i consider that it is not constructively prepared. the three previous 'railway packages' have already brought about significant changes to make european railways more competitive and interoperable, while maintaining a high level of safety. the sector still faces barriers to competition, discrimination and a lack of a liberalised, dynamic and business-friendly environment. there are too many different national rules with procedures and standards that are not transparent enough.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european union agency for railways and repealing regulation (ec) no 881/2004. the commission is proposing a fourth railway package to improve the functioning and competitiveness of the railway sector and to improve the quality and efficiency of rail services. the objective of this pillar is to improve the technical compatibility of infrastructure, rolling stock, signalling and other parts of the railway system, as well as to simplify the authorisation procedures for rolling stock used on the european rail network.
in writing. ‒ instead of going through 26 different national approval procedures, locomotives and wagons can now be approved through the european railway agency or through the member states (for the area of use indicated in the application). this is an important step forward as it reduces the cost and time of transferring trains to the track, especially compared to other modes of transport. a european vehicle register will be created and will link existing national registers. this will increase transparency for the rail sector. that is why i voted for the report and supported it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the interoperability of the rail system within the european union. the regulation on the european railway agency is the technical part of the fourth railway package, which aims to amend the existing legislation and the remaining administrative and technical obstacles. the 2004 revision of the directive focuses on removing existing administrative and technical barriers. the greatest benefits of improved interoperability of the rail system in the european union will be gained by citizens.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the interoperability of the rail system within the european union (recast). there are two files. i agree with the coordinator, who has done a very important job, which i took into account in the vote. this is a very sensitive issue, as intermobility is of key importance for the eu as a whole. the fourth railway package contains six proposals, three technical and three political. the reporters had a lot of work to do, but despite their differences, they were able to reach a consensus. the importance of the package is crucial to the european economy, not just in transport.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the interoperability of the rail system within the european union (recast). over the last decade, major changes have gradually taken place in the railway market with the introduction of three railway legislative packages aimed at opening up national markets and providing more competitive and interoperable railways at eu level. europe will move closer to the creation of a single european railway area with the system introduced by the new directive. it will reduce administrative costs and speed up procedures, while maintaining the current high level of security.
in writing. ‒ currently, more than 11,000 national regulations hinder the provision of crossborder services. in order to establish a single market for rail transport services, it is necessary to establish a common regulatory framework to ensure safety in rail transport. in the future, there will be harmonisation and national rules will be harmonised, while the different rules will be very limited. instead of having to go through 26 different national safety certification procedures, the company will be able to apply for a safety certificate valid in several member states at the same time (single european safety certificate). the european railway agency will develop an event reporting tool to enable the sharing of information on potential safety risks between companies and across borders. i therefore supported the report and voted for its adoption in plenary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on railway safety, in particular to establish a framework for harmonising the content of safety rules. this is necessary to improve the safety culture and incident reporting in railway traffic and by infrastructure managers. this will motivate staff to report incidents under confidential conditions, thereby increasing the safety, interoperability and reliability of the european rail network.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on railway safety (recast). the eu railway safety directive is a major step forward towards establishing a common regulatory framework for railway safety. the directive established a framework for harmonising the content of safety rules, the award of safety certificates to railway undertakings, the tasks and roles of safety authorities and accident investigation in order to discourage member states from further developing safety rules and standards for their national lines on the basis of national technical and operational concepts. the development and implementation of the eu single safety certificate has always been a long-term objective.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on railway safety (recast). i believe that in order to continue the efforts to establish a single market for rail transport services, a common regulatory framework for railway safety should be established.
in writing. ‒ i also supported the european parliament resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts. the proposed regulation establishes a common framework to ensure the accuracy and integrity of indices used as benchmarks for financial instruments and financial contracts in the union. its main objectives are to improve governance and ensure that custodians avoid conflicts of interest, to improve the quality of input data and methodologies used by comparative custodians. the proposed regulation applies to all published criteria used to list financial instruments traded or admitted to trading on a regulated venue or financial contracts. the proposal exempts from its scope central banks that are members of the european system of central banks.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts. we need accurate and comprehensive benchmarks to avoid value manipulation that causes huge losses for consumers and investors and further reduces citizens' already low level of confidence in the banking sector. the financial sector needs, inter alia, accurate and comprehensive benchmarks to best assess the performance of an investment fund for the purposes of determining profitability, determining the allocation of assets in the portfolio or calculating performance payments.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts. errors or doubts about the accuracy and integrity of the indices used as benchmarks can undermine market confidence, cause losses for consumers and investors and distort the real economy. it is therefore necessary to ensure the accuracy, robustness and integrity of the benchmarks and the procedures for their establishment.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a regulation because its fundamental objective is, among other things, to improve the management of financial instruments criteria in the eu. the new rules are of direct relevance to citizens of the european union, as they will set criteria for mortgage payments and thus improve legal certainty.
in writing. ‒ i supported the discharge report for 2014 on the general budget of the eu european commission and executive agencies. i believe that european union expenditure contributes greatly to improving the level of european values and has been used in accordance with the rules. in granting discharge to the commission, parliament checks that the funds have been used lawfully and correctly, that the objectives of the guidelines have been achieved and that the appropriate results have been obtained, and that the principles of sound financial management and a culture of efficiency have been observed. these objectives were met, and i had no reservations about supporting the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by rapporteur martina dlabajová gives good reasons for granting discharge to the european commission and the implementing agencies, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section iii commission and executive agencies. the european commission implements the budget and manages the programmes. the court of auditors notes that the accounts for the financial year 2014 have been kept confidential and that the related transactions are legal and regular. i therefore supported the discharge to be given to the implementing agencies in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section iii i supported the commission and the executive agencies. when granting discharge to the commission, parliament shall verify, on the one hand, that the appropriations have been used in a lawful and proper manner and, on the other hand, that the policy objectives and the corresponding results have been achieved and that the principles of sound financial management have been respected. the commission's discharge for 2014 focused on adopting an enhanced, performance-based and results-oriented approach that will contribute to balancing the traditional approach with the introduction of new elements in line with current and future eu financing needs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 european commission and executive agencies, as the court of auditors did not find any major irregularities.
in writing. ‒ i also supported the european court of auditors' special reports package in the context of the commission's discharge for 2014. these cover the cost management of rural development projects funded by eu grants and contain reports on errors in rural development spending what the causes are and how they are addressed, whether the management of eu support to prevent and repair damage to forests caused by fires and natural disasters has been good, transport on inland waterways in europe, etc. as the court of auditors has noted, the conditions of navigation and certain other environmental, agricultural and social sectors have not improved significantly since 2011 and the responsibility for improving them lies with the commission and the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european court of auditors' special reports in the framework of the commission's discharge for 2014. despite support for the 2014 discharge, there is still a lot of room for improvement. the european court of auditors correctly identifies irregularities in public procurement, payments, evaluation and other areas. it also made a number of recommendations which i hope will be taken into account as far as possible. i also hope that the proactive approach of the commission and the member states will improve budget implementation in the future.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed the report on the special reports of the european court of auditors in the context of the commission's discharge for 2014, having regard to the special reports of the court of auditors drawn up in accordance with the second subparagraph of article 287 (4) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the findings of the court of auditors' special reports form an integral part of the abovementioned parliament decision of 27 april 2016 on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section iii commission. good financial management is aimed at the actual results of eu budgetary measures, provided, of course, that they respect the rules of legality and regularity and contribute to the eu budget's added value from an eu perspective. reducing the error rate and fraud is a necessary condition for complying with the principles of sound financial management.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the european court of auditors' special reports in the framework of the commission's discharge for 2014, as the court did not find any serious weaknesses in the systems selected and in the annual activity reports of the institutions and bodies audited by it.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the discharge reports on the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh european development funds for the financial year 2014, as they did not meet the discharge criteria. it is necessary to strengthen the control of the operations and the management process, in particular the management of the funds of the heads of union delegations, who are expected to be accountable. it is also necessary to ensure greater transparency of the annual activity reports of the directorate-general for international cooperation and development (dg devco). i sincerely hope that the deficiencies mentioned above will be remedied as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by the rapporteur, mrs claudie schmidt, gives good reasons for granting discharge to the european development fund, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh european development funds for the financial year 2014. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the new financial perspectives on the union's external finances, in particular on the budgetary and financial management of the union.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the discharge reports on the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh european development funds for the financial year 2014. the business environment in african, caribbean and pacific countries can be highly risky due to political instability, security concerns and a lax institutional and administrative environment. illicit financial flows due to corruption, tax evasion or money laundering hamper the efforts of partner countries to mobilise domestic revenues and negatively affect their prospects for growth and poverty reduction.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh european development funds for the financial year 2014, as it gives sound reasons in favour of granting discharge to the european development fund. the union has so far achieved relatively good results in international cooperation to address global challenges and provide development support in many parts of the world.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, which concerns the european parliament. as regards the reliability of the accounts for 2014 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, the court of auditors has noted that it carries out a separate assessment of administrative and other expenditure for all the union institutions, including the european parliament, which it considers to be a single policy group, and finds that, according to the audit results, no major errors were made in the administrative expenditure. for the reasons stated above, i had no reason to object to the validation of the exemption.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by rapporteur marcus pieper gives good reasons for granting discharge to the european parliament, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section i european parliament. the court of auditors shall each year carry out a specific assessment of administrative and other expenditure for all the institutions of the union, including the european parliament, which it shall consider as one single policy group. for 2014, the error rate was 0,5%, down from 1% the year before.
in writing. ‒ report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section i european parliament, having regard to the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, i have given my support. the secretary-general, as the authorising officer by delegation on 18 september 2015, has confirmed that he can give reasonable assurance that the appropriations allocated to parliament's budget have been used for their intended purpose and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management. article 166 (1) of regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012 requires all union institutions to take appropriate action to take account of the findings annexed to parliament's discharge decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, as the court of auditors did not find any serious deficiencies in the systems selected and in the annual activity reports it audited. i also support all the recommendations in the report to improve the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of public financial management.
in writing. ‒ i also supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, as regards the european council and the council. on the basis of the audit work, the court of auditors concluded that the total payments for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies for the year ended 31 december 2014 were free from material error. a smaller number of errors were found relating to the calculation of staff costs and some shortcomings relating to the calculation of family allowances. since these are minor deficiencies which do not materially depart from the criteria for granting the exemption, i supported the exemption.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by rapporteur ryszard czarnecki gives good reasons against granting discharge to the european council and the council, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section ii european council and council. i welcome the fact that the court of auditors has not identified any significant errors in the total payments for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies for 2014. it found only a minor number of errors relating to the calculation of staff costs and some shortcomings relating to the management of family allowances.
in writing. ‒ report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section ii european council and council, having regard to the consolidated accounts of the european union for the financial year 2014 (com (((2015) 0377 c8-0201/2015) and to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, transparency and control of public accounts are key democratic principles that also apply to the eu. the dismissal process is part of the concept of representative democracy. in accordance with article 319 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), the european parliament is the sole authority responsible for granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report calling for the suspension of the discharge to be given to the secretary-general of the council in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2014. i agree that the financial operations of the council should be more transparent and fully accountable to the citizens of the union for the funds allocated to it. there is a need to establish good-faith cooperation between parliament and the council in the annual discharge procedure.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section iv court of justice of the european union. in its 2014 annual report, the court of auditors did not identify any serious deficiencies with regard to the audited areas relating to human resources and procurement of the court of justice of the european union. i also welcome the fact that the court of auditors concluded, on the basis of the audit work, that there were no material errors in the total payments for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies for the year ended 31 december 2014.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by mr vistisen, the rapporteur, gives good reasons for granting discharge to the european court of justice, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section iv court of justice of the european union. as for the european council and the council, the court of auditors did not find any serious deficiencies in the audited areas related to human resources and public procurement for 2014, which is very positive. there were also no significant errors for the payment headings for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies for 2014.
in writing. ‒ report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section iv court of justice of the european union, having regard to the consolidated accounts of the european union for the financial year 2014 (com (((2015) 0377 c8-0202/2015), the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014, together with the institutions' replies, and the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the court of auditors stated in its 2014 annual report that it had not identified any serious deficiencies with regard to the audited areas relating to human resources and procurement of the court of justice of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, as regards the court of auditors of the eu. since the court of auditors cannot audit itself, its final accounts are audited by an independent external auditor, applying the same principles of transparency and accountability as those applied by the court of auditors to audited entities. the external auditor was of the opinion that the accounts give a true and fair view of the financial situation of the court of auditors, which i also concur with.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by rapporteur ryszard czarnecki gives good reasons for granting discharge to the european court of auditors, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section v court of auditors. the court of auditors' final accounts shall be audited by an independent external auditor, thereby ensuring transparency and independence and a true and fair presentation of the court's financial position. through its reports and opinions on results and outcomes and recommendations, the court of auditors plays an important role in evaluating union policies with a view to improving the economy, efficiency and effectiveness of activities financed by the european union.
in writing. ‒ report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section v i have given my support to the court of auditors, having regard to the consolidated accounts of the european union for the financial year 2014 (com (((2015) 0377 c8-0203/2015), the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014, together with the institutions' replies, and the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the role of the court of auditors is very important in ensuring that european funds are used more wisely and efficiently. the court of auditors is in an excellent position to provide useful opinions to the legislator and the budgetary authority on the results and outcomes achieved by eu policies, thus improving the economy, efficiency and effectiveness of eu-funded activities.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, as regards the european economic and social committee. i welcome the fact that the court of auditors has concluded, on the basis of the audit work, that there were no significant errors in the total payments for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies for the year ended 31 december 2014.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by mr vistinen gives good reasons for granting discharge to the european economic and social committee, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section vi european economic and social committee. we can be satisfied that the total payments for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies for 2014 were free from material error. however, this cannot be said for four of the 15 european economic and social committee procurement procedures examined where the court of auditors found shortcomings.
in writing. ‒ report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section vi european economic and social committee i have endorsed. on the basis of the audit work, the court of auditors concluded that the total payments for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies for the year ended 31 december 2014 were free from material error. i have taken note of the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report to the secretary-general of the european economic and social committee on the budget of the european economic and social committee for the financial year 2014, as it was implemented in accordance with the principles of transparency and control of public accounts and no major errors were detected.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, as regards the committee of the regions. the court of auditors stated in its 2014 annual report that it had not identified any serious deficiencies in relation to the audited areas relating to human resources and public procurement of the committee of the regions. on the basis of the audit work, it was concluded that the total payments for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies for the year ended 31 december 2014 were free from material error. for that reason, i had no qualms about supporting the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by rapporteur monice macovei gives good reasons for granting discharge to the committee of the regions, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section vii committee of the regions. i welcome the fact that the court of auditors did not find any serious deficiencies in 2014 in relation to the audited areas relating to human resources and public procurement of the committee of the regions, nor in the total payments for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies for 2014. i support the request in the report that the annual activity report be accompanied by the committee's property policy, in particular because it is important that the costs of such a policy are properly rationalised and not excessive.
in writing. ‒ report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section vii committee of the regions i have endorsed. the court of auditors stated in its 2014 annual report that it had not identified any serious deficiencies in relation to the audited areas relating to human resources and public procurement of the committee of the regions. on the basis of the audit work, it concluded that the total payments for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies for the year ended 31 december 2014 were free from material error.
in writing. ‒ i supported the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, as the court of auditors stated in its 2014 annual report that it had not identified any serious deficiencies in relation to the audited areas relating to human resources and public procurement of the committee of the regions.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, as regards the european external action service (eeas). the court of auditors found no major weaknesses in the systems selected and in the annual activity report. i welcome the fact that the eeas has implemented its budget without a significant error rate and that the overall error rate in the administrative budget was estimated by the court of auditors at 0,5%.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by rapporteur ryszard czarnecki gives good reasons for opposing the discharge to the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european external action service, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section x european external action service. the european external action service continued to implement its budget in 2014 without a significant error rate of 0,5% in the administrative budget, as assessed by the court of auditors. i support the call for the eeas to continue its efforts to monitor and support the implementation of procurement rules and procedures in delegations through advice, training and guidance from the headquarters, in particular in the procurement of security services.
in writing. ‒ report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section x european external action service i have endorsed. the european external action service (eeas) continued to implement its budget without a significant error rate and the overall administrative budget error rate decreased to 0,5%. i have noted the consolidated annual accounts of the european union for the financial year 2014, and the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 by the european external action service, as it finds that the court of auditors did not find any major weaknesses in the systems selected and in the annual activity report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, as regards the european ombudsman. the european parliament welcomes the fact that the court of auditors stated in its annual report for 2014 that it had not identified any significant deficiencies in relation to the audited areas relating to the european ombudsman's human resources and procurement. on the basis of the audit work, the court of auditors concluded that there were no significant errors in the total payments for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies for the year ended 31 december 2014, and i agree with this.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by rapporteur ryszard czarnecki gives good reasons for granting discharge to the european ombudsman, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section viii european ombudsman. the court of auditors found no major weaknesses in relation to the audited areas relating to the european ombudsman's human resources and procurement for 2014. i support the call for the ombudsman to respect the principle of transparency, in particular as regards the identification and allocation of clear tasks, and to ensure that his website is regularly updated and accurately reflects the institution's organisational structure.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section viii european ombudsman. the court of auditors stated in its 2014 annual report that it had not identified any significant deficiencies with regard to the audited areas relating to the european ombudsman's human resources and procurement. on the basis of the audit work, it concluded that the total payments for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies for the year ended 31 december 2014 were free from material error. i have also taken into account, inter alia, regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012 of the european parliament and of the council of 25 october 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union and repealing council regulation (ec, euratom) no 1605/2002, and in particular articles 55, 99, 164, 165 and 166 thereof.
in writing. ‒ i supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014 by the european ombudsman, as the court of auditors stated in its 2014 annual report that it had not identified any significant deficiencies in the audited areas relating to the european ombudsman's human resources and public procurement.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section ix european data protection supervisor. the european parliament took note of the court of auditors' findings that there were no material errors in the payments for the administrative and other expenditure of the european data protection supervisor for the year ended 31 december 2014 and that the auditors' supervisory and control systems for administrative and other expenditure were effective.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by rapporteur monice macova gives good reasons for granting discharge to the edps, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section ix european data protection supervisor. the court of auditors did not find any major shortcomings in the area of administrative and other expenditure and human resources and public procurement of the supervisor in 2014. however, it is certainly not positive and encouraging that the supervisor has not made available full information on its conflict of interest policy.
in writing. ‒ report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section ix european data protection supervisor i have endorsed the report. the court of auditors concluded that there were no significant errors in the payments for administrative and other expenditure of the european data protection supervisor for the year ended 31 december 2014 and that the supervisory and control systems for administrative and other expenditure reviewed were effective.
in writing. ‒ i voted to grant the european data protection supervisor discharge in respect of the implementation of his budget for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors notes that the payments for the administrative and other expenditure of the european data protection supervisor for the year ended 31 december 2014 were free from material error and that the auditors' and control systems for administrative and other expenditure were effective.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's proposal for a discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european union agencies for the financial year 2014: performance, financial management and control. the discharge also highlighted the importance of the tasks carried out by the agencies and their direct impact on the daily lives of the citizens of the european union. independent agencies, in particular regulatory agencies and agencies with independent information gathering functions, have been established primarily to carry out independent technical or scientific assessments and therefore need to be financially stable and to be financially viable.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by the rapporteur, mr derek vaughan, on the performance, financial management and control of agencies makes some good suggestions on the management of agencies, and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european union agencies for the financial year 2014: performance, financial management and control. the court of auditors has found that the transactions related to the closure of the accounts of all decentralised agencies for the financial year 2014 were legal and regular. the commission also found that the exporting producers concerned had not provided any evidence that the measures were in line with the requirements of the union interest.
in writing. ‒ report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the agencies of the european union for the financial year 2014: performance, financial management and control i supported. i have taken note of the commission's report on the follow-up to the discharge for the financial year 2013 and the commission staff working documents accompanying the report. the tasks carried out by the agencies are of a very high importance and have a direct impact on the daily lives of eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european union agencies for the financial year 2014: performance, financial management and control, having regard to the court of auditors' special annual reports on the final accounts of individual decentralised agencies for the financial year 2014, which note that the agencies have made good progress in terms of implementing the allocated measures and have managed to reduce the consumption of public funds compared to 2013.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) for the financial year 2014. i welcome the fact that acer has improved the system of key performance indicators, introducing a distinction between performance indicators and key performance indicators. this will help the management to determine more quickly whether the overall objectives of the agency have been achieved. that system will be used in 2015 as part of the new structure of the agency's work programme.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by rapporteur derek vaughan gives good reasons for granting discharge to the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors found that the level of implementation of the budget in 2014 was in line with the agency's planned objective. the agency also reviewed its system of key performance indicators, introducing a distinction between performance indicators and key performance indicators to provide management with a clearer indication of whether the agency's overall objectives have been achieved.
in writing. ‒ i supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors, in its report on the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, as well as the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the agency's final accounts for the financial year 2014 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. ‒ i also supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec) for the financial year 2014. having regard to the final accounts of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2014, it is concluded that the figures in the final accounts of berec are as annexed to the court of auditors' report. the berec management board has adopted all relevant internal control standards, but not all standards are yet fully implemented. however, in the court's view, this is not sufficient to justify the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by rapporteur derek vaughan gives good reasons for granting discharge to the office of the european regulator for electronic communications and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors stated that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the office's accounts for the year 2014 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the budget implementation rate was higher in 2014 than in 2012 due to budgetary monitoring.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors, in its report on the final annual accounts of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2014, has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the office's accounts for the year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2014, as the court of auditors stated in the report on the office's final accounts for the financial year 2014 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the office's accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union (cdt) for the financial year 2014. the figures in the final accounts of cdt are those set out in the annex to the court of auditors' report. the centre wants to improve its quality control system and customer feedback, and it organised a workshop for independent translators to introduce them to its working methods.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by the rapporteur, mr derek vaughan, gives good reasons for granting discharge to the translation centre for the bodies of the european union, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2014. the implementation rate of the translation centre's budget for the bodies of the european union was lower than in 2013, as was the rate of implementation of payments. the court also found that the centre met 80% of the internal control standards, as it had made a great effort to implement the remaining measures in the action plan for these standards.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2014, having regard to regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012 of the european parliament and of the council of 25 october 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union and repealing council regulation (ec, euratom) no 1605/2002, and in particular article 208 thereof.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2014, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the centre's final accounts for the financial year 2014 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the centre's accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2014. the european parliament found that the figures in the final accounts of the european centre for the development of vocational training were as annexed to the court of auditors' report. i find it commendable that the centre has focused its activities on contributing to and supporting policies that address youth unemployment. information from the detailed documents on vocational training and education policies prepared by the centre for all member states has been taken into account in the 2014 european semester country-specific recommendations.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by rapporteur derek vaughan gives good reasons for granting discharge to the european centre for the development of vocational training and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors found that the budget implementation rate in 2014 was at the same level as in 2013 and the payment execution rate was 3,29% higher than the previous year. i agree that the centre's annual reports could play an important role in complying with the principles of transparency, accountability and integrity and i join the call for the centre to include a standard chapter on these components in its annual reports.
in writing. ‒ i supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors, in its report on the centre's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the centre's accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2014, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the centre's final accounts for the financial year 2014 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the centre's accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2014. the european parliament has found that the figures in the final annual accounts of the european police college are as annexed to the court of auditors' report. i also support the academy's adoption and publication of a policy on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest in november 2014.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by rapporteur derek vaughan gives good reasons for granting discharge to the european police college and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2014. the final budget of the european police college in 2014 was higher than in 2013 and the rate of implementation of the budget in 2014 was also higher than in 2013. meanwhile, the execution rate fell by 6,74% compared with the previous year. i support the call for the academy to apply the measures relating to discretion and exclusion in relation to public procurement consistently, by checking the background of each individual case, and in addition to applying the exclusion criteria, thereby excluding undertakings in any conflict of interest, which is essential for the protection of the financial interests of the union.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2014, having regard to the court of auditors' report on the final accounts of the european police college for the financial year 2014, together with the college's replies and the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2014, as the court of auditors stated in the report on the academy's final accounts for the financial year 2014 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the academy's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2014. the figures in the final accounts of the european aviation safety agency were found to be as set out in the annex to the court of auditors' report. the agency adopted a list of measures to increase efficiency and generate savings, and at the same time started a reorganisation project which was carried out by the agency's staff for seven months. the costs of the same project carried out by an external company would be considerably higher.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by rapporteur derek vaughan gives good reasons for granting discharge to the european aviation safety agency and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors found that the implementation rate of the 2014 budget for the european aviation safety agency was a low percentage point lower than the previous year. the rate of payment execution was also lower than in 2013. i welcome the fact that the agency has further reduced the total amount of appropriations committed carried over to the following year.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors, in its report on the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2014, as the accounts of the european aviation safety agency are in accordance with the principles of legality, regularity and sound financial management.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2014. the european parliament has found that the figures in the final accounts of the european asylum support office are as annexed to the court of auditors' report. the office has identified that the current refugee crisis is becoming difficult to manage and that the office's tasks are likely to increase in the future, with the need to increase its budget and staff.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by rapporteur derek vaughan gives good reasons for granting discharge to the european asylum support office and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2014. i myself express my concern that the european asylum support office has acted in contravention of the financial regulation by transferring eur 1 300 000 of budgetary commitments which were not covered by legal commitments. the court of auditors found that the rate of implementation of the office's budget in 2014 was lower than in 2013, as was the rate of implementation of payments.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2014, having regard to the court of auditors' report on the final accounts of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2014, together with the office's replies and the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2014, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the office's final accounts for the financial year 2014 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the office's accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2014. we found that the data in the final accounts of the european banking authority are as annexed to the court of auditors' report and therefore there are no reservations in supporting the discharge. the european banking authority has an important role to play in promoting a common supervisory regime in the internal market, which is essential to ensure financial stability, more closely linked, efficient and secure financial markets and better consumer protection in the union by promoting fairness and transparency in the market for financial products and services.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by rapporteur derek vaughan gives good reasons for granting discharge to the european banking office and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors found that both the budget implementation rate and the payment execution rate of the european banking authority were higher than in 2013. i support the call for the european banking authority to improve the prevention of and fight against corruption in general through an integrated approach, starting with improving public access to documents and introducing stricter rules on conflicts of interest.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2014, having regard to the court of auditors' report on the final accounts of the european banking authority for the financial year 2014, together with the replies of the office and the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2014, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the authority's final accounts for the financial year 2014 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the authority's accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014. the european parliament has found that the figures in the final accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control are as annexed to the court of auditors' report. the centre has produced and published all reports as downloadable documents available on its web portal, and also strives to provide more up-to-date data, graphs, maps and infographics as downloadable documents for users travelling to countries where the risk of infection is higher.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by rapporteur derek vaughan gives good reasons for granting discharge to the ecdc and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014. i welcome the very high (98,77%) rate of implementation of the budget in 2014, which is higher than the previous year. the rate of payment execution is also affected. the european centre for disease prevention and control has improved the budgeting and execution of operational expenditure for meetings, in particular the use of actual average air ticket prices rather than the ceiling of the event budget, and the implementation of immediate cancellation of rights after the meeting.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014, having regard to the court of auditors' report on the final accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014, together with the office's replies, and to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) as the final accounts of the ecdc for the financial year 2014 are in accordance with the principles of legality, regularity and sound financial management.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2014. the european parliament has found that the figures in the final accounts of the european chemicals agency are as annexed to the court of auditors' report. the agency is working to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of its activities, intends to obtain a certificate for activities related to hazardous chemicals and biocidal products, and will also continue to integrate the environmental management system into the quality management system.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by rapporteur derek vaughan gives good reasons for granting echa's discharge, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2014. the commission also found that the commission had not provided any information on the number of employees of the company in the union. the court also notes, inter alia, that the agency has had difficulty in obtaining additional subsidies for those years when the financial revenue from the biocide fees will be lower than expected due to the lack of a financial reserve.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2014, having regard to the court of auditors' report on the final accounts of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2014, together with the office's replies, and to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2014, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the agency's final accounts for the financial year 2014 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's accounts for the year 2014 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014. the european parliament found that the figures in the final accounts of the european environment agency were as annexed to the court of auditors' report. the agency has started to implement a new policy of ex ante and ex post controls on grant awards, which is a great step forward and one i welcome.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by rapporteur derek vaughan gives good reasons for granting the eea discharge and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014. both the budget implementation rate and the payment execution rate for 2014 are at a high level, which i welcome. the court of auditors also found no major errors in the level of commitment appropriations carried over to 2014. i support the call for the agency to apply the measures relating to discretion and exclusion in relation to public procurement consistently, by checking the background of each individual case, and in addition to applying the exclusion criteria, thereby excluding undertakings in any conflict of interest, which is essential for the protection of the financial interests of the union.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency, having regard to the court of auditors' report on the final accounts of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014, together with the office's replies, and to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014, as the court of auditors' report on the final accounts of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014 states that the final accounts of the eea for the financial year 2014 are in accordance with the principles of legality, regularity and sound financial management.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2014. the european parliament has found that the figures in the final accounts of the european fisheries control agency are as annexed to the court of auditors' report. the fisheries control agency shall endeavour to ensure that controls of activities in the member states are appropriately coordinated and structured, in particular through the various measures agreed by the member states and the commission within the agency's regional steering groups. in addition, the agency has to implement the new tasks of the common fisheries policy with a budget frozen at the level of 2013, which makes it difficult for it to carry out additional tasks. i believe that the question of the efca budget should also be seriously discussed in the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by rapporteur derek vaughan gives good reasons for granting the efca discharge and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors found that the budget implementation rate in 2014 was slightly higher than in 2013, as was the payment execution rate of the european fisheries control agency. the court also stresses the need to assess whether the budgetary appropriations for the agency's operations could be increased in the coming years.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency, having regard to the court of auditors' report on the final accounts of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2014, together with the replies of the office and the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2014, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the final accounts of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2014 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2014. the european parliament has found that the figures in the final accounts of the european food safety authority are as annexed to the court of auditors' report. the agency has developed a number of measures in support of the objectives of openness and transparency and dialogue with stakeholders, including civil society representatives. a good example is dedicated sessions such as plenary sessions in brussels for contacts with observers and stakeholders, public consultations on the preliminary studies of the guidelines, public consultations on draft opinions followed by dedicated sessions of members and social media presence.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by rapporteur derek vaughan gives good reasons for granting the efsa discharge and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors found that the budget implementation rate in 2014 was higher than in 2013 and the payment execution rate was lower than in the previous years. i also very much welcome the fact that the agency introduced a talent management programme in 2014 to optimise the use of human resources (employees and experts).
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority, having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2014, together with the office's replies, and to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2014, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the agency's final accounts for the financial year 2014 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2014. the european parliament has found that the figures in the final accounts of the european institute for gender equality are as annexed to the court of auditors' report. the institute is seeking synergies by combining certain tasks and introducing joint services with other agencies, and is introducing a service level agreement with the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union in the field of ex-post controls.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by rapporteur derek vaughan gives good reasons for granting the eige discharge, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2014. the budget implementation rate was high, reflecting the timely commitments. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of beneficiaries of the aid. only 1.76 per cent of the total amount carried over from the 2013 financial year was cancelled, which i welcome. at the same time, the european institute for gender equality should maintain the minimum possible level of committed appropriations carried over in the coming years.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality, having regard to the court of auditors' report on the final accounts of the european centre for gender equality for the financial year 2014, together with the office's replies, and to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2014, as the figures in the final accounts of the european institute for gender equality comply with the principles of legality and regularity and sound financial management.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2014. the european parliament has found that the figures in the final annual accounts of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority are as annexed to the court of auditors' report. in carrying out its activities, the european insurance and occupational pensions authority should pay particular attention to safety and prudence in the financial sector, ensuring compliance with union law, respecting the principle of proportionality and observing the fundamental principles of the internal market for financial services. all of the above is meticulously carried out and there were no grounds for opposing the exemption.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by rapporteur derek vaughan gives good reasons for granting eiopa a discharge and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2014. the role of the authority is of paramount importance for ensuring financial stability and a more closely connected, transparent, efficient and secure financial market. the budget implementation rate was as high as 100% in 2014, higher than in 2013, and the payment execution rate was also higher than the previous year.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority, having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2014, together with the office's replies, and to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) for the financial year 2014, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the agency's final accounts for the financial year 2014 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the role of eiopa in promoting a common supervisory regime in the internal market is essential to ensure financial stability, a more closely connected, transparent, efficient and secure financial market and a higher level of consumer protection in the union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2014. the european parliament has found that the figures in the final annual accounts of the european institute of innovation and technology are as annexed to the court of auditors' report. in order to reduce costs and promote best practice in the field of public procurement, the institute participates in several interinstitutional commission procurement procedures. i also welcome the fact that in 2014 the institute and the european police college signed a memorandum of understanding to jointly carry out procurement procedures, given their geographical proximity.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by rapporteur derek vaughan gives good reasons for granting discharge to the eit, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors found that the implementation rate of the 2014 budget was lower than in 2013 and the payment rate was lower than in the previous year. at the same time, the court of auditors also correctly notes that the european institute of innovation and technology faced uncertainty regarding the 2014 budget throughout 2013 due to the negotiations on the new financial framework and horizon 2020.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology, having regard to the court of auditors' report on the final accounts of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2014, together with the replies of the office, and to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2014, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the agency's final accounts for the financial year 2014 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2014. the european parliament found that the figures in the final accounts of the european medicines agency were as annexed to the court of auditors' report. the agency assessed the effectiveness of its central internal control system in 2014 and the results showed that the agency's internal controls performed well in that year and did not expose the agency to risk.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by rapporteur derek vaughan gives good reasons for granting the ema discharge and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2014. according to the court of auditors, the european medicines agency had problems with the deadlines for payment of the fees of the candidates and payments to the competent national authorities, as these were the only ones not respected. it therefore rightly calls on the agency to take all further measures necessary to ensure the full exercise of its pharmacovigilance responsibilities and to report effectively to the discharge authority on the measures taken to address those concerns.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency, having regard to the court of auditors' report on the final accounts of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2014, together with the office's replies, and to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2014, as the court of auditors finds in its report on the agency's final accounts for the year 2014 that it complies with the principles of legality and regularity and sound financial management.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2014. the european parliament has found that the figures in the final accounts of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction are as annexed to the court of auditors' report. the centre has taken measures to further reduce the need to adapt the technical specifications of calls for tenders and to ensure that all interested parties are informed more effectively when such adaptations are necessary, by publishing clearer notices on its web portal.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by rapporteur derek vaughan gives good reasons for granting discharge to the emcdda and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2014. i welcome the fact that the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction has taken measures to further reduce the need to adapt the technical specifications of calls for tender in relation to the follow-up to the 2013 discharge and to ensure that all interested parties are more effectively informed when such adaptations are necessary by publishing clearer notices on its website.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, having regard to the court of auditors' report on the closure of the accounts of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2014, together with the replies of the office, and to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year as the court of auditors stated in its report on the agency's closure of the accounts for the financial year 2014 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's accounts for the year 2014 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2014. the european parliament has found that the figures in the final accounts of the european maritime safety agency are as annexed to the court of auditors' report. the agency shall contribute to maritime safety and the prevention of pollution from ships in europe and assist the member states and the commission in the implementation of international and union law. i welcome the agency's cooperation with other european agencies in addressing the current refugee crisis. this cooperation has proved decisive in reducing the number of casualties in the mediterranean.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by rapporteur derek vaughan gives good reasons for granting discharge to emsa and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2014. i welcome the fact that the court of auditors did not comment on the financial management of the agency in 2014. the commission has also received a number of comments from the member states, including from the commission, the european maritime safety agency and the european commission. however, it is true that, under the new legal framework of the agency, the implementation of commitments in 2014 did not reach 95% of the target set by the european commission.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european maritime law agency, having regard to the court of auditors' report on the final accounts of the european maritime law agency for the financial year 2014, together with the replies of the office and the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2014, as the accounts of the european maritime safety agency comply with the principles of legality and regularity and sound financial management. the data show that the agency's final budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 52 403 276, which is 9,37% less than in 2013.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2014. the european parliament has found that the figures in the final annual accounts of the european union agency for network and information security are as annexed to the court of auditors' report. the agency has adopted an internal policy to improve the cost-effectiveness and environmental friendliness of its premises. they have eliminated all paper-based workflows, including files and documents on financial transactions and personnel matters, and replaced them with electronic documents, thus striving to achieve a paperless office environment. their example could certainly be followed by the other european institutions, led by the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by rapporteur derek vaughan gives good reasons for granting enisa a discharge, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2014. according to the court of auditors, the budget implementation rate reached 100% in 2014, a very good result compared to other agencies and bodies. the court of auditors notes, inter alia, that the amount and nature of the 2013 redeployment of the eu agency for network and information security were in line with the financial rules.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for network and information security, having regard to the court of auditors' report on the final accounts of the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2014, together with the office's replies, and to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2014, as it gives the reasons for the discharge. it notes, inter alia, that the court of auditors stated in its report on the agency's final accounts for the financial year 2014 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2014. the european parliament has found that the figures in the final accounts of the european railway agency are as annexed to the court of auditors' report. the agency has an important role in ensuring safety in the european rail system, it monitors the development, testing and deployment of the european rail traffic management system (ertms) and it participates in the evaluation of certain ertms projects. its powers have been further extended by the adoption of the fourth railway package.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by rapporteur derek vaughan gives good reasons for granting the era discharge, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2014. according to the court of auditors, the budget implementation rate in 2014 was slightly lower than in 2013, as was the payment execution rate. i welcome the fact that, in relation to procurement and recruitment procedures, the european railway agency has revised its selection procedures and introduced a number of improvements to the recruitment process to ensure full transparency and equal treatment of candidates.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency, having regard to the court of auditors' report on the final accounts of the european railway agency for the financial year 2014, together with the office's replies, and to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency (era) for the financial year 2014, as it gives the reasons for the discharge. it states, inter alia, that the accounts of the era are reliable, legal and regular.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2014. the european parliament has found that the figures in the final annual accounts of the european securities and markets authority are as annexed to the court of auditors' report. in carrying out its activities, the authority should pay particular attention to safety and prudence in the financial sector, ensure compliance with union law, respect the principle of proportionality and respect the fundamental principles of the internal market for financial services.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by rapporteur derek vaughan gives good reasons for esma's discharge and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors found that the rate of implementation of the budget in 2014 was higher than in 2013, as a result of the commitments made in due time. i welcome the fact that the european securities and markets authority has reduced the volume of reallocation related to reallocation by means of a thorough quarterly budgetary review, as well as monthly reporting to the executive director and quarterly reporting to the management board, in order to ensure better and more transparent budgetary monitoring.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority, having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2014, together with the office's replies, and to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2014, inter alia, because it mentions that the court of auditors stated in its report on the authority's final accounts for the financial year 2014 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the authority's accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation for the financial year 2014. the european parliament found that the figures in the final accounts of the european training foundation were as annexed to the court of auditors' report. the foundation operates in a dynamic environment where it must be highly flexible in constantly updating and changing its activities in order to achieve the expected results in offering support to partner countries. the year 2014 was marked in particular by persistent political instability in the southern and eastern mediterranean as well as in eastern europe due to the crisis in ukraine, which also affected the scope of the etf's activities.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by rapporteur derek vaughan gives good reasons for granting the etf discharge, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors found that both the budget implementation rate and the payment execution rate were high. this is the result of commitments made in good time. i also welcome the fact that since 2008 the european training foundation has been working to reduce the number of staff in central administrative services, while increasing the number of professionals with whom it cooperates.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european maritime law agency, having regard to the court of auditors' report on the final accounts of the european maritime law agency for the financial year 2014, together with the replies of the office and the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation for the financial year 2014, as it gives the reasons for granting discharge. it notes, inter alia, that the court of auditors stated in its report on the foundation's final accounts for the financial year 2014 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the foundation's accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2014. the european parliament has found that the figures in the final accounts of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice are as annexed to the court of auditors' report. the agency should improve the prevention of and fight against corruption in general through an integrated approach, starting with facilitating access to documents and introducing stricter rules on conflicts of interest, and encouraging cooperation between member states and with relevant third countries.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report of the rapporteur, mr derek vaughan, gives good reasons for granting the eu-lisa discharge and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2014. the agency's budget for 2014 was lower than that for 2013, coming entirely from the budget of the european union. i welcome the fact that, in the context of the prevention and management of conflicts of interest and transparency, the agency strictly respects the requirement that all members of the management board and advisory groups make a public declaration of interest in writing each year.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice, having regard to the court of auditors' report on the closure of the accounts of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2014, together with the office's replies, and to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2014, as it states that the accounts of eu-lisa are in accordance with the principles of legality and regularity and sound financial management.
in writing. ‒ i also supported, with my colleagues, the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2014. the draft decision of the european parliament confirms that the figures in the final annual accounts of the european agency for safety and health at work are as annexed to the court of auditors' report. the resolution noted that the court of auditors' annual activity report and audit findings show that the rate and nature of the reallocation in 2014 were in line with the financial rules.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by rapporteur derek vaughan gives good reasons for granting eu-osha discharge, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2014. according to the court of auditors, only 1,96% of the appropriations carried over to 2013 were cancelled from the 2013 financial year, which is positive and encouraging. i welcome the fact that, in the context of the prevention and management of conflicts of interest and transparency, the current procedures for the prevention of conflicts of interest of the staff of the european agency for safety and health at work are being reviewed.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work, having regard to the court of auditors' report on the final accounts of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2014, together with the replies of the office and the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2014, as it gives the reasons for the discharge. it notes, inter alia, that the court of auditors, in its report on eu-osha's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2014. the european parliament has found that the figures in the final accounts of the euratom supply agency are as annexed to the court of auditors' report. the agency shall have an appropriate risk management and control strategy and shall have taken all necessary measures relating to risk assessment and mitigation with a view to aligning internal controls with the requirements of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by rapporteur derek vaughan gives good reasons for granting the discharge to esa, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2014. the euratom supply agency had the same budget in 2014 as in 2013. according to the court of auditors, the implementation rate of commitments for budgetary monitoring in the financial year 2014 was lower than in 2013 and the implementation rate of payment appropriations was as high as 21,91% higher than in the previous year. i welcome the fact that the agency has an appropriate risk management and control strategy and has taken all necessary measures relating to risk assessment and mitigation to align its internal control system with the court of auditors' requirements.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency, having regard to the court of auditors' report on the final accounts of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2014, together with the office's replies, and to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2014, because it states, inter alia, that the accounts of the euratom supply agency are reliable, correct and lawful.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2014. the european parliament has found that the figures in the final accounts of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions are as annexed to the court of auditors' report. the foundation has successfully completed a four-year work programme, and has carried out three european surveys, the european survey on quality of life, on employment relations and on enterprises. they continue to focus their research on youth unemployment and social cohesion, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by rapporteur derek vaughan gives good reasons for granting eurofound discharge, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2014. i welcome that, in the context of the follow-up to the 2013 discharge, the agency has implemented all the corrective actions related to the court of auditors' concerns regarding the physical inventory and the registration of fixed assets. i myself express concern that only about half of the members of the management board have their cvs and declarations of conflict of interest available on the foundation's website, which raises doubts about transparency.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions, having regard to the court of auditors' report on the final accounts of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2014, together with the office's replies, and to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2014, as it states, inter alia, that the court of auditors stated in its report on the closure of eurofound's accounts for the financial year 2014 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of eurofound's accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the office for european judicial cooperation (eurojust) for the financial year 2014. the european parliament found that the figures in the final accounts of eurojust were as annexed to the court of auditors' report. the office considers that further measures are needed to increase the transparency of lobbying activities, to address ethical issues related to the political role of lobbies, their practices and their impact, and to promote integrity guarantees.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by rapporteur derek vaughan gives good reasons for granting discharge to eurojust and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the office for european judicial cooperation (eurojust) for the financial year 2014. the budget of the european judicial cooperation office for 2014 was 4,04% higher than in 2013, coming entirely from the budget of the european union. according to the court of auditors, both the budget implementation rate for the financial year 2014 and the payment appropriations execution rate are at a high level.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european judicial cooperation office, having regard to the court of auditors' report on the final accounts of the european judicial cooperation office for the financial year 2014, together with the office's replies, and to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the office for european judicial cooperation (eurojust) for the financial year 2014, as it gives the reasons for granting discharge. it states, inter alia, that the foundation's accounts comply with the principles of legality and regularity and sound financial management.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police office for the financial year 2014. the european parliament has found that the figures in the final accounts of the european police office are as annexed to the court of auditors' report. the internal control procedures have shown that the iacs supported the audit of the office's forensic laboratory in relation to the examination of euro banknotes, which is an important step in the process of obtaining the official accreditation of the forensic laboratory in this field.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by rapporteur derek vaughan gives good reasons for granting discharge to europol and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european police office for the financial year 2014. i welcome the significant improvement in budget monitoring efforts in the financial year 2014. this has resulted in a high budget implementation rate of 99,70%, indicating that commitments were made in good time. the rate of payment execution was also high, and was higher than a year earlier. with regard to commitments and carry-overs, the court of auditors rightly reminds the office that the volume of committed appropriations carried over to the following year must be kept as low as possible in the future in order to ensure transparency and greater accountability.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european police office, having regard to the court of auditors' report on the final accounts of the european police office for the financial year 2014, together with the office's replies, and to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european police office for the financial year 2014 because it states, inter alia, that the court of auditors stated in its report on the closure of europol's accounts for the financial year 2014 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the office's accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2014. the european parliament has found that the figures in the final accounts of the european union agency for fundamental rights are as annexed to the court of auditors' report. an independent evaluation of the agency was carried out in 2012 to assess the performance, efficiency, added value, coordination and consistency of the work of the agency. one of the key priorities of the agency, based on this assessment, is included in its strategic plan 2013-2017 and helps to strengthen the agency's contribution to the processes at national level.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by rapporteur derek vaughan gives good reasons for granting the fra discharge, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2014. the final budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights, which is 99% from the union budget, was higher in 2014 than the previous year. i welcome the fact that, according to the court of auditors, the budget implementation rate reached 100% in 2014 as well. the high overall level of commitments indicates that budgetary commitments were made in a timely manner.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights, having regard to the court of auditors' report on the final accounts of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2014, together with the office's replies, and to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2014, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the agency's final accounts for the financial year 2014 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's accounts for the year 2014 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the european parliament's proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2014. the european parliament has found that the figures in the final accounts of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union are as annexed to the court of auditors' report. the agency suggested that the new proposal for the establishment of the border and coast guard should go one step further and proposes a proactive role for joint operations and return operations. i myself believe that frontex needs to be given more powers and more human and financial resources, as the refugee and migration crisis has revealed its malnutrition.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by rapporteur derek vaughan gives good reasons for granting frontex discharge, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2014. according to the court of auditors, a number of improvements were made in 2014 in the ex-ante and ex-post verification of expenditure declared by the participating countries under the grant agreements. in 2013, frontex also introduced a more comprehensive risk-based system of prior checks, which includes a request for the submission of selected evidence together with a request for final disbursement.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union, having regard to the court of auditors' report on the final accounts of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2014, together with the office's replies, and to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2014, as it gives the reasons for the discharge. it states, inter alia, that the final accounts of the european agency frontex are reliable, correct and lawful.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by rapporteur derek vaughan gives good reasons for granting discharge to the european gnss agency and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2014. according to the court of auditors, the budget implementation rate reached 99,84% in both 2013 and 2014. i welcome the adoption by the management board of the agency in september 2015 of a policy on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest and the publication on its website of the cvs and declarations of interests of the executive director and senior management in the area of conflict of interest prevention and management and transparency.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european gnss agency, having regard to the court of auditors' report on the final accounts of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2014, together with the office's replies, and to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2014, as it gives the reasons for granting discharge. it notes, inter alia, that the court of auditors stated in its report on the final accounts for the financial year 2014 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the european parliament became aware of the merger of the joint ventures in june 2014, but is nonetheless concerned that the joint venture did not change the financial rules to bring them into line with the new financial regulation applicable to public-private partnership entities.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by the rapporteur, mr marinesco, gives good reasons against granting discharge to the artemis joint undertaking, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. artemis was set up for a period of 10 years to establish and implement a research programme to develop key technologies for embedded computing systems in various fields of application, in order to improve european competitiveness and sustainability and to enable the creation of new markets and societal applications. i welcome the fact that the budgetary and financial management of the joint undertaking is in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules and accounting rules adopted by the commission.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking, having regard to the court of auditors' report on the final accounts of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, together with the office's replies, and to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the artemis joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014, as it gives the reasons for the discharge. notes, inter alia, that the final accounts of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 are in accordance with the principles of legality, regularity and sound financial management;
in writing. ‒ i have supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the european parliament has decided to approve the final accounts of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the report of the joint undertaking on the social and economic impact of activities under the clean sky joint undertaking is welcomed by the members, as is the signing of a memorandum of understanding with the sesar joint undertaking, which aims to strengthen links and synergies.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by the rapporteur, mr marinesco, gives good reasons for granting discharge to the clean sky joint undertaking and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. i welcome the call for an audit focusing on the annual financial performance, the implementation status of multiannual projects (including a clear presentation of the budget execution for the year in question and previous years) and the results of their implementation. however, it should be noted that the information provided by the joint undertaking in this report is inconsistent and often incomplete and the commission should provide guidance on the nature and content of the report.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking, having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, together with the office's replies, and to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the ecsel joint undertaking (formerly the eniac joint undertaking and the artemis joint undertaking) for the financial year 2014. the european parliament has decided to approve the final accounts of the ecsel joint undertaking (formerly the eniac joint undertaking and the artemis joint undertaking) for the financial year 2014. in order to meet the requirements of horizon 2020, the company needs to make a greater contribution to the dissemination of the results of the seventh framework programme and to make a greater effort to cooperate more closely with the commission, as we have also pointed out in the report.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. i did not support the report by the rapporteur, mr marinesco, on the discharge to be given to the ecsel joint undertaking, as that undertaking is the successor to the eniac and artemis joint undertakings, which, according to the european court of auditors, did not perform satisfactorily.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the ecsel joint undertaking (formerly the eniac joint undertaking and the artemis joint undertaking) for the financial year 2014. i agree that an audit with a stronger focus on the annual financial performance, the status of implementation of multiannual projects (including a clear presentation of the budget execution for the year concerned and for previous years) and their results and implementation is necessary, as the court has made too many general comments to the detriment of weighty, specific ones.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the ecsel joint undertaking, having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the ecsel joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, together with the office's replies, and to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the ecsel joint undertaking (formerly the eniac joint undertaking and the artemis joint undertaking) for the financial year 2014, as it gives the reasons and recommendations for granting discharge. according to the court's report, the joint undertaking's annual accounts for the period from 27 june 2014 to 31 december 2014 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2014, its operating result and cash flows for the period then ended, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the commission's accounting officer.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the european parliament's proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. i welcome the fact that the internal audit group has called for improvements in the handling of documents and has proposed, in particular, the introduction of an electronic company system.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by the rapporteur, mr marinesco, gives good reasons against granting discharge to the eniac joint undertaking, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the eniac joint undertaking was established for a period of 10 years to define and implement a research programme to develop key competences for nanoelectronics in different fields of application. i also express my own concern about the court's opinion with reservations on the legality and regularity of the related transactions in the first half of 2014, as the administrative agreements signed with the national funding authorities regarding the audits of project cost claims do not include practical solutions for ex post audits.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking, having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, together with the office's replies, and to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, as it gives the reasons and recommendations in favour of granting discharge. it states, inter alia, that the joint undertaking's accounts for the period from 1 january 2014 to 26 june 2014 fairly present, in all material respects, its financial position as at 26 june 2014 and that its profit and loss and cash flow for the period then ended are in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules and accounting rules adopted by the commission's accounting officer.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by the rapporteur, mr marinesco, gives good reasons for granting discharge to the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. i agree with the call for the court of auditors to place greater emphasis on the annual financial performance, the status of implementation of multiannual projects, including a clear presentation of the implementation of the budget for the year concerned and for previous years, and their results and implementation. the report is based on too many general findings to the detriment of serious, specific ones.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking, having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, together with the replies of the office, and to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, as it gives the reasons and recommendations in favour of granting discharge. it notes, inter alia, that the court of auditors' report states that the joint undertaking's annual accounts for 2014 present fairly, in all material respects, its financial position as at 31 december 2014 and its results of operations and cash flows for the year then ended, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules.
in writing. ‒ i also supported the proposal for a european parliament decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the innovative medicines initiative 2 joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, taking into account the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by the rapporteur, mr marinesco, gives good reasons for granting discharge to the innovative medicines initiative joint undertaking, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the innovative medicines initiative 2 joint undertaking (formerly the innovative medicines joint undertaking) having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the innovative medicines initiative 2 joint undertaking (formerly the innovative medicines joint undertaking) for the financial year 2014, together with the replies of the office and the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the innovative medicines initiative 2 joint undertaking (formerly the innovative medicines joint technology initiative) for the financial year 2014, as it gives reasons and recommendations for granting discharge. notes, inter alia, that the court of auditors found that the joint undertaking's final accounts present fairly, in all material respects, its financial position as at 31 december 2014 and its results of operations and cash flows for the year ended on that date, in accordance with its financial and accounting rules as adopted by the commission's accounting officer;
in writing. ‒ i have supported the proposal for a european parliament decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the iter joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014, has concluded that the final accounts of the joint undertaking for the year 2014 present a true and fair view of the financial position of the joint undertaking in all material respects.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report by the rapporteur, mr marinesco, gives good reasons against granting discharge to the iter joint undertaking, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the iter and fusion energy joint undertaking, having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the iter and fusion energy joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, together with the replies of the office, and to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the iter and fusion energy joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, as it gives the reasons and recommendations in favour of granting discharge. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014 ('the court's report'), states that the final annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the year 2014 present fairly, in all material respects, its financial position as at 31 december 2014 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year then ended, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the proposal for a european parliament decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the european parliament has decided to approve the final accounts of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the joint undertaking is currently preparing a comprehensive report on the social and economic benefits of the completed projects.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the annual budgetary procedure, which can take up to seven months, with a number of negotiations and coordination, the three main eu institutions adopt the european budget for the coming year. the european commission and the other institutions are then responsible for implementing it. as the directly elected institution representing eu taxpayers, the european parliament exercises democratic control and ensures that the commission and other institutions properly manage european funds. parliament shall decide in its annual discharge procedure whether to grant discharge and give final approval to the way the budget has been implemented in a given year. before taking a decision, parliament shall examine the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control and shall take into account the annual report of the court of auditors and the commission's replies to parliamentary questions. the report of the rapporteur, mr marinesco, gives good reasons for granting discharge to the sesar joint undertaking and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking, having regard to the court of auditors' report on the final accounts of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, together with the office's replies, and to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, as it gives the reasons and recommendations in favour of granting discharge. it states, inter alia, that the court of auditors has issued a finding on the accuracy and appropriateness of the accounts of the single european sky air traffic management research joint undertaking (sesar).
in writing. ‒ i supported the 2014 annual report of the european investment bank (eib). the eib investment programme supports the policy objectives of the european union and prioritises investments aimed at accelerating recovery and increasing productivity. the report also pays particular attention to promoting youth employment, increasing the share of innovation and incentives for smes. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. the report also encourages the eib to continue investing in education, skills development and jobs for young people, and details improvements in environmental sustainability and climate action, the promotion of economic and social cohesion and convergence, the management of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), and many others.
in writing. ‒ the european investment bank (eib) provides financial support for projects of union interest, thereby contributing to the balanced development of the internal market and to social, economic and territorial cohesion. on the positive side, in 2014 the eib financed 285 000 smes, safeguarding 3,6 million jobs. the eib should further promote job creation and growth in the eu. the eib currently conceals the identity of the final beneficiaries or beneficial owners of co-financed projects. in addition, it finances projects through intermediaries using tax havens or companies with aggressive tax planning. it is necessary for the eib to strengthen its activities in the field of transparency, thereby improving the quality of information on final beneficiaries. the report highlights the fight against tax evasion, but also puts the emphasis on transparency and the fight against fraud and corruption. the eib has to stop disbursements under loans to projects that are subject to national/european investigations for suspected corruption. another important aspect of the report is the environment and sustainable production. the 13 new member states received only 1% of the funding for renewable energy capacity development. the report calls for the promotion of new investments in environmentally friendly and sustainable production and for a gradual increase in the share of investments in the new member states. that's why i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european investment bank (eib) annual report 2014. i welcome the call for the european investment bank to provide more technical support to member states with a lower project approval rate in the pre-approval phase and encourage it to facilitate the exchange of best practice examples between member states in relation to the successful preparation of calls for projects. the european investment bank must also focus on investing in the real economy to boost job creation and growth in the eu.
in writing. ‒ report on the european investment bank (eib) i have endorsed the 2014 annual report, having regard to the 2014 activity report of the european investment bank (eib), the 2014 eib financial report and the 2014 eib statistical report. the eib's main task as an eu bank is to provide financial support for projects of eu interest which contribute to the balanced development of the internal market and social, economic and territorial cohesion, thus strengthening european integration, which is essential to boosting the eu's competitiveness, in addition to employment. in 2014, the eib financed 285 000 smes, safeguarding 3.6 million jobs, and signed contracts for a total of 413 projects within the eu worth eur 69 billion and 92 new projects outside the eu for a total of eur 7.98 billion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european investment bank (eib) for the financial year 2014, which presented credibly the achievements. the eib financed 285 000 smes in 2014, safeguarding 3.6 million jobs, among other things. the eib's main task as an eu bank is therefore to provide financial support for projects of union interest which contribute to the balanced development of the internal market and to social, economic and territorial cohesion, thereby strengthening european integration and contributing to greater employment and competitiveness in the union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on attacks on hospitals and schools in armed attacks around the world. the resolution expresses the view that investigations into such acts should be conducted independently and that all criminals involved should be held accountable and all participants in such crimes should be dealt with. health and education workers, humanitarian organisations must be involved in the rehabilitation of patients and children, while at the same time providing medical assistance to the family members of victims. the resolution also recognises the importance and the unique nature of the european union guidelines on the promotion and respect of international humanitarian law, as no other country or international organisation has adopted an equivalent document to date.
in writing. ‒ the international community has witnessed an unrelenting trend of attacks on hospitals and schools in armed conflicts around the world over the past few years, such as the recent attacks on doctors without borders (msf) health centres in kunduz, afghanistan, on 3 october 2015, in raza, yemen, on 10 january 2016, and in many syrian conflict towns. the resolution condemns attacks on hospitals and schools as prohibited under international law and recognises that such acts constitute grave breaches of the 1949 geneva conventions and war crimes under the rome statute of the international criminal court. member states and eu institutions are called upon to recognise the real scale of these emergencies and to use all the means at their disposal to address them. respect international humanitarian law and ensure that health and educational institutions are neutral and their premises protected in times of armed conflict. transparent, independent and impartial investigations into brutal attacks are needed. i therefore voted in favour of the report and therefore supported it in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on attacks on hospitals and schools as violations of international humanitarian law. i welcome the invitation to the member states of the european union to take the opportunity of the world humanitarian summit to reaffirm the central importance of international humanitarian law and the protection it provides. international humanitarian law has made a decisive contribution to modern human history. the use and attacks on hospitals and schools by participants in armed conflicts are reprehensible.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on attacks on hospitals and schools as violations of international humanitarian law. the international community has witnessed a horrifying trend in recent years of attacks on hospitals and schools in armed conflicts around the world, most recently on médecins sans frontières (msf) health centres. we are witnessing the most extensive denial and prevention of humanitarian aid, the killing of civilians and humanitarian workers, detention in extremely poor conditions, and the taking of hostages and the forced enslavement of civilians. the current humanitarian system has reached its limits, forcing many organisations to suspend food aid, shelter and other life-saving humanitarian operations. it is necessary to strengthen the protection of humanitarian workers and to ensure the same level of security measures for international and local staff.
in writing. ‒ the increasing number of non-state actors, terrorist groups and other actors in armed conflicts is making it more difficult to implement international humanitarian law. there are worrying reports of deadly attacks on hospitals, schools and other civilian targets, which are increasingly common during armed conflicts around the world, and in which the targets and victims are patients, students, medical and educational staff, humanitarian workers, children and family members entities that are particularly protected by international law.
in writing. ‒ the right of access to eu documents is guaranteed by the treaty on the functioning of the european union (article 15) and by the charter of fundamental rights of the european union (article 42). the mechanisms for submitting requests for documents and the rules on exceptions are developed in regulation 1049/2001 on access to parliament, council and commission documents the eu equivalent of access to information and freedom to provide legal advice. transparent administration is in the interests of citizens, the fight against corruption and the legitimacy of the political system and union law. however, the institutions, agencies and other bodies of the european union are unfortunately not yet fully complying with the rules and changes envisaged by the lisbon treaty and the charter of fundamental rights in the application of regulation (ec) no 1049/2001, in particular as regards participatory democracy. the eu must take further steps to increase the transparency of its governance and its legislative process. the main aspects covered by the report are: transparency and democracy, transparency of the legislative process, mandatory lobby register and international agreements. for the reasons stated above, i supported the report and voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on public access to documents (rule 116 (7) of the rules of procedure) in 2014 and 2015. the three institutions did not take appropriate follow-up to many of the recommendations in the resolution on public access to documents for 2011-2013, which is a matter of concern. it is also regrettable that the eu institutions and bodies have not designated a transparency officer within their governance structure, who would be responsible for compliance and improving practices. i urge the institutions to do so as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on public access to documents (rule 116 (7) of the rules of procedure) in 2014 and 2015. full transparency is the basis for citizens' trust in the eu institutions, contributes to an understanding of the rights deriving from the union acquis and to awareness and knowledge of the eu decision-making process, including the proper implementation of administrative and legislative procedures. the right of access to documents is a fundamental right protected by the charter of fundamental rights and the treaties and transposed into national law by regulation (ec) no 1049/2001.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on public access to documents in 2014 and 2015 because it gives a credible picture of the situation. the right of access to documents is a fundamental right protected by the charter of fundamental rights and the treaties and its exercise needs to be monitored at all times. i believe that the eu institutions must operate in their activities and policies on the basis of representative democracy, as laid down in article 10 (1) teu, and thus ensure that the principles of full transparency, sharing and correct and timely information of citizens are respected.
in writing. ‒ i also supported the report on domestic workers and carers in the european union, as i believe it raises a number of topical issues. it should be noted that both very large categories of domestic workers and carers are dominated by women, who are predominantly immigrants. they usually have a low level of education and need to work to support themselves and their families, but in doing so they often lack the appropriate contracts with employers and, consequently, lack social rights. the report therefore makes a clear call for all member states to contribute to the promotion and protection of human rights and to strongly condemn all forms of abuse, harassment and violence against all workers, and in particular domestic workers. i also supported the report because it contains a recommendation to member states to launch awareness campaigns to raise awareness among public and private bodies, families and the general public, so that these professions are properly recognised and recognised.
in writing. ‒ in 2010, 2.5 million people were employed in the eu in the domestic work sector, 88% of whom were women, as this sector is characterised by feminization. the report calls for the introduction of a general framework for the professionalisation of domestic workers and carers in the eu. unfortunately, both sectors are rife with illegal work and exploitation of workers. professionalisation confers on workers in a particular sector the same employment and social protection rights as employees with a statutory contract. the commission is invited to propose a directive on carer's leave and a framework for the recognition of the status of non-professional carers, who will be guaranteed a salary and minimum standards of social protection during the period in which they carry out caring tasks. it also calls on the commission and the member states to ensure the availability of legal migration routes to the eu and to put in place targeted programmes for legal migration. there is a need to introduce measures that can improve the living and working conditions of domestic workers and carers in the eu, which is why i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on domestic workers and carers in the eu. we need a common recognition at european union level of the profession and the value of domestic and care work as genuine work, as recognition of this professional sector is likely to reduce the volume of undeclared work and promote social inclusion. the european union and the member states must establish common rules for domestic and care work. it is also necessary to prepare a set of policy instruments, both legislative and non-legislative, for domestic work.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the vote on the report on domestic workers and carers in the eu. household work, in which the majority of workers are women, provides favourable conditions for the exploitation of workers. such exploitation constitutes a serious violation of fundamental rights, from which both undocumented workers and eu citizens need to be protected. more than a third of domestic workers are not entitled to maternity leave and related rights and benefits. in some member states, domestic workers and carers are not entitled to unemployment benefit. the financial and social crisis and the austerity measures implemented in the eu have taken a heavy toll on its citizens and residents, increasing job insecurity, poverty, unemployment and social exclusion, and leading to limited or no access to public services and social protection services. by professionalizing the profession of housewife, women would be granted full rights as employees under an employment contract. it would also go into another area that we've been avoiding for a long time and reduce the amount of black-ops. regulation in this area would not only benefit individuals who receive social security but also society as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote on the report on domestic workers and carers in the eu. i agree that the area of domestic and care workers in the eu member states is unregulated and needs to be reformed, but this area falls within the competence of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on gender equality and the empowerment of women in the digital age. i believe that the potential of the information society, information and communication technologies and the internet to promote the empowerment of women, their rights and freedoms and gender equality should be fully exploited. and this is regardless of circumstances such as age, disability, genetic characteristics, gender, race, social or ethical background, or economic status. the internet has become a key tool for the daily lives of individuals in family, professional, study and learning environments, for management in companies, public authorities, institutions and organisations, and for the functioning of social networks and the promotion of equal opportunities. i am convinced that its benefits can be used even more effectively, including in promoting gender equality.
in writing. i supported a report that addresses the challenges of digitalisation, which has radically changed the way people access information, communicate, socialise, study and work. digitalisation creates new opportunities for participation in public and political debates, education and the labour market, opens up new possibilities for self-determination and has a great economic potential for the european union and for countries outside it, and impacts on society as a whole. the information society offers great opportunities for creation and development and a great potential for the empowerment of women, so it is important to use the instruments of the digital agenda and the digital single market strategy and to make them more targeted, to close the large gender gap in the ict sector and to promote the full inclusion of women in the sector.
in writing. - digitalisation has changed our lives. we have better access to information, different ways of socializing, studying and working. new opportunities for participation in public and political debates, and for participation in education and the labour market, are being created, representing a great economic potential for the european union. unfortunately, it turns out that there is a huge gender gap in the digital sector. while digitalisation is increasing and has a strong impact on the labour market and on society as a whole, women still have difficulties accessing the ict (information and communication technologies) sector, where they represent only 30% of the workforce. efforts should be made to address this persistent gender imbalance and further efforts should be made to reduce gender gaps in the ict sector. this can be achieved through targeted policy actions to tackle gender stereotypes and mainstream the principle of gender equality in all the european commission's digital initiatives, as well as through targeted investments that promote equality in the digital sector. women are an important resource for the european economy. equal participation of women in the ict sector would mean an annual gain of around eur 9 billion for eu gdp. women and girls must be at the forefront of the digital single market strategy, which is why i voted in favour of the report and therefore supported it.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on gender equality and the empowerment of women in the digital age. digitalisation has radically changed the way people access and provide information, communicate, socialize, study and work, creating new opportunities for participation in public and political debates, education and the labour market, opening up new possibilities for self-determination and having great economic potential for the european union and for countries outside it. digitalisation affects not only markets but also society as a whole.
member of the commission.– madam president, regarding cohesion policy in mountainous regions, the commission welcomes ms iotova’s report and notes the call for cohesion policy to address the specific challenges faced by mountainous regions. the european structural and investment funds (esif) have a long tradition of supporting regions with specific geographical features, which includes mountain regions. the esif regulation already provides several possibilities to take account of the situation of mountainous regions, such as the modulation of co-financing rates and the use of the new territorial tools, that is: community-led local development and integrated territorial investments. the esif support programmes and strategies specifically targeting mountainous regions have introduced tools for integrated strategies, such as the eu macro-regional strategy for the alpine region. the commission will ask in its monitoring and review meetings with the member states how they address the specific situation of mountain regions and how the possibilities offered by the esif regulations have been taken up. it is therefore important to make the most of what the current regulation has to offer, such as the new territorial development tools which i have just mentioned. regarding the new territorial development tools in cohesion policy: as underlined in ms tomašić’s report, integrated territorial investment and community-led local development are decisive for the involvement of local and regional actors. the commission strongly believes that the introduction of these new territorial tools has been a significant step forward in promoting an integrated place-based approach to territorial development. i would like to underline that a significant amount of guidance has been provided to member states and to local actors, both on integrated territorial investment and on community-led local development, to promote the use of these tools. the commission will continue its strong efforts to share information and share best practices, both with member states as well as with local actors. these efforts translate the commission’s willingness to assist member states in ensuring quality implementation of cohesion policy. finally, regarding the oral question. with a budget of more than eur 450 billion and over eur 215 billion for cohesion policy for 2014-2020, the european structural and investment funds are europe’s main investment policy tools. to maximise their impact, a reformed cohesion policy framework was advocated and adopted in agreement with the member states. this framework puts the emphasis on the results, which concentrated funding on priority teams and areas, and investments based on good strategic planning. the reformed cohesion policy requires good quality implementation subsequent to proper programming, planning and preparatory work. due to considerable joint efforts with member states, the commission adopted half of the cohesion policy programmes already in the course of 2014, in spite of delays in adoption of the regulatory framework. however, under shared management, actual implementation of the programmes is the responsibility of the member states. the commission notes that designations of programme authorities took place for less than one quarter of programmes. furthermore, the number of payment claims received is still low. member states are strongly encouraged to continue and to intensify their efforts and there is scope for political pressure in this regard. the commission provided targeted assistance for eight member states covered under the task force for better implementation initiative, reducing significantly the risk of decommitment of funds at closure for the 2007—2013 period to below eur 5 billion, just over one per cent. the targeted approach, centred on member states and programmes at risk of implementation, continues in 2014-2020, and that includes closure-related tasks. our starting point for discussions with member states on the funding priorities was rooted in three pillars: the europe 2020 targets; the relevant country-specific recommendations; and the socio-economic analysis at member state and regional level. in the coming years, future country-specific recommendations may trigger, where relevant, esif programme adjustments. these can also be triggered at the initiative of the commission, ensuring the commission’s support for structural reforms in member states. regarding administrative capacity, to which the 2014-2020 regulations have dedicated a thematic objective with a specific allocation, the commission will continue to assist member states, including through the newly-established structural reform support service, in carrying out structural reforms in line with the european semester process and the country-specific recommendations. furthermore, member states can speed up implementation without losing the quality of the spending by using the expanded range of simplified cost options in the 2014-2020 regulatory framework. the reduction in administrative burden this brings about will ensure a more rapid reimbursement of funds, with a greater focus on the results and a lower risk of errors as compared to reimbursement on the basis of real costs. regarding automatic decommitment of funds in the third year following commitment, this should be less of a concern in 2014-2020. according to current assumptions, no significant decommitments are expected in this period. this is due to the generic application of the three-year rule instead of the two-year rule across all member states and to the annual refinancing payments made to the member states. nevertheless, timely implementation of the cohesion policy allocation is crucial to avoid an accumulation of payment applications towards the end of the programming period and, first and foremost, to ensure that programmes deliver results on the ground as early as possible.
on behalf of the ppe group. i very much welcome this joint debate on cohesion policy in the european parliament. the new tools mentioned in mrs tomašićeva's report are important, but the backlog and the removal of backlogs are even more important at the start of the 2014-2020 cohesion policy, because this is how countries will be able to help themselves with the help of european funds. as shadow rapporteur on the report on cohesion funds in mountain areas for the epp group, allow me to thank mrs iota for her very good cooperation and constructive approach in allowing us to include a whole series of recommendations, amendments from both the committee on agriculture and the members, in this report. the report made it very clear that an area covering 30% of europe's surface area and home to over 70 million people needed to be given a comprehensive strategy for the development of this area and also to develop areas with good synergy between the individual cohesion policy measures. it is important to ensure jobs and growth in these areas, as this ensures the settlement of the areas and thus the living areas. synergies are important between agriculture, industry, tourism and the craft sector, on the one hand, and, of course, measures to protect this area of great biological value. at the same time, we have made clear the importance of preserving water resources, since europe gets most of its drinking water from these mountain areas, and of providing the skills needed in these areas through an accelerated school system. the area of connectivity is also very important, either by providing modern infrastructure, especially rail, to protect the areas, or by providing modern telecommunications infrastructure to enable activity and employment in these areas.
i'm probably gonna say something dissonant in this debate. nordstream 1 was launched at a time when relations between europe and russia were good and promising. it was in this atmosphere that the south stream project was born, which we abandoned. i think that the commission and those who will be leading the energy union project should be trusted to be able to strike a balance between ratios, between economic reasons, between environmental reasons on the one hand and geostrategic reasons on the other. but i think it is too tempting to talk about europe's energy perspective only under the influence of geostrategy. i think we're smart enough to know how to account for other elements.
in writing. this week, the european parliament will vote on the traceability of fishery and aquaculture products in restaurants and retail outlets. the european parliament resolution supports the introduction of a reliable traceability system from landing to consumption, in order to ensure consumer confidence and consequently reduce dependence on imported fishery and aquaculture products, thereby strengthening the eu market. i fully support consumers' rights to information and the strengthening of national controls, and i call on the european commission and the member states to consider the possible introduction of measures to improve the traceability of fishery products. in particular, i support the establishment of an eu ecolabel for fisheries and aquaculture.
i am not from a maritime country that would benefit from this fishing in african seas, but i am nonetheless in favour of these two agreements. i support it for the simple reason that it is very clear from the words of both the commission and the rapporteurs that it is concerned about both. so on the one hand, for the european shipping fleet, the fishing fleet, for sustainable fishing in this part of the seas, the part that also talks about development aid to these countries is particularly important, because we know that we are talking about african countries that are affected by various problems, from disease to other deficiencies. and i am convinced that in every agreement we make with this continent, we must be aware that our fair and also quality humanitarian development aid will be the best we can do for these countries on the one hand and for europe on the other. i'll support both agreements.
today is europe day. every year on this day, we ask ourselves where we are and how to solve our challenges, our problems. but it seems like we've gotten a lot of them this year. we can't find the right solutions, and we can't find unity. and we all know that europe must change urgently, now, because it cannot survive as it is. and while we talk about important issues like migration, like the deep economic crisis, we must not forget about the other projects we have set out to do. and i would like to mention our european monetary union. the companion programs we're working on aren't enough. we must realise that if we want to preserve the european monetary union, all countries will have to make the necessary reforms. it's going to take a lot of effort, but we believe it's worth it. this is a great project that europe must persevere in.
we spent a long time last year in parliament coordinating documents which gave the european commission a clear starting point for how the transatlantic agreement should be negotiated on our behalf, on behalf of the european people. in the last few days, we have seen the news media report on the secret documents, the greenpeace representatives, the other opponents... the commission simply does not come before parliament or inform the general public of what is happening in these talks. unfortunately, the lack of transparency is one of the issues that i believe is the biggest threat to this agreement. i therefore call on the commission to ensure that parliament takes account of all the obstacles and problems we have mentioned, particularly in the areas of food safety, the environment and so on. the commission is also proposing to make the european parliament and the public aware of this and to ensure that europeans are not dependent on non-governmental organisations and secret documents.
in the europe 2020 strategy, which we adopted with the aim of improving the economic situation in the european union, we also adopted a series of measures to help young europeans find their jobs, apprenticeships or further education. in my country, slovenia, employers do not hire new job seekers because they lack work experience. but i wonder how they're going to get this work experience if they don't have the opportunity to engage in the work process at all. of course, we have also made some progress at european union level, the unemployment rate has fallen, but this is not enough. we must therefore accelerate all initiatives to integrate young people into the labour market, the youth employment initiative and a more systematic approach to programme implementation. we must ensure jobs in the long term, not just in the short term for the duration of the programmes. quality internships are very important, apprenticeships, all of which will make it easier to enter the labour market. while mobility within the european union seems to be great, we see that it is not. so we are faced with too much labour on the one hand and too little on the other. in line with all these measures we are already taking, we must of course also support greater mobility.
the youth guarantee is therefore a wonderful instrument which will of course work when the member states adapt their tax and financial legislation in a way that is stimulating for young people and, of course, for employers. and this is the direction we must take if we are to achieve sustainable jobs, if we are to reduce the number of redundant jobs which, unfortunately, are also increasing throughout europe and are putting young people at a disadvantage, especially in planning their future and, of course, in living conditions. i think that when we talk about young people, we have to link this also with the attitude towards the circular economy and, of course, also to the appropriate education system, which must be of quality and therefore responsive to the needs of the market.
first of all, i'd like to say that i'm very pleased that this debate has taken place. especially since we can point to such sweeter problems as the reduction in youth unemployment in recent years, when it has actually decreased by almost a million. i am also pleased that the commission has embarked on a mid-term review of the operation of the guarantee scheme, which will be based on new indicators that will certainly contribute or have an impact on the improvement of the operation of this scheme in the second half of the financial perspective. but i'm not very happy with the discussions, with all the discussions i've heard here. we cannot build the future of young people and their employability by simply putting out fires, by regulation, by states and communities creating new jobs. we must equip them with the right skills, which the economy can then accept, and in doing so we will do the most for young people.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament and of the council on protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the european union. the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, having examined the proposal for a council regulation on codification, decided by consensus that a correction to the second paragraph of article 9 (2) of regulation (ec) no 597/2009 should be published. in the current paragraph, the word 'manufacturer' is deleted and the new paragraph is replaced by the following: 'in this paragraph, one shall be deemed to control the other when the former is in a legal or factual position to restrict or direct the latter. this is a codification of existing texts and not a change in substance, so i had no reservations about supporting the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the european union. the report does not introduce any substantive changes but merely codifies the existing text. in fact, the second paragraph of article 9 has been corrected, deleting the term 'producer'. the consultative group also unanimously concluded that the amendment in question was not of a substantive nature but merely a codification of the existing text.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the european union (codified text). according to the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal in question is merely a codification of existing texts without any substantive changes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the european union. the report on the draft regulation provides for a package of measures which will provide for countervailing duties on certain subsidised imports which have caused material injury or threat of injury to the union industry. i consider that the report explains the objectives of the adoption of the regulation in a credible manner and proposes appropriate solutions.
in writing. ‒ as with the point on protection against subsidised imports from third countries, i also voted in favour of the legislative resolution on protection against dumped imports from countries which are not members of the european union. again, this is a codification of the existing text and does not provide for substantive changes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european union. the report does not introduce any substantive changes but merely codifies the existing text. this is also the conclusion of the consultative group composed of the legal services of the commission, the council and the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european union (codified text). at its meeting, the advisory group examined the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 of 30 november 2009 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european community and concluded unanimously that the proposal merely codifies the existing text without any substantive changes.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european union. i agree with the report that, for reasons of clarity and rationality, the text of the previous regulation should be codified, due to the number of amendments. in the event that imports cause or are likely to cause injury to the eu industry, the competent authorities need an effective legal basis for the imposition of safeguard measures.
in writing. ‒ i also supported the resolution on the conclusion of the partnership and sustainable fisheries agreement between the european union and the republic of liberia, the first of its kind between signatories. liberia has 570 km of coastline on the atlantic ocean and its fishing sector generates 3% of its gross domestic product and can contribute to the further development of the country. liberia's fishing zone, rich in tuna and tuna-like species, is 246 152 km2. the conclusion of the agreement strengthens the cooperation between the european union and liberia, and between the eu and west africa, where important tuna fishing areas are located. the conclusion of the agreement is therefore in the interest of both signatories, with a partnership based on sustainable fishing and the wise exploitation of fisheries resources.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, the eu has signed a number of fisheries partnership agreements and protocols with third countries, under which it provides financial and technical support in exchange for fishing rights in the partner country's exclusive economic zone. this sustainable fisheries partnership agreement is the first to be signed by the eu and the republic of liberia. the agreement is consistent with the objectives of the common fisheries policy and the sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture activities and brings great mutual benefits to both parties. it facilitates, inter alia, a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources and helps to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. the liberian authorities have also provided the commission with the necessary information to enable it to assess the compatibility of the measures with the internal market. the transparency provision is particularly welcome, as the fisheries transparency initiative is only just beginning to take shape. the report reflects my views on sustainable fisheries, which is why i supported it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of liberia and of the implementation protocol thereto. i support the conclusion of an agreement between the eu and liberia which, like other agreements with third countries, will provide financial and technical support in exchange for fishing rights for a large number of fish stocks in the exclusive economic zone of the republic of liberia. in this case, it is the 570 kilometres of atlantic coastline that is the source of fisheries such as tuna and tuna-like species.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of liberia and its implementation protocol. in recent years, the eu has signed a number of fisheries partnership agreements and protocols with third countries. under these agreements, the eu provides financial and technical support in exchange for fishing rights for a large number of fish stocks in the partner country's exclusive economic zone. the new agreement between the eu and liberia deals only with tuna. eu vessels can catch 6,500 tonnes of tuna per year for a total of eur 3,25 million over the next five years. the amount of the financial contribution shall be divided equally between access to fishery resources and support for liberia's sectoral fisheries policy. other elements of the reform are also included, such as the exclusivity clause and the human rights clause, and the principle that no other remote maritime state can enjoy more favourable conditions than the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of liberia and the implementation protocol thereto. i agree with the rapporteur that the agreement enhances cooperation between the union and liberia and promotes a partnership framework within which a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the liberian fishing zone can be developed.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft resolution on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and mauritania in the fisheries sector on fishing opportunities and financial contributions. after lengthy negotiations, the eu and mauritania have reached an agreement for a period of four years. the agreement will allow european fishing vessels to fish in mauritian waters. it is one of the poorest and least developed countries in the world, with as much as 42% of its population living below the poverty line. the fisheries sector is very poorly developed in mauritania, but despite this, it represents 5-10% of its gross domestic product, so there is still a lot of potential for exploitation. i am confident that the conclusion of the agreement will help to achieve this, as it represents a major step forward both in the sustainable development of fisheries and in the financial subsidies to the country. the agreement provides for the employment of 60% of the local population on european trawlers and deep-sea trawlers, in addition to financial commitments.
in writing. ‒ since the first fisheries agreement with mauritania was concluded in 1989, several successive agreements have allowed european vessels to fish in mauritania's waters. the long-running negotiations between the eu and mauritania ended on 10 july 2015 with the initialling of a new protocol allowing eu fishermen to fish in mauritian waters for a period of four years. the protocol represents a major step forward as mauritania has undertaken new commitments in terms of transparency and priority access for the european fleet, which it has not provided in the past. compared with the previous agreement, the eu has committed to a smaller financial contribution to ensure access to the exclusive fishing zone for european vessels. at the same time, sectoral support was increased to improve european support for the launch of the new sectoral strategy for the sustainable development of fishing activities in the country. the protocol also addressed the problem of the level of qualification of mauritian seamen required to be present on european vessels. the commission also undertook to publish all private and public agreements with third countries in order to increase transparency and to give european fleets priority access to its surpluses. for the reasons stated above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol setting out for four years the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the islamic republic of mauritania. the new protocol, which will be valid for four years and has already been initialled by the eu and mauritania, will allow eu fishermen to continue fishing in mauritian waters without any disruption. i welcome the transparency and preferential access for the european fleet that mauritania has committed itself to, because over the years we have seen that mauritania has given preference to foreign fleets for certain fish species, while the european fleet has given it up.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol setting out for four years the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the islamic republic of mauritania. the first fisheries agreement with mauritania was concluded in 1989, and since then several successive agreements have allowed european vessels to fish in mauritania's waters. the current partnership agreement entered into force in 2006 and was renewed in 2012 for a period of two years until the end of 2014. following lengthy negotiations, the european union and mauritania initialled on 10 july 2015 a new protocol allowing eu fishermen to fish in mauritian waters for a period of four years. three-tenths of the population (42.9% of young people) are unemployed. the protocol therefore welcomes the requirement to employ mauritian fishermen (at least 60% of the crew).
in writing. ‒ i voted to ratify the agreement between the eu and mauritania allowing eu fishermen to fish in mauritian waters for a period of four years. it brings a better balance to the financial contribution in relation to the agreed fishing opportunities compared to previous agreements. in return, the eu is offering more support to mauritania's local fisheries, in order to export the model of environmental, economic and social sustainability that it promotes in its fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a cooperation agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part, in the field of the global navigation satellite system (gnss) for civil use.
in writing. ‒ galileo, with its international nature, has encouraged many countries to seek a cooperation agreement with the eu. in march 2005, the republic of korea, a country with significant space technology capabilities, also expressed interest in the agreement. korea, an active user of gps services in various sectors including transport, science and geodesy, has expressed a desire to extend the use of satellite navigation through galileo to other fields. the ratification of the cooperation agreement with korea on the global navigation satellite system will bring about closer cooperation between the eu and korea and will allow the implementation of elements of the european satellite navigation programmes. at the same time, it will open up possibilities for eu cooperation with korea in areas such as standardisation, radio spectrum, trade and the development of the satellite market. that is why i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a cooperation agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part, in the field of the global navigation satellite system (gnss) for civil use. the republic of korea has a high capability in the field of space technology and applications. it also regularly uses satellite navigation services in various sectors. i welcome cooperation with korea in the field of global satellite navigation systems, which will have the greatest impact on the fields of transport, fleet management, science and geodesy.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a cooperation agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part, in the field of the global navigation satellite system (gnss) for civil use. i have taken note of the cooperation agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part, on a global navigation satellite system (gnss) for civil use (11516/2006).
in writing. ‒ having regard to the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy (a8-0065/2016), i voted in favour of the conclusion of a cooperation agreement with korea on a global navigation satellite system (gnss) for civil use.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on new territorial development tools in cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020. the treaty of lisbon recognised territorial cohesion as a fundamental objective in the development of the european union. the european structural and investment funds (esif) frameworks present two new tools for achieving territorial cohesion, namely integrated territorial investment and local community development. the adoption of the report laid the foundations for the implementation of both new tools, both at the implementation level and in the early stages of the implementation of cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020.
in writing. ‒ territorial cohesion is considered a fundamental objective of the european union and is enshrined in the lisbon treaty. accordingly, the new generation of cohesion policy for the 2014-2020 programming period places more emphasis on the use of integrated and local approaches to promote economic, social and territorial cohesion, including the introduction of two new instruments: community-led local development and integrated territorial investment. community-led local development follows a bottom-up approach, meaning that objectives and funded projects are determined on the basis of local community needs rather than imposed at national level. it is crucial that local partners take the lead in the preparation of the territorial development strategy for integrated territorial investments and are fully involved in its management, monitoring and audit. territorial integrated investments, on the other hand, are an instrument that allows for a more flexible definition of the territorial scope and thus the application of a genuinely local approach. the report calls for these instruments to be strengthened and made mandatory, if necessary, for the period after 2020. the report also takes account of the greens' efforts to demand high standards from local actors, and highlights the importance of local ownership, tackling youth unemployment and demographic challenges. i supported the report because of the above.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the new territorial development tools in cohesion policy for 2014-2020: integrated territorial investment and community-led local development. at the level of regional and local actors, we need a commitment to territorial development strategies, a sense of responsibility for them and an appropriate transfer of competences and resources to the lower levels. i support the call to define strategies at the beginning of the implementation process, in cooperation with regional and local actors, in particular at the level of specific and specialised training and technical and financial support, within the framework of an effective partnership between regions, member states and the eu.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on new territorial development tools in cohesion policy for 2014-2020: integrated territorial investment and community-led local development. territorial cohesion is a fundamental objective of the eu, enshrined in the lisbon treaty. community-led local development and integrated territorial investment are innovative cohesion policy instruments, which will be implemented in this form for the first time by some member states, and which can make a significant contribution to achieving economic, social and territorial cohesion, the creation of quality local jobs, sustainable development and the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy objectives.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the new territorial development tools in cohesion policy for 2014-2020: integrated territorial investment and community-led local development. i believe that the new territorial development tools can make a significant contribution to the creation of quality local jobs, sustainable development and the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives. measures taken under these tools should pay particular attention to providing tax and other incentives to promote youth employment and interregional mobility and give priority to vocational training in partnership with training institutions.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a report by my colleague sven giegolde on eu statistics on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment, concerning the delegation of power and the exercise of implementing powers by the commission to adopt certain measures. the proposed amendments aim to provide common information on outgoing and incoming foreign direct investment and related investment income flows, both between individual eu member states and the rest of the world. the regulation also aims to enrich the statistics on foreign direct investment inflows and outflows. that information will complement the existing statistics on foreign direct investment collected under the direct host/investor country approach.
in writing. ‒ the production of reliable statistics on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment is important for monitoring the main features of economic development, such as changes in current accounts and financial flows within and outside the eu. these statistics contribute to ensuring that member states' economic policies are consistent with the eu's broader guidelines and legal requirements, and also provide an important basis for monitoring macroeconomic imbalance processes. the report includes additional legal requirements to increase transparency and disaggregation of balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment, as well as to take advantage of legal innovations such as the newly created register of final beneficiaries. the statistics should also allow for a distinction to be made between direct investment in new projects and direct investment in take-overs that do not increase gross investments in the member states. the report also envisages that the european commission will have to carry out pilot studies if it is to develop a methodology for collecting these statistics within the three-year timeframe envisaged. in short, the report contributes to improving the transparency of eu statistics on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment, which is why i supported it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the regulation on community statistics concerning balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment, as regards the conferral of delegated and implementing powers on the commission to adopt certain measures. the amendments are going in the right direction. i welcome the newly added recital in which we identify community statistics as being essential for sound economic forecasts and informed economic policy decisions. i also welcome the amendment which requires the commission to consult the european central bank on legislative acts in its field of competence.
in writing. ‒ report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 184/2005 on community statistics relating to balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment, as regards the delegation of delegated and implementing powers to the commission to adopt certain measures. regulation (ec) no 184/2005 on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment statistics is part of the common eu framework for monitoring economic developments in individual member states and in the union as a whole. the production of reliable statistics in these areas is particularly important for monitoring key features such as changes in the area of current accounts and financial flows within and outside the eu. these statistics help to ensure that the economic policies of the member states are consistent with the eu's broader guidelines and with the legal requirements stemming from the eu's economic governance framework.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 184/2005 on community statistics relating to balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment, as regards the delegation of delegated and implementing powers to the commission to adopt certain measures. i agree that high-quality and comparable statistics on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment are essential to ensure informed economic policy-making and sound economic forecasting.
in writing. ‒ i also supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on cohesion policy in the eu's mountain regions, in the development of which i was also actively involved as shadow rapporteur for the epp political group. mountain areas cover as much as 30% of the total area of europe and cover some 70 million hectares, so a comprehensive strategy and design for the development of these areas is needed. it is also important to close the backlog at the start of the 2014-2020 cohesion policy, as this is the only way for member states to help themselves through the various funds. new jobs ensure the settlement of these areas. synergies between agriculture, economy, tourism and crafts on the one hand and the preservation of natural heritage, wildlife and water resources on the other are key points for the development of eu mountain regions and the preservation of jobs. the provision of good transport and modern telecommunications infrastructure, which are prerequisites for remote activities and work in these areas, should also be taken into account.
in writing. ‒ the treaty on the functioning of the european union defines mountain as a serious and persistent natural barrier, a concept which is now generally accepted as outdated. mountain regions do present certain challenges, but also development opportunities. the report takes the view that cohesion policy should treat mountain regions as special areas offering specific economic activities, employment opportunities, ecological vulnerability and particular challenges for forestry and agriculture. in relation to tourism development and environmental protection activities, the report stresses the importance of ensuring diversified agricultural production and structuring the food chain in mountain areas, thereby giving farmers greater bargaining power. at the same time, it also includes a requirement for spatial planning in mountain regions, including public participation and strengthening links with the already existing alpine convention. the need to protect emblematic high mountain species at european level, to establish an eu mountain agenda and to take into account the mountain dimension in future eu programmes and policies, in particular in the framework of the european structural and investment funds, is also underlined. as the request to include the link between the water sector and public-private partnership in the report was rejected, and the gender dimension and the environmental dimension, including climate challenges, were reinforced, i also supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on cohesion policy in the eu's mountain regions. mountain regions, which represent a significant proportion of the eu territory, about 30%, are disadvantaged by extreme conditions and remoteness. i support the call on the commission to complete the definition of mountain areas used in the framework of the european agricultural fund for rural development. this will improve coordination between the relevant policies and measures. the definition must be broad and take into account various factors such as altitude, accessibility and slope. the definition should also be sufficiently broad to cover volcanic regions on islands and in the outermost regions.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on cohesion policy in the eu's mountain regions. mountain regions account for a significant proportion of the eu's territory (around 30%). the whole eu depends on mountain ecosystem services. these regions are structurally disadvantaged by extreme conditions and remoteness to such an extent that many mountain regions are facing declining and ageing populations, which can disrupt the natural generation cycle and lead to a decline in social standards and quality of life. this often leads to higher rates of unemployment, social exclusion and urbanisation. mountain regions offer many opportunities to achieve the eu's employment, cohesion and environmental objectives through the sustainable use of their natural resources.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on cohesion policy in the eu's mountain regions. mountain regions, which represent a significant proportion of the eu's territory (approximately 30%), play an important role in the economic, social and sustainable development of the member states and provide a range of ecosystem services. considers that the commission should take into account the fact that the union's financial contribution to the union's macro-financial assistance is limited to eur 3000000000 and that the union's macro-financial assistance is limited to eur 3000000000;
the humanitarian summit is certainly timely, because, as we have heard, there have never been so many people in need of help, so many displaced around the world since world war ii. the solution we are seeking in this case is closely linked to what the council representative said in the introduction: we must root out the reasons for what is happening in the world. in objective, fair politics, politics that puts people first and resolves conflicts peacefully, rather than creating new conflicts and deepening divisions around the world. it is therefore necessary for the european union to demonstrate its values to the world in a big way, to enable people to live well and with dignity where they are born, and in this way to help people in africa, asia and the middle east, and thus also to help europe, which is the biggest destination for these refugees.
dear mrs. mogherini, you have brought something new to this office of yours. you've shown that you're not ashamed to show emotion and sensitivity and compassion. indeed, nations in the middle east show more compassion when it comes to refugees from neighboring nations. but i have to say that it would be right to remember that europe also had more solidarity when it came to refugees from spain, from germany, from the czech republic, from bosnia and herzegovina, from different countries. in short, we accepted those who were like us. but we have a problem when it comes to acknowledging diversity, multiculturalism, different religions, different values. we only know this world as a place of exporting our values, our democracy and so on. i would ask you, mrs mogherini, to show the same sensitivity, the same will and the same energy when it comes to solving problems, political problems. you will certainly get support in this parliament and this is all the more important to stress at a time when we are being told look at the us elections leaders who can bring more turmoil than constructivity to the world.
today, the image of venezuela is created here as a country in poverty, a country in hunger, in fact, a country facing a humanitarian crisis, a country that is almost in a state of war. but the information we get is also different. we would therefore like to hear from the representatives of venezuela here in parliament, so that they can tell us what is really going on there. why do socialist countries get so worked up? maybe it's because there's no such differentiation between the poor and the rich, because education, healthcare, is not yet privatized. the same was said about socialist yugoslavia, but the truth was quite different. maybe that's why it had to be taken down. but venezuela is a sovereign country, no longer a colony. i think we should let the venezuelan people decide for themselves what kind of country they want to live in. that's why he's having an election. and it is up to us, of course, to monitor can whether these elections are fair and just.
thank you, beautiful mrs. mogherini, for the brilliant introduction you gave today, and of course there's nothing to add to it. i'm just saying, it's probably no coincidence that we're having this discussion so late at night. it shows the ignorance of this house to this difficult problem. i'm not going to talk about statistics, my colleagues have already said. i would just like to say that, of course, the home destroyers of palestinian families have a reason for any violent encroachment on foreign property, which is completely unacceptable from the point of view of customary, international and international humanitarian law. we must condemn this practice of quasi-legitimate state terrorism and collective punishment. the demolition of homes is a cynical mockery of human dignity and a flagrant violation of the law that cannot end well - not for israel, not for the palestinians, not for the region as a whole, and not for us in the neighborhood who want peace and recognition for israel and justice for palestine.
on behalf of the ppe group. the security of european citizens is being tested to the utmost since the end of the cold war. there are several reasons for this: among them, we have not invested enough in defence and security. we've fallen into a security vacuum and today we face security threats. this has been recognised by the aggressive russian policy, by the terrorist networks, by all those who compete with the european union in a global market where the position of the european union, the world's largest economic power, is not adequate. in the current delicate security situation, it is of the utmost importance that after three years of negotiations, the european parliament and the council have finally reached an agreement on the european police office. i am pleased that we will be voting today on a new regulation which will give europol more powers to fight terrorism, cyber and organised crime and other more serious criminal phenomena. he will have the ability to form specialized units for rapid intervention. the exchange of information between member states and europol will also be improved. i am also proud of my political group, which ensured that the legal basis for the full operation of the europol unit, including the prevention of terrorist propaganda on the internet, was included in the negotiations. we have therefore strengthened europol, both in terms of staff and finances, and given it powers and a legal framework. and european citizens would say it's time to prove it.
in writing. when we talk about the european police office and criminal prosecutions, we must not forget about respecting and protecting the fundamental rights of eu citizens. close and effective cooperation between the supervisory authorities at member state and european union level is essential for this. good cooperation will help to achieve efficiency and avoid duplication of effort.
on behalf of the s&d group. first of all, of course, i would like to thank the rapporteur and my excellent colleague cecilia. europe has not yet fully recovered from the effects of the economic crisis and the demographic picture remains unchanged. due to complicated and lengthy bureaucratic procedures and modest investments in development, research and education, we lag behind the most developed world in attracting young talent. we're wasting a lot of potential, and they're going somewhere else. the revised rules will make it easier for many young people to live and work in the european union, and will guarantee them more rights, greater mobility, the possibility to work and do research while studying, and the possibility to stay in europe for another year after finishing their studies. their family members will also enjoy more rights under the new law. the fact is, other parts of the world are more successful at attracting young talent these days, and if we don't change that, we're looking at an uncertain future. the revised rules, which we will be voting on at noon, and which i believe have received strong support, are the result of long and arduous negotiations, but we have achieved a great victory. the efforts of the socialists and democrats have ensured that young foreign students, researchers, trainees, volunteers and carers have access to easier and faster procedures for obtaining visas or entry permits, more social or labour rights, and health and legal protection. until now, childminders have often been the victims of exploitation because of a lack of legal protection. after the new furniture, they'll be incorporated into the legal framework. we must put an end to the exploitation of young foreigners once and for all and europe must set an example. i am convinced that these new rules will have a positive impact on cross-border cultural, scientific and social links and contacts between people. only an innovative and more competitive europe will create new jobs and thus be more attractive to young talent from all over the world. despite the significant progress made, i regret that member states will now have the possibility to refuse an application for a visa or entry permit without giving reasons. without this clause, the council did not want to give the green light to the directive. parliament will therefore closely monitor the implementation of the rules in practice and take appropriate action in the event of abuse.
i would like to join my colleagues who have already congratulated mrs wikström on the report on the regulation which is being prepared. in this context, i would like to talk about the mobility of young people who are reopening up. these are new opportunities for attracting talent, human capital to the european union, where they can of course leave their added value or bring their knowledge and skills back to their homelands and contribute to the development of their country. the importance of this regulation lies primarily in its balance. this is not only a matter of harmonising the rules within the european union, which allow young people to live and work better during their study and work-related research mobility, but also allows member states, who have reserved the discretion to reject an application on the basis of individual treatment, to do so. so it satisfies both approaches, both criteria. i would like to stress that this regulation will have an additional impact on better mobility, especially for our population.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a regulation regulating exemptions for merchants. the term 'commodity trader' covers a wide range of actors in the energy and primary products markets. the requirements laid down in the capital requirements regulation and the capital requirements directive apply to both credit institutions and investment firms. the capital requirements regulation exempts merchants engaged in the provision of investment services or activities in relation to financial instruments from the requirements for large exposures and capital requirements respectively. as both exemptions expire at the end of 2017, the commission decided to undertake a single review of the legal framework for merchants and the prudential supervision of investment firms in general, which will ensure the development of a harmonised prudential framework for all types of investment firms. in the absence of a specific credit rating framework that could be established through the review of investment firms by the end of 2017, all requirements of the capital requirements regulation and the capital requirements directive will apply to merchants from the beginning of 2018.
in writing. ‒ articles of the capital requirements regulation exempt merchants from the requirements for large exposures and capital requirements respectively. both exemptions expired on 31 december 2017. this self-derogation clause was initially included in the capital requirements regulation in order to provide regulators with sufficient time to establish a prudential regime adapted to the risk profile of merchants. commodity traders include a wide range of players in the energy and primary products markets. the commission decided to carry out a single review of the relevant arrangements for merchants and the prudential supervision of investment firms in general and to prepare a joint report on the above issues. but because it's a complex project, it won't be finished by the end of this year. therefore, it is unlikely that legislation resulting from this review would be prepared, adopted and implemented before the expiry of the current exemptions, meaning that merchants would be subject to all the requirements of the capital requirements regulation and the capital requirements directive from then on. in order to avoid such a situation, it is appropriate to extend the validity of the existing exemptions provided for in the capital requirements regulation. that is why i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the regulation on exemptions for traders in goods. the exemptions from the capital requirements regulation that exempt merchants from the large exposures and capital requirements will expire at the end of 2017 and therefore require an amendment to the regulation. otherwise, merchants would be subject to all the requirements of the cr and crd. without a conscious (and informed) decision that such treatment is indeed the most appropriate for them, and assuming that the review of investment firms would result in a prudential framework adapted to commodity traders, they would be deprived of a stable regulatory framework.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on cohesion policy in the eu's mountain regions. mountain regions account for a significant proportion of the eu's territory (around 30%). the whole of the eu depends on mountain ecosystem services. these regions are structurally disadvantaged by extreme conditions and remoteness to the extent that many mountain regions are facing declining and ageing populations, which can disrupt the natural generation cycle and lead to a decline in social standards and quality of life. this often leads to higher rates of unemployment, social exclusion and urbanisation. mountain regions offer many opportunities to achieve the eu's employment, cohesion and environmental objectives through the sustainable use of their natural resources.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 575/2013 as regards the exemptions for merchants, because i agree that the existing exemptions from the capital requirements regulation for merchants, which would otherwise have expired on 31 december 2017, should be extended, as otherwise this would have negative consequences for merchants, since they would be subject to all the requirements of the capital requirements regulation and the capital requirements directive as of 1 january 2018.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the motion for a resolution rejecting the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european union agency for law enforcement cooperation (europol). i am very pleased that the european parliament and the council have finally reached an agreement on europol, which gives it more powers to fight terrorism and other forms of organised crime. following the adoption of the proposal for a general data protection regulation and a data protection directive for data processing in the police and judicial sectors, including the new european data protection board to be set up shortly, close and effective cooperation between these bodies at national and european level is essential to ensure the security of citizens of the member states of the european union.
in writing. ‒ terrorism and organised crime call for strong cooperation between police forces in europe, as is particularly evident following recent events in paris and brussels. the exchange of information between member states is crucial to achieving security, with europol playing an important role in supporting member states in the fight against cross-border organised crime. accordingly, europol needs to be further strengthened and its investigative capacity increased. at the same time, there is a need for better parliamentary oversight of its work and a clear legal basis for its operation. only in this way can disproportionate and unnecessary exchange of information, which would be contrary to fundamental human rights, be prevented. despite certain shortcomings, such as the trend towards privatisation of police work, the regulation contributes to better and more effective cross-border cooperation in the fight against organised crime in the eu area between law enforcement and intelligence services of the eu member states. at the same time, it also improves the conditions for eu member states' cooperation with third countries and international organisations, which is particularly important in the fight against organised crime that knows no borders. for the reasons stated above, i support the new regulation and voted against the amendment which proposed rejection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european union agency for law enforcement cooperation (europol) and replacing and repealing council decisions. when we talk about the european police office and criminal law enforcement, we must not forget about respecting and protecting the fundamental rights of eu citizens. close and effective cooperation between the supervisory authorities at member state and european union level is essential for this. good cooperation will help to achieve efficiency and avoid duplication of effort.
in writing. ‒ i rejected the european parliament legislative resolution on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european union agency for law enforcement cooperation (europol) and replacing and repealing council decisions 2009/371/jha, 2009/934/jha, 2009/935/jha, 2009/936/jha and 2009/968/jha (14957/2/2015 c8-0130/2016 2013/0091 ((cod)) as being of key importance for the respect and protection of the fundamental rights of citizens of the union, as ensuring a high level of harmonised data protection covering police and judicial activities is essential. europol's broader powers are aimed at preventing cross-border crime and terrorist threats, which will contribute to increasing the security of european citizens. the member states will contribute to the agency's stated objectives by providing data, while europol will also be able to obtain data from businesses and non-governmental organisations within certain limits.
in writing. ‒ the security of european citizens is undergoing the greatest test since the end of the cold war. it is therefore of the utmost importance that the european parliament and the council finally reach an agreement on europol, which will have more powers in the fight against terrorism, cyber and organised crime and other more serious criminal phenomena. it will have the possibility of setting up specialised rapid intervention units and the exchange of information between the member states and europol will be improved. for the reasons stated above, i support the new regulation and voted against the amendment which proposed rejection.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the motion to reject the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, study, pupil exchange, paid and unpaid training, voluntary service and nanny employment. the council positions contain provisions to clarify and improve the conditions for exchanges of non-eu third-country nationals, trainees, volunteers, apprentices and carers. i had no reason not to accept these provisions. the proposed directive also proposes to simplify the mobility of the above categories of people within the european union, thus further improving their mobility in seeking work in the eu.
in writing. ‒ the revised proposal combined the eu council directive on the conditions of entry of third-country nationals for the purposes of study, training, voluntary service and pupil exchange with the eu council directive on the conditions of entry of third-country nationals for the purposes of research. the entry conditions are also satisfactory for trainees and, conditionally, au pairs, which broadens the legal framework for entry and residence of third-country nationals in the eu. although these conditions do not cover volunteers outside the european voluntary service, this is still a step forward compared to the previous directive. the new conditions would also improve the mobility regime for students and researchers. the first could move by simple notification instead of submitting the entire application, while the second could extend short-term mobility from three months to 180 days. the new legislation, which gives researchers' family members the right to enter the eu, including the right to work and mobility with the researcher, was also welcomed. at the same time, it also enables graduates and researchers to find a job or start their own business after completing their education or research. the renewed proposal thus represents a positive extension of the scope of the rights of the persons mentioned, which is why i support it and voted against the amendment which proposed to reject the council's position.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, study, pupil exchange, paid and unpaid training, voluntary service and au pair work. the european union is not in the best shape at the moment. in addition to all the problems of terrorism and refugees, we still face high unemployment in some countries. in particular, conditions for trainees, students, pupils and volunteers should be improved in the member states. we're providing access with this report, but we're not doing enough to prevent abuse.
in writing. ‒ i rejected the european parliament's legislative resolution on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, study, pupil exchange, paid and unpaid training, voluntary service and au pair work. the european economy is based on knowledge and skills, and the continued growth and development of the latter requires a wide range of knowledge and skills from researchers and students. talented individuals need to be educated, developed and retained in europe. this can meet the needs of individuals as well as those of research institutions and european businesses. the directive allows for simplification and harmonisation of rules across the european union. one of the main achievements is intra-eu mobility, which allows students and researchers to continue their activities in other member states without having to leave the eu and reapply for entry. students and researchers will have access to work, but labour market rules will remain the responsibility of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the revised directive of the european parliament and of the council on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, study, pupil exchange, paid and unpaid training, voluntary work and au pair work is important mainly because it brings about a balance of all interests. the harmonisation of rules within the european union will allow young people to live and work better during their study and work-related research mobility, while allowing member states, who have reserved their discretion, the possibility of rejecting an application on a case-by-case basis and taking into account the specific circumstances of the third-country national, the principle of proportionality and on the basis of evidence or serious and objective reasons. the renewed proposal thus presents new and balanced possibilities for attracting human capital to the european union, which is why i support it and voted against the amendment which proposed to reject the council's position.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a european parliament resolution on speeding up the implementation of cohesion policy. the resolution called on the commission to assess the implementation status of the european structural and investment funds for the period 2014-2020 and to prepare a detailed analysis of the risk of cancellation of commitments, indicating the amounts per member state and an analysis of the payment forecasts. i am convinced that both the commission and the member states, in line with the europe 2020 strategy, must fully exploit the potential of the european structural and investment funds to strengthen social and economic cohesion and reduce development disparities. this would enable all regions to develop competitiveness and encourage investment, including private investment.
in writing. ‒ in some eu countries, cohesion policy is the main source of public investment, with a budget of over eur 350 billion by 2020. the coordinated operation of structural reforms together with economic policy and investment allows for the strengthening of growth and job creation. the resolution raises an interesting question in relation to the risk of the appropriations being cancelled in the third financial year (the so-called n+3 rule), which for the new programming period is precisely 2016. the issue is particularly relevant given the significant delay in the implementation of operational programmes during the current programming period, which has increased the risk of the appropriations being cancelled. i support the request that the european commission help eu member states and their regions to reduce the risk of appropriations being cancelled. i believe that the work of the project group on better implementation of cohesion policy, which has already been set up, is also very helpful in this respect, as it contributes, among other things, to improving the capacity of public administrations in the member states, regions and cities. on the basis of the above, i also supported the resolution on the accelerated implementation of cohesion policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the oral question on the speeding up of the implementation of cohesion policy. i support the call on the commission to assess the state of play of the implementation of the european structural and investment funds for the period 2014-2020, while at the same time preparing a detailed analysis of the risk of cancellation of commitments. cohesion policy investments must be coordinated and harmonised with other european union policies. this is the only way to move closer to the europe 2020 goals. the delay in the last two years since the start of the implementation of cohesion policy should encourage us to take measures to accelerate the implementation of cohesion policy.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on cohesion policy in the eu's mountain regions. mountain regions account for a significant proportion of the eu's territory (around 30%). the whole of the eu depends on mountain ecosystem services. these regions are structurally disadvantaged by extreme conditions and remoteness to the extent that many mountain regions are facing declining and ageing populations, which can disrupt the natural generation cycle and lead to a decline in social standards and quality of life. this often leads to higher rates of unemployment, social exclusion and urbanisation. mountain regions offer many opportunities to achieve the eu's employment, cohesion and environmental objectives through the sustainable use of their natural resources.
in writing. ‒ with a budget of over eur 350 billion by 2020, the cohesion policy is the main investment and development policy covering all eu regions. it is therefore necessary to implement responsibly, prudently and effectively measures to promote appropriate structural reforms, as well as investment-friendly policies and the fight against fraud, in line with the objectives of territorial cohesion, sustainable growth and employment. i supported the report on the accelerated implementation of cohesion policy because i believe that it gives a balanced assessment of the (acceleration) of the implementation of cohesion policy.
the european asylum policy is not working. it doesn't work for the member states, it doesn't work for asylum seekers. the proposed package of measures and the proposed amendments to the dublin system are a step in the right direction, but are not ambitious enough. it's like trying to heal a superficial wound, treat the symptoms, and forget about the underlying disease. i fear that the proposed reform will not prevent the emergence of situations similar to those we are witnessing in greece today. we need a truly common european asylum system based on fairness and solidarity. the burden cannot and must not be borne only by the countries with external borders. mechanisms for action against non-cooperating states are urgently needed. but they're not enough. and it will not be enough until we realise that this is a common european problem and that the only real solution is to work together. dialogue with citizens is also of paramount importance. if we want a functioning and secure environment at our borders and in our countries, if we want to protect the fundamental rights of everyone, we need better and more comprehensive reform. and in this, my friends, it is no longer a question of whether we can, but whether we will. yes, we do, and we've known for too long.
i welcome the commission's proposal to establish a collective security mechanism. this is a real set of measures that should have been taken already when the dublin regulation was dissolved. let me make a few comments. first, the fact is that reforming the asylum system alone will not solve the migration crisis. the new asylum system is only one of the key elements of the comprehensive approach to the crisis, with the main pillars being the protection of the external borders and the effective and rapid return of migrants to their countries of origin. if these principles had been followed last year, only a third of the newcomers who are now here would have entered europe. secondly, the european commission has retained the first country or country of entry rule in its proposal, but has added a new corrective fairness mechanism to ensure that, in the event of a disproportionate number of asylum applications, a member state on the so-called first front, to which my country slovenia belongs, would not be left to its own devices. that's the right thing to do. i also welcome the view that asylum seekers do not have the right to choose their own country. when it's life or death, all that matters is that the country you're entering is safe. in this context, it is of the utmost importance to prevent the so-called secondary migration of refugees... (interruption due to time limit).
asylum reforms are a message for the future of europe. it will be a community based on values, solidarity, cooperation, respect for human rights and human dignity, or we will be locked inside fences and borders and wonder who will close the door to us in the next crisis. the question is whether we are really threatened by refugees, or whether we may be more concerned about our own response to the crisis and our inability to respond effectively. asylum reform is therefore no longer just a political and legal, and obviously also a mathematical, question and challenge, but it also remains, of course, a civilizational test of europe's future.
on behalf of the ppe group. i join all those who welcome the european commission's efforts to re-establish the schengen system. i am even convinced that this is one of the key tasks of the european union in the months to the end of the year. clearly, the more the external borders are 'schengen', the more freedom there will be within. the creation of schengen in the 1980s was one of the greatest experiments in the union's history, but it can only succeed if there is a suitable climate in the area, in particular trust and security. today we know the economic benefits of the schengen system. but we also know that failure would cost us tens of billions of euros a year. respected. i am convinced that the end of schengen could also mean the end of the european union, which was founded at the height of the second world war with the aim of maintaining a lasting peace. today, neither the european union nor peace is a given. that is why we must work hard every day to preserve them. protectionism is also being revived in europe, under the influence of various destabilising factors. protectionism is a thing! in the first half of the 20th century, a doctrine that was initially very innocent led directly to two world wars, two great plagues. let history be our teacher. let us work on concepts that will consolidate the values on which the union is founded. a fully functioning schengen system is one of them.
on behalf of the s&d group. the fact is that the european schengen system has been put at risk by the migrant crisis. in view of the recent developments, coreper has today adopted the european commission's proposal to extend border controls at internal schengen borders for a further six months. it is true that in some areas these boundaries are still fragile and that the situation is not yet fully and definitively stabilised. but the situation is far from alarming. it seems more likely that the reasons for this extension are questionable. we cannot accept the principle of extending internal controls simply 'to stock' and at the discretion of individual members. this creates additional internal tension, also between the new and old members of the union, which we absolutely do not need at this moment. nor do we need to exploit border control changes for political campaigning, as austria recently did by sending in the military to an otherwise empty border crossing. the creation of such a frightening situation and the seeming fight against an invisible enemy send a very bad signal to the citizens of europe. however, we must insist that the commission should report as soon as possible after the introduction of the extension of internal border controls on whether and to what extent this measure is proportionate. it should also do so in the light of the fact that the introduction of border controls in some member states has paralysed the transport and logistics sector across europe and that the consequences of these controls will generate between eur 5 and 18 billion in direct costs annually, in particular in road and freight transport, as well as in tourism and cross-border mobility. instead of isolating member states - which will not prevent internal terrorist attacks by european citizens - we must focus our forces and resources on ensuring the effective functioning of the schengen external border and on helping countries that still face high migratory pressures.
on behalf of the s&d group. as a former rapporteur on visa liberalisation for the western balkans, i am still aware of the enormous importance of visa-free travel for people, for young people, for inter-relations, for the development of the region. i was able to see how very tangible the visa abolition measure is, how strongly, directly and in two directions it affects political and social dynamics. that is why i have considerable reservations about supporting visa-free travel to turkey at this time. whatever conditions, whether economic or political, we put in place at any given time in the european union are not designed to develop the imagination of politicians, but are built on the basis of half a century of integration and are designed to advance and develop for the common good. the european union's attitude towards turkey is very important at this moment in order to resolve the migration crisis, but this does not in itself mean that turkey is granted benefits without all the conditions being fulfilled. turkey has been subject to 72 visa waiver measures, which it has not yet fully implemented. this is a simple fact that we cannot and should not ignore. i am concerned, for example, that the - in my view very crucial - counter-terrorism and data protection legislation is not being met. turkey will have to address these and the remaining unresolved areas very seriously before we are able and willing to initiate the legislative procedure in the committee responsible. visa waiver is a process that requires not only a strong commitment in principle to meet the criteria, but also to actually meet them. we simply cannot allow exceptions, because that would create a boomerang effect and a snowball effect that would eventually bury us all.
first of all, congratulations to the rapporteur, of course, on a very well done job, and let me start by saying that i have been dealing with taxation for a very long time and that i have always been a champion of fair and moderate taxation. i don't think taxes should be so high as to deter companies from creating. but on the other hand, we can't allow tax evasion, aggressive tax planning and tax avoidance. so this experiment, and the commission and us here together, to make the tax field more transparent is a step in the right direction. but let me conclude by saying that i would be even more ambitious. i checked in my country, slovenia, how many allies we would have if the proposed threshold was met: not even ten companies would be obliged to report. so i think we could be even more ambitious going forward.
in writing. i believe that the labelling of milk and meat products with the country of origin is extremely important. mandatory labelling would give consumers greater confidence in food products. at the same time, it would make the food supply more transparent. the european commission must take decisive action in this area. food coming from the eu market, especially from smaller countries like slovenia, is considered to be of higher quality. this is another way of ensuring that we are competitive.
the area of work-life balance is one of those areas where i think there is the biggest gap between what we say and what we write and what actually happens in practice. so, of course, i encourage that we talk about parental leave and that we arrange parental leave in a way that we all benefit from it, especially young families, of course. of course, it is very important that the family is as economically independent as possible during this period of parental leave, but i think, of course, that 100% compensation is a rather large sum. but let me conclude by saying that what we are talking about today and what many countries want, in slovenia, in my country, we already have. we have long maternity leave, maternity leave, parental leave and, of course, paternity leave.
in writing. ‒ i also supported the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation. the challenge posed by cross-border tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and harmful tax competition has increased significantly in the eu and is also a major concern at the global level. the commission notes that the tax advisor's assessment of the taxable base of luxopco is based on the assumption that luxscs is a holding company. we simply have to insist that taxes are paid in the country where the profits are made. the proposed directive strengthens the tools and mechanisms established by council directive 2011/16/eu and i was happy to support it.
in writing. ‒ crossborder tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and harmful tax competition are increasingly challenging for the eu. we need more transparency on tax information to prevent aggressive tax planning, in particular by introducing reporting for multinational groups by individual countries. the current legal framework does not yet require member states to provide reports to other eu member states, which would require increased transparency. multinationals based or operating in the eu with total consolidated revenues of eur 750 million or more will be required to report on a country-by-country basis. the competent authority of the member state receiving this report shall, by automatic exchange, forward it to all other member states in which one or more entities within a multinational group are resident for tax purposes or taxable in respect of activities carried out through a permanent establishment of the group. the greens were critical of the limitation of the reporting obligations to the largest companies generating more than eur 750 million in annual revenue, as the commission has thus significantly reduced the volume of companies covered by the measures. although our proposals to lower this threshold were not accepted, it is still a step forward compared to the previous situation, and i supported the report at the meeting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council directive amending the directive on the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation. i support the amendment of the directive which, inter alia, with regard to the use of aggressive tax planning practices by multinational companies, which are not available to domestic companies, emphasises that in addition to the significant harm to smes, it also leads to distortions and irregularities in the functioning of the internal market and to distortions of competition to the detriment of smes. i also welcome the proposal for an amendment to the directive which adds that it is essential for the eu to design tax rules in such a way that they do not jeopardise growth or investment, do not put union companies at a competitive disadvantage and do not increase the risk of double taxation of companies.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation, as it represents a positive step towards combating aggressive tax planning systems. in the future, further safeguards will need to be adopted to ensure that competition in the single market is not distorted by favourable national tax deals with multinationals. the proposal is an important step in the fight against unfair tax practices in eu countries, as it aims to increase transparency and reduce harmful tax competition. the european commission must have full access to the information exchanged between the tax authorities of the member states in order to assess whether their tax practices comply with european rules.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, the challenge posed by tax fraud, tax avoidance and tax evasion has increased significantly and is a major concern for the union and globally. i supported the report as i agree that automatic exchange of data is an important tool for ensuring a future european and international standard of transparency and exchange of data in tax matters. however, i believe that it is essential for the union that tax rules are designed in such a way that they do not jeopardise growth or investment, do not put union companies at a competitive disadvantage and do not increase the risk of double taxation of companies, and should also minimise their costs and administrative burden.
in writing. ‒ last year, a study was carried out in brussels, including in restaurants within the european institutions, on the appropriateness of the labelling of fish dishes. the international non-governmental organization oceana used dna testing to identify fish prepared in restaurants and to compare the findings with claims made by vendors about the dishes served. in more than 30 percent of the dishes analysed, the claims made by the vendors regarding the fish used in the preparation of the dish did not correspond to the results of the dna tests. ngos have reached similar conclusions elsewhere. although regulation (eu) no 1169/2011 contains a provision on consumer information on food, including sales in restaurants, member states delegate their responsibility for requiring food providers to comply with the provision appropriately. i believe that the debate on the traceability of fishery and aquaculture products in restaurants and retail sales would contribute to ensuring proper labelling in restaurants in the future, which is why i supported the resolution at the meeting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the question for oral answer on the traceability of fishery and aquaculture products in restaurants and retail outlets. some studies indicate that there is a significant prevalence of incorrect labelling of fishery products sold on the eu market, including in restaurants of eu institutions, in breach of eu regulations, including the rules of the common fisheries policy, which may be considered a criminal offence under national law. i support stronger controls by member states and an effective fight against fraud.
in writing. ‒ motions for resolutions - i supported the traceability of fishery and aquaculture products in restaurants and retail outlets, as there is a need for greater transparency and traceability in the labelling of fishery and aquaculture products in restaurants and retail outlets. 70% of fishery and aquaculture products on the european market are imported, so it is important that they meet the same standards as european products. the european people's party has for many years been advocating a single european food label that would ensure respect for environmental, social and health standards.
in writing. ‒ the eu is the world's largest seafood market, backed by products from its fishing sector and imports from third countries. however, various studies have found that intentional and fraudulent mislabelling of fishery products sold on the eu market is frequent. i therefore voted in favour of a european parliament resolution on the traceability of fishery and aquaculture products in restaurants and retail outlets and the introduction of a reliable traceability system from landing to consumption, in order to ensure consumer confidence and consequently reduce dependence on imported fishery and aquaculture products, thereby strengthening the eu market.
in writing. ‒ china is not a classical market economy, and i therefore supported the motion for a resolution on eu-china trade relations and market economy status, which points to shortcomings in china's fulfilment of the conditions for acquiring market economy status. as long as china does not meet the five criteria set by the eu to define market economies, the non-standard methodology for establishing price comparability should be used for the anti-dumping investigations of chinese imports. the commission must take due account of the concerns expressed by our members about the industrial sector in the eu and ensure the protection of european jobs, the environment, standards and sustainable economic growth. the consequences of the chinese overcapacity are already manifested in the detrimental effect on the eu steel industry, which already has visible social consequences. but i will not oppose the granting of market economy status to china when the conditions are met and when it does not pose such a high risk to the european economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on china's market economy status. the european parliament must play a key role and its role must not be undermined. the strategic partnership between the european union and china must be equal and fair and based on fair trade relations. it should also aim at improving standards in the field of human and labour rights.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on china's market economy status, as china does not yet meet the european union's conditions for obtaining market economy status. the european commission must listen to the concerns of eu industry and trade unions about the potential consequences for the environment, jobs and economic growth of china's market economy status. at the same time, we must not forget the importance of our partnership with china, the eu's second largest trading partner with a daily trade volume of over €1 billion.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's resolution on the status of china as a market economy. china is the eu's second largest trading partner, with daily trade flows between them well in excess of eur 1 billion. china's overproduction already has major social, economic and environmental consequences in the eu. i therefore believe that a comprehensive reform of the eu's trade defence instruments is urgently needed, which fully respects wto rules and ensures that european industry is placed on a level playing field with china and other trading partners.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the follow-up to and review of the 2030 agenda. the 2030 agenda for sustainable development establishes a global framework for eradicating poverty and achieving sustainable development by 2030, and builds on the millennium development goals adopted in 2000. it is the first global agreement to set out a universal and comprehensive plan of action and includes an ambitious set of 17 overarching sustainable development goals. the agenda sets out clearly the guidelines for sustainable development based on peace and justice. i would also point out that the eu is one of the communities of un member states that adheres quite consistently to the agenda's guidelines - after all, the eu is the world's largest donor of humanitarian aid. unfortunately, this cannot be said for some other, more developed, un member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution at the end of the debate on the council and commission statements on the follow-up to and review of the 2030 agenda. the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals commit the international community to eradicating poverty and redefine and update our development strategies for the next 15 years. i support the call for the foreign affairs council to adopt a common position of the european union, in line with parliament's position, on the next steps and the current state of play of the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals. this is essential for the eu's credibility and leadership.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the next steps and state of play of the 2030 agenda and the sdgs, as the proposed package of 230 sdg indicators is a good starting point and a solid framework for the next steps and review of progress towards the 17 sdgs. the focus is on the international commitment to eradicate poverty, redefine and update our development strategies for the next 15 years and deliver results.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the 2030 agenda, which sets out a global framework for eradicating poverty and achieving sustainable development by 2030, and builds on the millennium development goals adopted in 2000. it is the first global agreement to set out a universal and comprehensive plan of action, based on a global partnership involving action by governments and stakeholders at all levels. the european union has played a leading role in this process from the outset, as by far the world's largest donor of development aid. i believe that the new eu sustainable development strategy and its related implementing measures should be widely consulted by all stakeholders, including national parliaments, local authorities and civil society, on the basis of an inclusive process.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance for certain foods. according to a 2013 eurobarometer survey, 84% of consumers believe that the country of origin should be indicated on milk, whether it is liquid milk or dairy products. a commission report of 17 december 2013 showed that 90% of consumers want to know the origin of processed meat in food. the resolution welcomes the eurobarometer findings and calls for mandatory origin labelling of meat other than beef, pig, sheep, goat or poultry meat, milk, milk used as an ingredient in dairy products, unprocessed foods, single ingredient products and ingredients representing more than 50% of a food. the commission has also proposed that the eu should be able to provide the union with a comprehensive list of the countries that are eligible for the scheme. i hope that this time the commission will take our warning and the consumer's warning seriously.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has already adopted several resolutions on the issue of the indication of the country of origin of foodstuffs. for example, in its resolution on meat in processed foods adopted on 11 february 2015, parliament called on the european commission to prepare a legislative proposal to introduce mandatory indication of the country of origin of meat in processed foods. although this would ensure greater transparency in the food chain and also improve the information of european consumers, the european commission has not yet made such a proposal. the resolution calls on the commission to make the indication of the country of origin or place of provenance compulsory for all types of milk, milk products and meat products for human consumption, which is a very important requirement. it also includes an invitation to the commission to submit legislative proposals to make the indication of the origin of meat in processed foods compulsory. the resolution also stresses that the labelling of origin is not enough in itself, but that a stronger approach to monitoring and enforcement of the law and to introducing stricter penalties for infringers is also needed. i agree that the european commission should draw up legislative proposals for the labelling of food origin, which would also restore consumer confidence in food, and i therefore supported the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution on the oral question on the mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance for certain foods. the motion for a resolution is populist and therefore i could not support it. it also claims, inter alia, that the mandatory indication of the origin of milk sold as such or used as an ingredient in milk products is a useful measure to protect the quality of milk products and to combat food fraud, which is absolutely not true. the horse meat affair made this clear, as the meat had markings, but it was a fraudulent marking.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament resolution of 12 may 2016 on the mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance for certain foods (2016/2583 ((rsp)). mandatory labelling would give consumers greater confidence in food products and at the same time make the food supply more transparent. the country of origin labels could mean more competitiveness for slovenian suppliers on the eu market, as our products are considered to be of higher quality.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the resolution calling on the commission to make the indication of the country of origin or place of provenance compulsory for all types of milk, milk products and meat products for consumption, and to submit legislative proposals to make the indication of the origin of meat in processed foods compulsory. i think that the resolution fails to take account of some important aspects. the introduction of compulsory designation of origin could lead to the renationalisation of the european internal market. it also ignores the fact that the higher price due to the additional designation of origin imposes an additional financial burden on farmers and poorer households.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a european parliament resolution on the application of council directive 2010/18/eu of 8 march 2010 implementing the revised framework agreement on parental leave concluded between the confederation of european large enterprises (businesseurope), the european association of craftsmen and small businesses (ueapme), the european association of enterprises and employees in public services (ceep) and the european trade union confederation (etuc). the europe 2020 strategy sets the target of 75% employment rate for both sexes. this target has already been reached for men, while there is a strong likelihood that for women, where the employment rate is currently 63.5%, the target will most likely not be met by 2020. the agreement adopted therefore calls for the adoption of comprehensive measures to increase the participation of women in the labour market, in particular through a package of policies to equally distribute family and household activities, child rearing and care for other dependants between men and women. i would also mention that slovenia is at the top of the european ranking in terms of maternity and parental leave, due to the length of leave and the balanced distribution between the sexes.
in writing. ‒ the european union has adopted two pieces of legislation on family leave in recent decades, namely on maternity and parental leave, which are relatively old and adopted on a different legal basis. the report sends a clear message to the european commission and the eu member states to step up their efforts to further improve the conditions for parental leave. workers on parental leave should be entitled to adequate financial compensation and should be supported in their return to the labour market. although specific support is provided for paternity leave, it would make more sense to make parental leave rights non-transferable. i believe that the eu should develop a comprehensive package of measures on parental leave in the coming months, as a well-regulated parental leave would contribute to the work-life balance of workers. the report pays particular attention to the link between parental leave and women's labour market participation, as well as to paternity leave and its lack of use. such a report is required by an eu directive introducing a mandatory two-week paternity leave. although the report on the application of council directive 2010/18/eu does not call for a revision of the maternity leave directive, i believe it is a step in the right direction and that is why i supported it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the application of the council directive of 8 march 2010 implementing the revised framework agreement on parental leave concluded between businesseurope, ueapme, ceep and etuc and repealing directive 96/34/ec. the transposition of provisions adopted in different forms in the member states must be carried out in full respect of the current legislation in the field of collective bargaining between the social partners. since the commission has withdrawn its proposal to amend the maternity leave directive, i support the call for it to re-formulate an ambitious proposal, respecting the principle of subsidiarity, which will actually allow for a better reconciliation of work and private life.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament resolution of 12 may 2016 on the application of council directive 2010/18/eu of 8 march 2010 implementing the revised framework agreement on parental leave concluded between businesseurope, ueapme, ceep and etuc and repealing directive 96/34/ec. within the eu, there are wide differences in parental leave, notably in terms of who is entitled to it. more european commission monitoring is needed on the implementation of the rules, with a focus on gender non-discrimination in the right to parental leave. member states should ensure that the right to parental leave is accessible to all, while encouraging fathers to exercise this right as well. a proposal was also made to extend unpaid parental leave from 4 months to 6 months.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the revised framework agreement on parental leave, which stresses that the reconciliation of work and private life is a fundamental right of the individual and must be taken into account in the development of labour legislation. eurostat data for 2010 show that 3 518 600 people took parental leave, of whom only 94 800 (2.7%) were men. the gender gap in employment, according to eurofound research, represents a serious loss for the european economy, amounting to approximately eur 370 billion in 2013. the european commission, together with the member states, should take specific measures for the new organisation of work with more flexible models. these measures would help to reduce discrimination against women and enable them to enter and remain in the labour market and to return to it without economic and social pressure.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the implementation of the directive on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and the protection of its victims in the context of gender equality, as it provides for better protection of victims of trafficking in human beings and reduces the opportunities for potential victims. there is insufficient attention to trafficking in certain vulnerable groups such as young people, the homeless, children and the disabled. this is especially true in the face of the current refugee crisis and the alarming number of missing children in europe. therefore, data collection needs to be improved in order to identify more victims from these groups and to develop best practices in addressing their specific needs. the eu institutions must closely assess the implementation of eu law in the member states and take further legislative or other action as necessary to improve efforts to combat trafficking in human beings.
in writing. ‒ trafficking in human beings constitutes a violation of fundamental human rights as enshrined in article 5 of the eu charter of fundamental rights and a violation of the personal integrity of victims, and a serious form of organised crime that threatens the rule of law. although the victims can be of different genders and ages, statistics clearly show that the majority (80%) of victims are women and girls from central and eastern europe. directive 2011/36/eu on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and protecting its victims has established a legal framework for more effective prosecution of traffickers in human beings. the directive calls on member states to integrate the gender dimension into their anti-trafficking initiatives and to provide assistance and support to victims on a case-by-case basis. the report on the directive highlights the inadequate reporting on trafficking in human beings, which indicates inadequate implementation and a lack of political will. the report further calls on member states to increase cooperation in the area of trafficking in human beings, including the identification of potential victims, and highlights the role of eu agencies in the early identification of victims at the borders of the european union. i believe that the report contributes to a strengthened fight against trafficking in human beings, and i have therefore supported it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the directive on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and protecting its victims from the point of view of gender equality. according to the eurostat report on trafficking in human beings, women and girls represent 80% of recorded victims of trafficking in human beings. the worrying figures confirm the thesis that traffickers target the most vulnerable groups of people, who in most cases face a difficult socioeconomic situation. if we are to make a step forward in strengthening the prosecution of organised crime networks that profit from trafficking in human beings, we need to improve the cooperation of the institutions of the european union and the member states. i support strengthening the prosecution of trafficking in human beings in the member states, but this is not enough. in addition to repressive measures, we also need prevention, assistance and protection for victims, training of professionals who deal with these issues and, of course, good crossborder cooperation not only with the member states but also with countries outside the european union. as a society, we must have zero tolerance for human trafficking.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law (rule 135) as eu countries need to make progress in protecting victims of trafficking in human beings, while taking measures to prevent, assist and support victims, especially women. in order to assist victims, it is necessary to ensure that the judiciary, the health system and social services are adequately equipped to detect victims at an early stage and to provide them with follow-up care.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report because i believe it highlights the key problems in preventing trafficking in human beings. it points out that the differences in the laws of the member states facilitate the activities of organised crime, as the risk of prosecution is still too low and the penalties to deter this crime are still insufficient compared to the high profits that can be made. identifying victims, who can be found in a variety of legal and illegal activities, remains one of the most difficult aspects of preventing trafficking in human beings. this requires enhanced cooperation between europol and national law enforcement authorities, additional training for them, the establishment of appropriate support for victims and awareness-raising among the general public about all new forms of trafficking in human beings.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members very much for this discussion. it is always very important that that we hold it and it is also inspiring for the commission, both for myself and my colleagues. you are right that the flow of data from the european union to the united states is really massive. we needed to come forward soon with the new system which will protect the data of european citizens, not because of big companies which have this data flow as a basis for their business, but, as has been mentioned here several times, it was also in the interests of european small and medium—sized enterprises, for which it was a real disaster that they appeared in legal uncertainty. this is just the circumstance which we had to take into account when we worked on this issue after the court ruling – and also before, of course. we needed strong assurances from our american counterparts. we needed to achieve legal certainty and to put an end to uncertainties where the companies were in a very difficult situation. during the negotiations i called our situation and the way we wanted to conclude these negotiations ‘trust and check’. we need to have elementary trust towards our american partners that they will comply with their own laws and that they will do what they have committed themselves to in the official letters signed at the highest possible level. i will share with you today that i cannot say that that privacy shield, as a mechanism to protect eu citizens’ data in the united states, is perfect. it cannot be perfect and i will never be totally satisfied with it, because there were objective reasons why we could not achieve more. one is the matter of the american legal order, which mr albrecht very rightly pointed out here. we do not have any power to change legislation in the united states, but we will keep monitoring developments in this field in the united states and we have expressed many times our conviction that the data will be better protected in america if they have the proper data protection law. we cannot do much more. the second objective, where we could not do more, is access to data for national security purposes. look at the situation in europe. here the commission and the european union does not have any power to ask the secret services to be more transparent and to inform people whether they are using their data or not. not even the member states can do that. certainly we wanted a similar thing when we negotiated the conditions in the united states. so these were our limits. i must say very openly that we are not fully satisfied, but we are satisfied in the sense that we achieved the maximum which was possible. but what is more important is that we must not be satisfied for the future. satisfaction must not be our leading principle for the years to come, because the commission has committed itself – i have committed myself and my colleagues – to monitor on a continuous basis what is happening in the united states. we will do it in a very transparent way through the annual reviews, where we expect all who are to contribute to input the trustworthy data showing the illustration of the situation as it stands, both in the united states and in the european union. i think that this annual review and the very strong suspension clause is quite a strong safeguard and strong measure. i am convinced that we do not need any sunset clause, as has been proposed here. mrs sophie in 't veld is absolutely right that the schrems ruling helped us. i am sorry we waited for it from the moment when we knew that this has been lodged at the court, because we were already convinced before the ruling that the decision would give us proper arguments and proper benchmarks, which will help us negotiate this stronger position. i must say that it helped in the negotiations and we very precisely took article by article in the schrems ruling and we renegotiated in a very tough way with the american partners, referring to the court decision. i cannot be sure that the new court ruling will not be as strict as the previous one, but i am confident that we tailored the privacy shield system on the requirement of the court. so again, we did our best. on the umbrella agreement, i do not know about a situation where we would keep some something secret. there were many written questions, which we answered, to the members of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe). i would like to ask you again not only for your support for the privacy shield but also for the umbrella agreement because, as i said in my opening speech, this is a real improvement in the protection of data in the exchange between law enforcement authorities. we should take into very serious consideration that this is also about the data of witnesses and victims of criminal offences, and this plays an important role in the strengthening of cooperation between the eu and the us in criminal justice and security matters, because we all know that the security situation is worsening and that we will have to do everything we can to have better, swifter and safer cooperation between the law enforcement authorities in the united states and the european union. so i would like to ask you again for your support.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, ladies and gentlemen. first of all, thank you very much for this debate, and thank you to the commission for your clarification about the privacy shield and the further planning. i think this debate makes clear that smooth data flows can never mean uncontrolled and unchecked data flows. the basis of data flows should always be the trust of our citizens that the data are being used in a just and prudent way both in europe and the united states. and if a citizen has the feeling that this is not the case, he or she should be able to object to this use. at the same time we know – and i think that many members have expressed this today – the enormous importance of smooth data flows for governments, companies and american and european citizens, who are reaping the benefits of this. it means companies are being enabled to operate more effectively and efficiently on the european and american side of the atlantic, and therefore we are talking about a very important issue. it also means we will be able to fight crime more effectively and increase the security of both our continents. so we have to see to what extent this can all benefit us, and i think the proposal that has been made is therefore so important. first, on the umbrella agreement. i think – and i refer to many questions that were asked on this – it is important to say that the agreement itself does not constitute a legal basis for the transfer of personal data, it only supplements other agreements with a common set of data protection safeguards. i think that is very important. finally, as you know, the agreement can be suspended in cases where the parties do not live up to it. so that is important. a few questions were raised on the ombudsperson. i think also here we have to underline the fact that the ombudsperson is an additional mechanism compared to other systems. so, in itself, it is not sufficient legal protection. it will not replace more substantive forms of legal protection, and i believe that it is a step forward that the united states has been willing to create this mechanism and trust that the handling of complaints submitted will be conducted in a proper manner. i would like to point out that the ombudsperson does not fulfil its position in isolation but, as stated in annex iii, works in cooperation with the internal regulators of the agencies who will need to provide information and answer questions. i would say that also many eu member states provide for an ombudsperson-type oversight on intelligence activities in our countries. i think, correctly, it was pointed out that the arrest was, if you wish, a catalyst for something that is, i think, a very improved deal. the court was important; it reminded us that an essentially equivalent level of data protection in a third country can only be met if government access to the third country meets the standards of necessity and proportionality. if a third country allows for massive and indiscriminate collection of data, the standards are not met, and in this case the representations by the various us government officials clearly indicated that the us has adopted laws and policies combined with a system of oversight and redress possibilities in order to avoid the massive and indiscriminate collection of data. the main rule is: targeted collection of data, bulk collection, is secondary, and bulk collection, if based on a proper legal standard and with sufficient safeguards to protect the rights and interests of data subjects, is acceptable, since it is not massive and indiscriminate collection of data. then about the ‘sunset clause, i do not want to repeat; i agree with what has been said by the commissioner. i know it is a big point of discussion also in your parliament. i agree in this case with mr voss that we do not need such a sunset clause, since there is a strong element of annual review and monitoring foreseen in the agreement. finally, i would say that we deem that the privacy shield and the umbrella agreement offer the safeguards needed to justify our citizens’ trust. we hope, therefore, also, that the european parliament will consider all the positive aspects. it is also true here to say that the better is the enemy of the good. it is important that we can now make progress on this; it is important for our citizens and our businesses – eu citizens in particular – when consent is given, hopefully to the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. after the court of justice of the european union declared the safe harbor agreement invalid, the european commission proposed a new regime for data flows between the us and the eu, called the privacy shield. the privacy shield is not intended to be a comprehensive, exhaustive, or exhaustive list of the rights and obligations of the eu and its member states. the commission has also concluded that the contested tax ruling is not in line with the arm's length principle. the agreement also gives comparative advantage to us companies over european companies due to lower requirements compared to eu data protection law. i also believe that there is a possibility that the agreement will be declared invalid in the future, as happened in the case of the safe harbour agreement. in view of all the above, it seems to me reasonable to introduce a time-limit clause which would require the renegotiation and signature of the agreement after a few years, thus allowing for its improvement.
on behalf of the ppe group. protecting citizens from health risks is one of the three strategic objectives of the european union's health policy, and we must put hormonal disruptors at the centre of prevention. in the area of health, where the link can be brought much closer to the citizen, only consistent action by the commission is necessary and admissible. the increased incidence of chronic diseases, including hormone-related cancers such as breast and prostate cancer, and the increase in diabetes and reproductive problems, require action. even more so because the hormonal disruptors we associate with all of these have a high potential for irreversible effects, and the cost of treatment is estimated at a high 150 billion euros a year. in view of the fact that health boxes are already limited for several reasons, preventive action at the level of the federation is necessary and also economically justified. at yesterday's meeting of the working party on health, we again heard scientific confirmation of the harmfulness of certain chemical substances which are not used only in agriculture, all the more so if they are combined with each other or if exposure is prolonged. i therefore strongly regret the length of the proceedings in this case, which was also condemned by the european court. however, i believe that the time has been well spent and well used in bringing together the different points of view in the formulation of the criteria and that you, commissioner, have played an active role in this. preventive action is of course key to more health and sustainable health systems, and in these circumstances, what is needed above all is an active commission. i therefore expect you to reject the motion of censure by submitting the long-awaited criteria within the announced deadline, which is by the summer. and thank you for the answer, which you've already given.
in writing. energy poverty has become an increasing threat to our citizens in recent years. to combat it, we must provide access to affordable and safe energy. it is important to support the development of indigenous energy sources, which will increase the competitiveness of the eu economy. i believe that member states should do more to find a solution to energy independence. they should invest more in self-generated energy and in the development of alternative, renewable energy technologies. in addition, we must not forget the renewal of existing energy infrastructure, which will also affect the development of new jobs.
we have been working for many years in the european union on poverty, on this problem, on social exclusion, and in our political group we are, of course, against all forms of poverty. but the fact is that women are more vulnerable and still face a lot of discrimination, so it's right that we address them specifically. there are parts of the report that are very good and i can back them up. but i find it unacceptable that ideological themes are being inserted again and again in resolutions which are well-intentioned and which we need. this is unacceptable. we must design labour market policies to ensure that everyone has equal opportunities in employment, social security, pay and everywhere else. no discrimination is good neither negative nor positive. but since you have also ignored the principle of subsidiarity, as other colleagues have already said and emphasized, we cannot support this report.
in writing. i strongly support the call on the european commission to assess the impact of the eu minimum income schemes and to consider further action. these measures must include an analysis of the situation and proposals for measures in the field of minimum national pensions, which must not be lower than the poverty threshold. the increasing impoverishment of the elderly population (especially older women) requires immediate action to restore human dignity and a decent quality of life to the elderly poor. the fact that the elderly are labelled as a cost to society, which is a major financial and budgetary problem for local communities, the member states and the european union, is also directly linked to poverty among the older generations. it is therefore the duty of policy-makers to say a firm no to this kind of stigmatisation of the elderly and finally to make decisions that will promote intergenerational respect and ensure a more peaceful old age for today's younger generations. the time has come, ladies and gentlemen, to speak more forcefully about a more binding document aimed at protecting the rights of older people internationally. the call for member states to adopt minimum pension decisions therefore also represents, in my view, an important contribution to the idea that older people are a vulnerable social group whose rights must also be protected at the level of the european union and beyond.
we all agree that the commission in its present form is not to blame for the situation, but the measures adopted by the european parliament on the commission's proposal, such as the abolition of quotas and the russian embargo, have certainly resulted in an excess of milk production on the one hand and a drastic fall in prices on the other. the slovenian farmer lost about eur 600 to 800 per cow in one year. the european union's action is to... compensate him with about 30 euros. this cannot be compensation for the loss of this income, but it is necessary to do so by more serious measures - in particular, measures to limit production and to restore normal fair relations in the trade chain. unless we act now, this is what is going to happen: first, the farmers in the hilly, mountainous areas will fail, and then the farmers who are not vertically connected to the dairy industry, to the trade, will continue to fail. and farmers in countries that don't have the resources to support farmers with the national budget will be ruined. we do not want such a europe, and in such a europe, milk production will move to the plains and the hills will be covered with bushes. we need to act now, not wait until 2020.
in writing. we need to complete the single market, which will be the pillar of eu integration and the engine of sustainable growth and jobs. despite the progress made in recent years, we still have many reservations, particularly in addressing unjustified physical, legal and technical obstacles. i agree with the report, which supports the overall objectives of the commission's strategy for the single market for goods and services and the measures in key areas to unlock the full potential of the single market for the benefit of consumers and businesses, particularly start-ups. this will increase the number of sustainable jobs and strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on virtual currencies. seven years after the launch of bitcoin, the first and most important virtual currency, it has become clear that the innovation on which bitcoin is based, the so-called distributed ledger technology (dlt), will have a profound impact on the financial sector and beyond. the main opportunities of virtual currencies and dlt in the area of payments relate to the reduction of transaction costs and ease of use, while ensuring a high level of privacy protection. however, i would point out that the transaction costs for payments are quite high, which means that there is still a lot of work to be done to fully exploit the potential of virtual currencies.
in writing. ‒ seven years after the launch of bitcoin, the first virtual currency, it has become clear that the innovation on which bitcoin is based will have a profound impact on the financial sector and beyond. this technology allows, in principle, a decentralised, fast, robust and fairly secure recording of any transaction together with the history of past transactions in a so-called distributed ledger. while some questions remain regarding the scope of these technological changes, this first european parliament report on virtual currencies and dlt technology comes at the right time because of the significant opportunities and non-negligible risks. the report also takes into account the greens' views on the energy consumption of bitcoin and also our views on the definition of a virtual currency. the report is well balanced and represents a meaningful way forward on virtual currencies, which is why i supported it and voted for its adoption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on virtual currencies. the virtual currency has been around for seven years, so we can already make a realistic assessment of its impact and its contribution. by reducing transaction and operational costs for payments, reducing the cost of accessing financing without a traditional bank account, increasing the resilience and speed of payment systems and trade in goods and services, virtual currencies can be seen to contribute positively to citizens' well-being and economic development. i therefore support the recommendation to the commission to carry out a comprehensive analysis of virtual currencies and, on the basis of this assessment, to consider amending the current eu legislation on payments, if necessary.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on virtual currencies. virtual currencies will have a greater impact on the financial sector in the future, as they allow for fast and secure transactions. the main advantages of virtual currencies relate to the reduction of transaction costs and ease of use. the risks of using virtual currencies are already apparent today, as they are also used for money laundering and the financing of criminal and terrorist activities. however, it is only when the use of virtual currency becomes more widespread that it will be possible to assess the remaining risks. the supervision of virtual currencies requires the development of sufficient capacities, including in particular technical knowledge. harsh zoning regulations should be avoided, as they could stifle growth. nevertheless, there is a need to regulate this area with immediate and reliable control measures, and thus address risks before they become systemic.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on virtual currencies. i believe that this new technology can offer significant opportunities for the consumer and economic development. however, we have to approach this issue carefully. it innovations can spread very rapidly and become systemic and therefore it is essential that the commission establishes a task force to actively monitor how the technology evolves and to make timely proposals for specific regulation if the need arises.
in writing. - i voted for the report on virtual currencies. virtual currencies and dlt technology can make a positive contribution to the well-being of citizens and economic development, including in the financial sector. this requires the development of a robust legal framework that is in step with innovation and that can respond in a timely and appropriate manner to all risks associated with the use of virtual currencies.
in writing. ‒ i also supported the motion for a european parliament resolution on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, submitted by the french government to alleviate the problems of overwork at moryglobal. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is intended to provide support for surplus workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. the workers will have access to mentoring measures, the possibility of employment and business services, training, wage subsidies, reimbursement of travel, accommodation and removal costs. i am also pleased that the funds will also be used to help start-ups and to promote entrepreneurship. i hope, however, that in the future there will be as few such cases as possible. we have approved in the european parliament an egf of eur 5 146 800 for these measures, and i believe they will help alleviate the social problems of the workers affected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (france's role egf/2015/010 fr/moryglobal). the french company moryglobal sas faced bankruptcy and closure as a result of major structural changes in world trade flows, specifically in the land transport and pipeline transport sectors, and had to lay off 2,132 redundant workers. since the application is complete and meets the conditions, i have supported the allocation of eur 5 146 800 from the egf for france.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (france's application egf/2015/010 fr/moryglobal), as the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows. on 7 april, a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf for france to support the reintegration of 2132 workers made redundant by moryglobal sas in 22 departments in mainland france was adopted. the global financial and economic crisis has led to an increase in the number of bankruptcies in the road freight transport sector. tailored services, advice and guidance for redundant workers will be provided by a group of expert advisers from the three implementing agencies. the agencies are obliged to provide each participant with a tailored career path, a sufficient number of job offers and to allow him to consult generalists and/or specialists in business creation who have excellent knowledge of the labour market in the region and are available and responsive.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (application egf/2015/010 fr/moryglobal). the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to provide, under specific conditions, support for workers who have lost their jobs as a result of mass redundancies caused by major changes in global trade. the measures, co-financed by the egf and french government, would help the workers to find new jobs by providing them with occupational guidance and other assistance schemes such as collective and individual information sessions, job transition and accompaniment towards new jobs.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which estimates that france is entitled to a financial contribution of eur 5 146 800 under the egf regulation. union financial assistance shall be intended for redundant workers with a lower level of education in order to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market and employment.
in writing. ‒ i also voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which was submitted by the greek government for the supermarket of larissa. the contribution of eur 6 468 000 will thus provide assistance for the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by major structural changes in world trade flows - in this case the former workers of the larissa supermarket. this appropriation is intended to cover the cost of the training and education of staff and the cost of the training of other staff. i am also pleased that the funds will also be used to help start-ups and to promote entrepreneurship.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (greece's role egf/2015/011 gr/supermarket larissa). as a result of major structural changes in world trade flows, the greek retailing company supermarket larissa abee ran into difficulties, resulting in 557 redundant workers and 543 young people not employed, in education or training. for these reasons and in order to fulfil all the conditions, i support the allocation of eur 6 468 000 from the egf to greece.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (greece application egf/2015/011 gr/supermarket larissa), as the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows. on 14 april, the european commission adopted a proposal to mobilise the egf in favour of greece to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by supermarket larissa. there are 557 such workers in total, in addition to 543 young people who are not employed or in education. the fall in purchasing power led to the closure and bankruptcy of the cooperative stores of the supermarket larissa. five types of measures will be available to surplus workers: career guidance, training, retraining and vocational training, a contribution towards the creation of a company, a participation and training allowance and a mobility allowance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (application from greece – egf/2015/011 gr/supermarket larissa). the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to provide support for workers, under specific conditions, who have lost their jobs as a result of mass redundancies caused by major changes in global trade. the measures, co-financed by the egf and greek government, would help the workers to find new jobs by providing them with occupational guidance and other assistance schemes such as collective and individual information sessions, job transition and accompaniment towards new jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which estimates that greece is eligible for a financial contribution of eur 6 468 000 under the egf regulation. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to provide support for workers made redundant by major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and the global financial and economic crisis, and to assist their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a european parliament decision requesting the waiver of the immunity of mr gianluca buonann. the circumstances of the case make it appear that the offence or the acts committed by the member are not connected with his position as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the request for waiver of the immunity of gianluca buonanno in connection with criminal proceedings initiated before the ordinary court of vercelli on behalf of gianluca buonanno in relation to telephone threats he claims to have received from an unknown caller on his mobile telephone number on 14 april 2015. although it is not for the european parliament to interpret the domestic rules on the privileges and immunities of members of parliament, it seems appropriate to recall that the objective of article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union is primarily to safeguard the independence of members by ensuring that pressure is not brought to bear on them during the sessions of the european parliament. nevertheless, in this case it unquestionably appears that no pressure has been brought to bear on the member concerned, since the proceedings relate to alleged threats reported by the member himself as the victim.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr gianluca buonann. justified grounds for the waiver of immunity for the purpose of carrying out certain investigative acts in connection with the criminal proceedings instituted on behalf of the member before the tribunal de grande instance de vercelli in relation to the telephone threats allegedly received by the member on his mobile phone on 14 april 2015 from an unknown caller.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament resolution introducing provisional measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of sweden and italy and greece. these are urgent measures needed to manage the current refugee and migration crisis and to protect european citizens. sweden is facing an emergency situation due to a sudden increase in the number of third-country nationals entering its territory. in 2015, sweden had by far the highest number of applicants for international protection per capita in the eu (11,503 applicants per million inhabitants). by march 2016, sweden had thus accepted a total of 170,104 asylum seekers, of whom 73,331 were children. such figures are significantly too high even for a society as open as sweden's, and therefore the adoption of interim measures in the field of international protection is necessary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the introduction of provisional measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of sweden. sweden is facing an emergency situation due to the refugee/migrant crisis, as a large number of third-country nationals are coming to the country. i support the proposed amendment which defines sweden as a country of first arrival and a country of destination, while also clearly defining the number of applicants for international protection per eu population by march 2016.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a council decision to take provisional measures in the area of international protection in favour of sweden in accordance with article 9 of council decision (eu) 2015/1523 and article 9 of council decision (eu) 2015/1601 to take provisional measures in the area of international protection in favour of italy and greece. sweden is facing an emergency situation resulting from the sudden arrival of third-country nationals on its territory. sweden had by far the highest number of applicants for international protection per capita in the eu in 2015 (11,503 applicants per million inhabitants), with a total of 170,104 applications received by march 2016. sweden is also facing a difficult situation due to the recent increase in the number of unaccompanied minors with special needs who require additional resources to ensure their access to healthcare, decent housing and education in accordance with union asylum rules.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the proposal for a council decision establishing provisional measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of sweden. sweden faces an emergency situation characterised by a sudden inflow of nationals of third countries in its territory due to a sharp shift of migratory flows, and furthermore faces both challenges of being a country of first arrival and final destination. in march 2016 sweden received a total of 170 104 applicants, of whom 73 331 were children, including 36 181 unaccompanied minors, who have special needs and require additional resources in order to provide access to health care, dignified accommodation and education according to union asylum rules. nevertheless, i believe that the situation that sweden faces does not require special provisional measures, such as the ones envisioned in the case of greece and italy, and that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the introduction of provisional measures in the area of international protection in favour of sweden in accordance with article 9 of council decision (eu) 2015/1523. the purpose of the council decision is to suspend sweden's obligations as a member state with regard to the relocation of asylum seekers to its territory for a period of one year, as sweden is facing an emergency situation due to the sudden arrival of third-country nationals on its territory, resulting from drastic changes in migration flows.
in writing. ‒ i also supported the resolution on transatlantic data flows, in which the european parliament welcomes the efforts of the commission and the competent authorities in the us to significantly improve the protection of privacy in the exchange of data between europe and the us. both parties must strive to respect the right to data protection and the right to privacy. the eu must maintain the highest level of protection for personal data even after it has been transferred across the atlantic, regardless of the purpose for which it is used.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the transatlantic flow of data. transatlantic data flows between europe and the united states are very important for our economy. with the increasing digitalisation of society, this sector is very important for our future. we need to conclude the privacy shield negotiations as soon as possible, which will achieve two things: on the one hand, we will protect the data of our citizens, and on the other hand, which is equally important, we will give legal certainty to our businesses, especially small and medium-sized businesses, which are the backbone of our economy. the commission has done a lot of work and i hope it will complete its work as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the development of the information society and electronic commerce and the improvement of the interception capabilities of intelligence agencies worldwide have increased the flow of data and electronic communications and the risks associated with the misuse of these data. i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the transatlantic flow of data, because such protection would be useless if it were limited to the territory of the union and if, in accordance with the directive, it were not adequately ensured in the third countries to which data are transferred. the eu-us privacy shield reflects the requirements of the judgment of the court of justice of the eu of 6 october 2015, which repealed the previous safe harbour framework. the new arrangement will impose greater obligations on us companies to protect the personal data of europeans and ensure tighter monitoring and enforcement by the us department of commerce and the us federal trade commission, including through enhanced cooperation with european data protection authorities. the new agreement contains an obligation for the us to make the access of public authorities to personal data transferred under the new arrangement subject to clear conditions, restrictions and controls in accordance with us law, in order to prevent pervasive access. europeans will be able to address any queries or complaints to the special new ombudsman.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the non-legislative resolution on transatlantic data flows. the resolution suggests that the commission and the us administration need to make data flow more user-friendly and effective. it equally stresses that the privacy shield framework gives eu member states’ data protection agencies a prominent role in examining data protection claims and notes their power to suspend data transfers. it also notes the obligation placed upon the us department of commerce to resolve such complaints.
in writing. ‒ cross-border data flows between the us and europe are essential for innovation, job creation and economic growth in the eu and the us. legal certainty and, in particular, clear and uniform rules are among the key elements for the development and growth of enterprises. i therefore supported the european parliament resolution on transatlantic data flows, which calls on the commission to continue the dialogue with the us administration and to conclude the negotiations on the eu-us privacy shield, in order to provide legal certainty on how the transfer of personal data from the eu to the us should take place.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the new energy customer agreement, the so-called third energy package. its purpose is to ensure a truly competitive, transparent and customer-friendly retail energy market. unfortunately, despite some progress, this has not yet been achieved in all eu member states, as evidenced by the persistently high levels of market concentration and also by the fact that ever-lower wholesale costs are not reflected in retail prices. i am convinced that open, transparent and competitive well-regulated markets are the most important to maintain low prices, stimulate innovation and improve customer service. by removing the barriers currently faced by innovative business models in the energy sector, we can also improve the price-to-service ratio and contribute to the prevention of energy poverty.
in writing. ‒ the report on the new energy customer agreement focuses exclusively on household energy customers in the context of the transformation of the energy system and emphasises that industrial customers should be treated separately. with the current transformation of the energy system, we are moving away from a system based on traditional centralized production towards a system that is more decentralized and flexible. the final objective of the implementation of the report is thus an economy based entirely on renewable energy sources, which can only be achieved by reducing our energy consumption, by following the principle of putting energy efficiency first, and by prioritising energy savings and demand-related measures, thus achieving climate objectives in line with the paris agreement objective, energy security, competitiveness and, in particular, reducing costs for consumers. the result of the energy system transformation should be, in principle, a more efficient energy system that benefits society as a whole, increases the involvement of citizens and local and regional actors and communities and enables them to own or participate in the production, distribution and storage of renewable energy, while protecting the most vulnerable and ensuring that they benefit from energy efficiency and renewable energy measures. the report also proposes the adoption of price comparison guidelines. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the new energy consumer agreement. this concerns household energy customers in the context of the transformation of the energy system, as industrial customers need to be treated separately. the commission has to take due account of the costs of transition to the new market design in some member states in terms of affordability and competitiveness. i agree with the report that open, transparent and well-regulated competitive markets are important for maintaining low prices, fostering innovation, improving customer services and removing barriers to innovative business models that can offer citizens a good price-to-service ratio and contribute to preventing energy poverty.
in writing. ‒ i supported the new energy customer agreement, as the current transformation of the energy system is moving away from a system based on traditional centralised production to one that is more decentralised and flexible and based mainly on renewable energy. the ultimate goal of the economy should be based entirely on renewable energy sources, which can only be achieved by reducing our energy consumption. the energy union should provide stable, affordable, efficient and sustainable high-quality energy-efficient products, services and housing; enable citizens to produce, consume, store or trade their own renewable energy, individually or collectively; take energy-saving measures; actively participate in the energy market because they have a choice as consumers; contribute to the eradication of energy poverty; protect consumers from unfair, non-competitive and unfair behaviour by market actors and enable them to fully exercise their rights; and create the right conditions to ensure a well-functioning and competitive internal energy market that provides consumers with choice and transparent and clear access to information.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on delivering a new deal for energy consumers. the report calls for the implementation of market liberalisation measures to tackle persistent high levels of market concentration, improve low levels of consumer switching and for retail prices to better reflect falling wholesale costs. our energy market is going through a fundamental transition and we have to ensure that consumers are at the heart of these changes. only a competitive and liberalised internal market will allow consumers to fully enjoy the benefits of this shift. therefore, a new deal for energy consumers focused on empowering consumers and helping them to participate more actively in the market is urgently needed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the new energy customer agreement, which advocates, among other things, that consumers should have more rights in the single european energy market. currently, some 50 million people in europe live in energy poverty. i agree that the elimination of energy poverty requires the establishment of a well-functioning competitive market and the introduction of new business models that offer consumers a good price-service ratio.
in writing. ‒ in voting on the european parliament's motion for a resolution on poverty, i abstained on the gender aspect, as it contained certain solutions which i cannot support for moral reasons. moreover, statistics show that the exposure to poverty is fairly equal for both men and women. statistics on the distribution of income poverty and income inequality in the eu show that in 2015, 17.2% of women and 16.1% of men were at risk of poverty. the data clearly show that women and men are exposed to poverty at about the same rate, so in my view the gender dimension is not crucial in poverty reduction. our responsibility is to provide the conditions for increasing employment, which is key to reducing poverty. for the most vulnerable, we have a duty to ensure that social policies are such as to preserve the dignity of every individual, whatever his reasons for the situation in which he finds himself.
in writing. ‒ although gender equality is one of the eu's core values and one of the objectives of strategy 2020, it is still far from being achieved. moreover, the situation in the area of gender equality has deteriorated further since the economic crisis. following the recommendation of the european commission, member states have begun to implement austerity measures and to reduce public services, which has led to an increase in poverty, especially among women. the report is divided into three parts and addresses poverty and work-life balance, poverty and employment, as well as general recommendations, including a call for member states to reduce energy poverty, a call for social rights for victims of violence against women and a highlighted role of education in combating gender stereotypes. unfortunately, the report did not include a request to establish a minimum wage and a minimum pension at european union level, nor an extension of maternity leave from 14 to 20 weeks. the positive aspects of the report include recognition of lgbti rights and measures to reduce employment insecurity. although the report has certain shortcomings, i think it is nevertheless appropriate and i have therefore supported it and voted for its adoption.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the vote on the report on poverty: a gender perspective. the report on poverty in terms of gender provides important data showing that more women than men are at risk of poverty in european society. the labour market is particularly vulnerable, and there is also a high degree of discrimination on grounds of gender. in 2016, there were already several reports dealing with similar topics. unfortunately, we can see that this report, while highlighting some important aspects, does not bring new and better solutions, and i could not support it. the report also contains many sensitive issues which, in my view, should not be the subject of this report.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the motion for a resolution on poverty and the gender dimension. we have been working on poverty and social exclusion in the eu for many years. in the epp group we are working to combat all forms of poverty, but the fact is that women face it more often than men. i could support certain parts of the report, but it is unacceptable that ideological themes are repeatedly included in resolutions which are necessary and have good intentions. labour market policies need to be designed to ensure equal opportunities for all. discrimination is not good in any sense. the resolution also repeatedly disregarded the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on ‘poverty: a gender perspective’. eurostat data show that the number of women in poverty remains permanently higher than that of men and the more so if they are single mothers, pensioners, immigrants or disabled. the report stresses the importance of gender equality in the labour market which would benefit not only women but the economy and society as a whole. the report equally underlines the crucial role of high-quality public services in combating poverty, especially female poverty, since women are more dependent on such services. the report urges the encouragement and commitment of men in terms of promoting gender equality in all fields and at all levels of the labour market. in addition, the report considers that member states should prioritise the issue of reconciling private and professional life by introducing family—friendly working arrangements.
in writing. ‒ the poverty report: gender dimension looks at the latest eurostat data, which show that the number of women living in poverty is still higher than that of men. i am committed to the consistent respect of the principle of gender equality in all areas and at all levels of the labour market and to an effective support system for education, social protection systems and care and care services that will reduce the risk of poverty. however, as the report infringes the principle of subsidiarity in some places, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the creation of the single market is considered one of the greatest achievements of european integration, which aims to remove trade barriers throughout the european union. further deepening the single market is crucial to improving the potential of the european economy, which is why i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on non-tariff barriers in the single market. tariff barriers were successfully removed almost 50 years ago, while our current single market initiatives are born of the persistent challenge of how to remove non-tariff barriers. the recently adopted single market strategy sets out a number of measures to strengthen and deepen the single market, but two main changes are needed: better and more consistent enforcement of existing rules and a change in the mindset of member states, which must move away from increasingly protectionist measures and open up their domestic markets more widely.
in writing. ‒ the creation of the single market is seen as a major achievement made possible by cooperation and the pursuit of a common goal, namely the removal of trade barriers throughout the european union. tariff barriers were successfully removed almost 50 years ago, while our current single market initiatives are born of the persistent challenge of how to remove non-tariff barriers. the report examines barriers to trade and the free movement of goods and services within the single market and possible measures to remove these barriers. unfortunately, the report does not contribute to improving the definition of non-tariff barriers, but merely reflects the provisions of the treaties and the judgments of the court of justice of the european union. moreover, the report favours mutual recognition of services and goods rather than harmonisation, which poses a risk of re-application of the country of origin principle to the services sector. moreover, the report remains focused on the exclusion of member states' requirements, which it presents as disproportionate and unjustified restrictions. the report is consistent with the deregulatory approach of the better regulation agenda and thus calls for ex ante justification by member states when introducing new regulatory measures. for these reasons, the report does not reflect my demands on non-tariff barriers, which is why i did not support it at the sitting and voted against its adoption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on non-tariff barriers in the single market. we have been talking about the european single market for some time, we have also adopted some important reports and we all agree that it is still necessary because it contributes to the european economy. the report concludes that the full implementation of the single market in the areas of free movement of goods, services, public procurement, the digital economy and most consumer protection legislation would bring economic benefits of up to eur 1.1 billion per year, which is also 8.63% of the european union's gdp. we need to remove non-tariff barriers, including unjustified national technical regulations and regulatory or non-regulatory conditions imposed on suppliers of products.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal on non-tariff barriers in the single market, as the creation of the single market is considered to be an important achievement made possible by the removal of trade barriers within the european union. the single market strategy has recently been adopted, which sets out a number of measures to strengthen and deepen the single market. the removal of non-tariff barriers will certainly help businesses across the eu, with consumers benefiting the most. the latter claim is based on studies carried out by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and states that the most competitive and innovative companies benefit from the final establishment of the single market, while all consumers benefit from lower prices and greater choice. it is therefore in the interest of the european parliament and the member states to continue to work towards the removal of non-tariff barriers, as this will benefit all consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on non-tariff barriers in the single market. the free movement of goods and services has continued to be hampered by ntbs (non-tariff barriers) such as unjustified national technical rules or bureaucracy. the report calls for the urgent action at both union and member state levels to address such ntbs and to strengthen the single market. the report equally underlines that the digital single market strategy and the single market strategy for europe comprise initiatives that should be implemented swiftly and ambitiously in order to reduce single market ntbs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on non-tariff barriers in the single market. non-tariff barriers continue to impede the free functioning of the internal market. the final completion of the single market would, according to the estimates given in the report, bring economic benefits of between eur 651 billion and eur 1.1 trillion per year. i agree that the essential measures to strengthen and deepen the single market are a more consistent enforcement of existing rules and a change in the thinking of member states, which must move away from increasingly protectionist measures and open up their domestic markets more.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the single market strategy. in the process of european integration, the completion of the single market has always been and remains one of the fundamental priorities of european union policy. in recent years, reality has changed dramatically. the challenges we face are growing and concern in particular the internal market: on the one hand, european citizens, especially young people, are facing a growing unemployment rate, which is associated with a weakening of entrepreneurship and competitiveness, and on the other hand, there is the problem of migration. the strategy 'making the single market work: more opportunities for people and the economy' complements and builds on this initiative by proposing concrete measures that are sure to have a direct impact and a stimulating effect on the market and to strengthen consumer protection. i would also point out that that resolution contains an initiative for the commission to draw up a legislative proposal to extend the geographical indication to non-agricultural products and to make the indication of the origin of products compulsory. i am very pleased about this, because consumers have the right to know all the information about where the products they buy come from.
in writing. ‒ the single market has been and remains a pillar of european union integration and a driver of sustainable growth and jobs, boosting trade within the european union while ensuring a highly competitive social market economy. the single market strategy report contains some good points, such as strengthening the development of smes and combating late payments. i am pleased that the report calls for a legislative proposal to address unfair geo-blocking and to address the lack of tax coordination. the report also calls for proposals to prevent employment and tax abuse through simple rules. the standardisation section is particularly welcome, with a strong emphasis on the role of innovation and calls for the development of high standards of quality and safety in the field of european industrial policy and the promotion of these standards at international level. the report also emphasises the inclusion of public procurement rules to improve their service to public policy, member states and local professional enterprises. for the reasons stated above, i voted in favour of the report at the sitting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the single market strategy report. we need to complete the single market, which will be the pillar of eu integration and the engine of sustainable growth and jobs. despite the progress made in recent years, we still have many reservations, particularly in addressing unjustified physical, legal and technical obstacles. i agree with the report, which supports the overall objectives of the commission's strategy for the single market for goods and services and the measures in key areas to unlock the full potential of the single market for the benefit of consumers and businesses, particularly start-ups. this will increase the number of sustainable jobs and strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. ‒ i supported the single market strategy, as the completion of the single market is one of the priorities of european integration. the current situation requires a pragmatic and tough approach. the political priorities to be addressed are: enhanced competitiveness of enterprises, better enforcement and preparation of legislation and enhanced consumer protection. one of the priorities remains the services directive, under which the ec should ensure stricter controls on transmissions in the member states. the legislative proposal announced in relation to insolvency and early stage corporate restructuring is also important. under the leadership of the current president of the commission, important and ambitious measures have been taken, including the european energy union. these are concrete measures which are certain to have a direct impact and an incentive effect on the market and to strengthen consumer protection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of report on the single market strategy. the report supports the overall objectives of the commission’s single market strategy for goods and services: ‘upgrading the single market: more opportunities for people and business’. the report emphasises that the strategy has good potential to help ensure economic prosperity, increase the creation of sustainable jobs and growth, improve the well—being of europeans by practical measures, make the european union attractive for investments and develop the global competitiveness of european businesses. on the other hand, the report warns that the implementation of this strategy is needed to avoid inconsistencies and overlaps between the different initiatives. the report equally underlines that proposals should be evidence-based and in line with better regulation principles.
in writing. ‒ i supported the single market strategy report. the single market strategy should provide a new impetus for smes and start-ups, as well as increasing the number of sustainable jobs. the eu must harness the potential of the single market to remain globally competitive and improve the well-being of its citizens.
in writing. it is important to build sustainable development through globally coordinated development policies. the resolution on policy coordination for development for 2015 analyses seven priority areas, namely the areas of migration, trade and finance, food security, health, climate change, gender and security. the european council meeting on policy coordination for development would also be crucial for defining the responsibilities of individual eu institutions in achieving commitments in this area. when it comes to the sdgs, third countries should be more closely involved in eu decision-making. policy coherence for development is a key element for the implementation and achievement of the new sustainable development agenda.
the harmonised international accounting standards play an important role in ensuring financial discipline on the one hand and, of course, transparency and accountability on the other, both in the private and indirectly public sectors. the word 'trust' is particularly important in the implementation of accounting standards. and to those who argue that international accounting standards are, of course, partly to blame for the financial and economic crisis, i can say that, of course, it's not the accounting standards that are to blame, but it's primarily the fault of those who have used them in the wrong way, when, of course, accounting standards can also be abused, when they become the subject of speculation and, of course, adjustment of the balance sheets of companies. and of course, strict control over the operation and application of these standards is necessary, because only in this way can we ensure trust.
in writing. international accounting standards are an essential element for the efficient functioning of the market and have contributed to an overall improvement in the quality of accounting data and financial statements, which benefits both the single market and capital markets. i believe that certain improvements are still needed as member states do not fully implement or fully support these standards. common guidelines should be developed and member states should be encouraged to follow them and fully implement the standards. i also think it is important to develop simplified pan-european accounting standards for smes, which would allow them greater cross-border mobility, lower costs and easier access to capital markets.
according to some estimates, unfair trading practices cost european consumers as much as €30-40 billion a year. undoubtedly, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are the most affected by such practices, and of course farmers are the most affected. the statistics are also very telling, pointing out that practically five traders in europe control as much as 50% of the market. it is therefore a practice which is not good for fair competition and which can also be felt, as i said, by small and mediumsized enterprises, farmers and consumers. we therefore want european legislation to regulate this in a more efficient, fair way, and there are of course many in the member states. the solutions we have so far are not ideal, and the one we will be voting on in the coming days is not an ideal model either. it may be a step forward, but we want this practice to be... and above all, we want the european commission to come up with an even more ambitious plan and measures to protect small and medium-sized enterprises, farmers and, ultimately, consumers.
i certainly support technological development in agriculture, because otherwise agriculture will not be able to meet the basic expectations of feeding people, giving farmers a decent and dignified income, as well as ensuring food safety and maintaining consumer confidence. i am therefore firmly convinced that it is imperative to focus and concentrate on research aimed at transferring knowledge into practice. such research will have a great future if we can get young people interested, because they are also agents of change. i certainly support research that will lead to new innovations in plant protection, research that will ensure food safety, and at the same time research that will also answer the big question of climate change that we are facing. but all this research certainly needs a lot of transparency, because the key to all this is also to maintain the loyalty of consumers who will believe in safe european food.
we are often accused here in parliament of not working efficiently enough and of being too slow to come up with the solutions and proposals we propose. but today, we have a report on the table that proves just the opposite, a step forward in creating an environment that will force businesses to pay their taxes more fairly and honestly. the fact is that because of lax legislation and lack of data exchange, billions of euros of money disappear every year that could otherwise be spent on health, education, social improvements. tax harmonisation is also a prerequisite for achieving economic and monetary union. without this, we can hardly expect the single market to function properly. i would like to express my support for the efforts to introduce a common consolidated corporate tax base. while we all agree that we must be very determined in preventing tax evasion, aggressive tax planning and tax avoidance, we must also be aware that excessive requirements and overly burdensome bureaucratic rules can also have a negative effect. there is a decline in economic activity and, consequently, less taxation. of course, we must strive to ensure that such a report and such a document are balanced.
of course, the public rightly expects us to take strong action against tax evasion. this, of course, requires a thorough tax reform that decisively tackles the root of the problem. of course, the key to this is tax transparency of companies' activities and public reporting by country, which is particularly important where companies operate, generate profits and therefore pay taxes. sanctions are also needed for banks and other institutions that allow and in fact advise on tax havens, that encourage such practices and that assist in tax evasion. it requires public disclosure of all personal tax rulings that have been agreed between tax authorities and large corporations, which we know, at least since the luxleaks scandal, is a very common practice. and finally, what is crucial is the political will of both the member states and the european union to really get to the heart of the problem and to tackle tax havens and big corporations that make profits at a time when europe is tightening its belt and violating social rights.
i regret, of course, that the directive will not be implemented at the beginning of next year, as was originally planned. however, i agree that if this will allow for greater consumer protection, then this extension is also justified. the lessons of the last financial crisis have also revealed many weaknesses in the multinational economic framework. in addition to addressing these weaknesses, we must also ensure that market barriers and discriminatory practices are eliminated. once we get rid of them, we'll also achieve greater protection for our consumers. and of course, greater efficiency in financial markets. i agree that we need to establish more reliable and efficient market structures and, of course, we also need more control and jurisdiction over these markets. all this, of course, in the interests of greater consumer protection. esma should establish a common data system with the national competent authorities, which will ultimately also lead to more transparency. i can of course conclude from all that has been said that the amendments proposed in the report are justified and i support them.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed resolution to conclude a protocol to the who framework convention on tobacco control. the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products is the only multilateral legislative initiative in this field, signed by the eu on 20 december 2013, and entering into force after 40 signatories have ratified it. the illicit trade in tobacco products is a global problem and a criminal offence, undermining tobacco control policies, facilitating access to often cheaper tobacco products and posing a major threat to human health. from an economic perspective, illicit trade causes a major loss of revenue for the eu in terms of unpaid taxes and duties, estimated by some to be worth more than eur 10 billion a year. given that tax revenues from the legal tobacco trade in the member states amount to more than eur 90 billion a year, one in ten cigarettes sold on the european market is therefore illegal. illicit trafficking must therefore be combated at global level and the said protocol is the central platform for this. it lays down a system for the traceability and detection of tobacco products, the granting of licences, registration requirements, the regulation of internet sales, sales in duty-free shops and international transit. it also identifies violations, addresses liability and payment for seizures, and deals with the destruction of seized products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products to the who framework convention on tobacco control. in addition to the health damage caused by tobacco products, which kill one person every six seconds, we have a very serious problem with smuggled cigarettes. this is a criminal offence, of course, but it also results in a loss of revenue for the european union of 10 billion a year. that is why we need a protocol to the framework convention on tobacco control, which will improve the fight against illicit trade in tobacco products by taking the necessary measures.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products to the who framework convention on tobacco control, as ratification of the protocol to the framework convention would benefit public health and contribute to the international fight against illicit trade in tobacco, tax evasion and organised crime. the who framework convention on tobacco control has been in force since 27 february 2005 and has 180 signatories to date. the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products is based on article 15 thereof and enters into force when 40 signatories have ratified it. the eu would contribute to the early entry into force and implementation of this protocol by swift ratification. illicit trade in tobacco products is a crime, a health hazard and a revenue drain for the eu, amounting to over €10 billion in unpaid customs duties and taxes a year.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products to the world health organisation’s framework convention on tobacco control, with the exception of its provisions falling within the scope of title v of part three of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the world health organisation’s framework convention on tobacco control (fctc) is the first global health treaty developed in response to the global tobacco epidemic and aims to tackle some of its causes, including illicit trade in tobacco products. illicit trade in tobacco products, in particular cigarette smuggling is a criminal activity posing a serious threat to public health because it undermines tobacco control policies and increases access to cheaper tobacco products. in addition, it causes huge losses of revenue to the eu in terms of unpaid taxes and customs duties. i am of the view that the ratification of the fctc protocol will benefit public health and help the international fight against illicit tobacco trade, tax evasion and organized crime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products to the who framework convention on tobacco control. the protocol to the framework convention on tobacco control is the central global initiative in this field. illicit trade in tobacco products, in particular smuggling of cigarettes, is a crime that poses a serious threat to public health by undermining tobacco control policies and facilitating access to often cheaper tobacco products. it also causes a considerable loss of revenue for the eu in terms of unpaid taxes and customs duties. the estimated revenue loss for the eu and its member states is more than eur 10 billion per year. this makes an effective global regime the best policy option to combat this transboundary phenomenon.
in writing. ‒ i also supported the ep's proposed recommendation on uniform technical rules for road vehicles, as i believe that barriers to trade and cooperation and the global automotive industry need to be removed. the automotive industry is the european union's core economic sector, employing 12 million people and generating 4% of eu gdp. the sector has a wide range of activities, from steel, chemicals, to information and communication technology. the automotive industry provides a complete value chain, involving almost all member states. it also generates an exceptionally high value-added along the chain and plays an important role in the euro area trade balance. the eu must increase its competitiveness and maintain its position as a world technology leader if it is to maintain its important position in the automotive industry. general technical requirements, such as the framework of the united nations economic commission for europe, help to reduce the costs of development, production and certification and avoid duplication of administrative procedures. this allows more energy to be directed into the development and production process itself.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the third review of the agreement of the united nations economic commission for europe concerning the adoption of uniform technical prescriptions for road vehicles, equipment and parts which can be incorporated into and/or be used on road vehicles and the conditions for reciprocal recognition of approvals granted on the basis of these prescriptions. the automotive industry, which employs 12 million people and generates 4% of the european union's gdp, is a hugely important economic sector in the european union, and it is our duty to adopt regulations that will facilitate access to trade and participation in global chains. of course, in addition to promoting a transparent and efficient economic environment, we must not forget safety and health.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft council decision on the conclusion of the third review of the agreement of the united nations economic commission for europe concerning the adoption of uniform technical prescriptions for road vehicles, equipment and parts which can be incorporated into and/or be used on road vehicles and the conditions for reciprocal recognition of approvals granted on the basis of these prescriptions. with global markets becoming increasingly interlinked and industrial production increasingly taking place in global chains, it is essential to remove barriers to trade in order to strengthen a competitive and diversified industrial base. the automotive industry is a key economic sector in the eu, generating 4% of eu gdp and employing 12 million people. it provides a complete value chain, creates exceptionally high added value and plays an important role in the euro area's trade balance. the eu needs to increase its competitiveness and maintain its position as a world technological leader if it is to maintain the important position of the automotive industry. international regulatory cooperation is a possibility for a transparent, efficient and competitive economic environment, while at the same time establishing and ensuring the highest level of safety and health protection. it is important that the eu provides support for global technological harmonisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of revision 3 of the agreement of the united nations economic commission for europe concerning the adoption of uniform technical prescriptions for wheeled vehicles, equipment and parts which can be fitted and/or used on wheeled vehicles and the conditions for the reciprocal recognition of approvals granted on the basis of these prescriptions (‘revised 1958 agreement’). the automotive industry and the related auxiliary industries are a core economic sector for the european union. this industry represents a well-integrated value chain in which almost all member states are involved. therefore, global regulatory cooperation in the framework of unece as a model should be reflected and strengthened. i believe that, in order to maintain the vital position of the automotive industry, the eu must strengthen the competitiveness of the eu automotive industry and preserve its global technological leadership.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the third review of the agreement of the united nations economic commission for europe concerning the adoption of uniform technical prescriptions for road vehicles, equipment and parts which can be incorporated into and/or be used on road vehicles and the conditions for reciprocal recognition of approvals granted on the basis of these prescriptions. the automotive industry and its sub-industries are a key economic sector. in order to maintain and strengthen a competitive and diversified industrial base in europe, it is necessary to actively engage in international regulatory cooperation, which offers the potential for a stimulating, transparent, efficient and competitive economic environment, while establishing and ensuring the highest level of safety and health. in addition, regulatory consistency and transparency are also needed to design and implement effective, cost-effective and more consistent rules.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the possibility of croatia's participation in the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, on the one hand, and colombia and peru, on the other. in 2014, the commission opened negotiations with colombia and peru with a view to concluding an additional protocol to the trade agreement to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union. the agreement provides for the liberalisation of trade in agricultural and industrial products and services. it also contains provisions on the origin of goods, technical barriers to trade, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, competition, intellectual property and public procurement. as croatia's participation in the trade agreement is a natural consequence of its accession to the eu, it is understandable that the commission and the council have taken the necessary legal measures to enable this cooperation. the approval of that council decision by the european parliament is necessary for the final ratification of the additional protocol. i have no reason to object to that.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal to conclude the additional protocol to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, and colombia and peru, taking account of the accession of croatia to the eu, which took place after the conclusion of the previous agreement. the additional protocol includes croatia in the commitments made in sectors such as government procurement, trade in services, establishment and electronic commerce and rules of origin, and takes account of the croatian language for the implementation of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of an additional protocol to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, on behalf of the european union and its member states. this september marks four years since the commission opened negotiations with colombia and peru to conclude an additional protocol to croatia's accession to the eu. with croatia's accession to the european union, it is, of course, logical that it should also join the agreement, which provides for the liberalisation of trade in agricultural and industrial products as well as services.
in writing. ‒ i supported, on behalf of the european union and its member states, the draft council decision on the conclusion of an additional protocol to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. the european union signed a trade agreement with colombia and peru on 26 june 2012 in brussels. on 11 december 2012, the european parliament approved the conclusion of the agreement by means of a legislative resolution. on 24 september 2012, the european commission, acting under the authority of the council, opened negotiations with colombia and peru for the conclusion of an additional protocol relating to the accession of croatia to the european union. the agreement provides for the liberalisation of trade in agricultural and industrial products and services. it also contains provisions on the origin of goods, technical barriers to trade, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, competition, intellectual property and public procurement. in the rapporteur's view, croatia's participation in this agreement is a natural continuation of its eu approach, and it is therefore understandable that measures have been taken by the commission and the council to facilitate this cooperation. the rapporteur also recommends that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the protocol on the association of croatia with the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part. the final ratification of the additional protocol requires the approval of a council decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the additional protocol to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. the agreement liberalises trade in agricultural and industrial products as well as in services. it also contains provisions on the origin of goods, technical barriers to trade, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, competition, intellectual property and public procurement. i believe that the participation of croatia in the trade agreement is a natural consequence of its eu accession.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the conclusion of the protocol on the association of croatia with the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part. croatia's participation in the trade agreement is a natural consequence of its accession to the eu. it is therefore understandable that the commission and the council have taken the necessary legal measures to enable this cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the council recommendation on enhanced cooperation in the area of property relations between international couples. the decision on enhanced cooperation in the area of jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in the field of property relations of international couples, covering both matrimonial property regimes and the property consequences of registered partnerships, was adopted following the breakdown of negotiations between all member states on the original proposals presented by the commission in 2011. at the beginning of 2016, the commission prepared a new proposal for acts using the enhanced cooperation procedure, building on the content of the compromise text previously reached. since the matter is procedural according to the agreement, i did not object.
in writing. ‒ the decision to enhance cooperation in the area of jurisdiction for the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of property of international couples was adopted after the breakdown of negotiations between all member states on the original proposals presented by the commission in 2011. enhanced cooperation must fulfil several conditions, namely that at least nine member states must be involved and that, where the union as a whole cannot achieve the objectives of such cooperation within a reasonable time, it must be a last resort. cooperation must respect the treaty and union law, as well as the competences, rights and obligations of non-participating member states. furthermore, cooperation must pursue the objectives of the union, protect its interests and strengthen its integration processes. at the same time, cooperation must not be detrimental to the internal market or to economic, social and territorial cohesion, and must not constitute a barrier to or discrimination in trade between member states or distort competition between them. in order to support the proposal for a council decision on enhanced cooperation in this area, i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision authorising enhanced cooperation in the area of jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of property of international couples, covering both the property of spouses and the property consequences of registered partnerships. i welcome the decision to continue enhanced cooperation in the area of property relations between international couples after negotiations between member states failed. on the basis of the member states' views, the commission prepared a new proposal at the beginning of this year, which is a compromise of all the proposals. on the basis of this recommendation, which is procedural in nature, we approved the council's proposal for enhanced cooperation in this area.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft council decision. in 2011, the european commission presented proposals relating to the field of international couples. the member states did not accept the above-mentioned proposals, and it became clear that enhanced cooperation in this area was the ideal solution. earlier this year, the commission prepared a new proposal for legislative acts using the enhanced cooperation procedure. the latter must fulfil several conditions: it must be the last possible option where the eu as a whole cannot achieve the objectives of such cooperation within a reasonable time, and it must involve at least 9 member states; it must respect the treaty and union law and the competences, rights and obligations of the member states not participating in it; must pursue the objectives of the union, protect its interests and strengthen its integration processes, and must not affect the internal market or economic, social and territorial cohesion, and must not constitute a barrier to or discrimination in trade between member states. in the present case, the conditions were met, as enhanced cooperation was indeed a last resort. the proposed acts shall not affect the rights of non-cooperating member states and shall not affect the internal market. this enhanced cooperation in the area of property relations between international couples is clearly in line with the objectives of the union and in the interest of citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision authorising enhanced cooperation in the area of jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions on the property regimes of international couples, covering both matters of matrimonial property regimes and the property consequences of registered partnerships. i believe that all criteria for enhanced cooperation are met in this case. the enhanced cooperation in the area of the property regimes of international couples is undoubtedly in accordance with the objectives of the union and in the interest of its citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a council decision on enhanced cooperation in the field of property relations between international couples. i consider that simplifying the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of property of international couples is in line with the objectives of the union and in the interest of citizens.
in writing. ‒ like the previous resolution on the conclusion of the protocol to the world health organisation's framework convention on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products, i also supported this resolution, which thus calls for the ratification of the protocol to that protocol. the protocol focuses on the tobacco supply chain and provides for a global monitoring and tracing system to be established within five years of its entry into force. the protocol will also require additional provisions to address the illicit supply chain of tobacco products, such as licensing, record-keeping requirements, regulation of internet sales, duty-free sales and international transit. in addition, the protocol also pays great attention to the promotion and strengthening of international cooperation, exchange of information and cooperation in the field of law enforcement and mutual legal and administrative assistance. the protocol also mentions the duties of the tobacco industry. it must decisively strengthen and address the issue of illicit trade in its products. the parties to the protocol should also ensure that any cooperation with the tobacco industry is fully transparent and should not delegate any of their agreed monitoring and tracking obligations to the tobacco industry. the fight against illicit trade in tobacco products must truly become a priority, not only in european but also in global politics.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products to the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control, on behalf of the european union, as regards the provisions of that protocol on obligations relating to judicial cooperation in criminal matters and the definition of criminal offences. we need a protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products, which makes a significant contribution to stopping the illicit trade in tobacco products and, consequently, to combating tax and customs evasion. we must not forget that the european union loses €10 billion in revenue every year to cigarette smuggling. we therefore urgently need a global system of monitoring and tracking, licensing and regulation of duty-free sales.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products to the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control, as regards the provisions of that protocol on obligations relating to judicial cooperation in criminal matters and the definition of criminal offences. the purpose of the protocol is to eliminate all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products. the latter protocol defines as any practice or conduct associated with the manufacture, sending, receipt, possession, distribution, sale or purchase of tobacco products that is prohibited by law. the protocol identifies violations, addresses liability and payment for seizure, and disposes of seized products. its main objective is to promote and strengthen international cooperation, exchange of relevant information, technical cooperation and cooperation in the field of law enforcement, and mutual legal and administrative assistance. it also specifies that a global monitoring and tracing system should be established within 5 years of entry into force. there is an inseparable conflict between the interests of the tobacco industry and the interests of public health, which the protocol does not deny. it states that the parties must ensure that any cooperation with the tobacco industry is transparent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products to the world health organisation’s framework convention on tobacco control, as regards its provisions on obligations related to judicial cooperation in criminal matters and the definition of criminal offences. the objective of the protocol is the elimination of all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products. the protocol targets the supply chain of tobacco products via a series of measures by governments. in addition, the protocol aims to encourage and enhance international cooperation, valid information sharing, technical and law enforcement cooperation, mutual legal and administrative assistance. i voted in favour because i believe that the protocol to eliminate trade in tobacco to the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control is a crucial contribution to the international efforts to eliminate all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products and thereby fight the circumvention of tax and customs duties obligations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products to the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control, on behalf of the european union, as regards the provisions of that protocol on obligations relating to judicial cooperation in criminal matters and the definition of criminal offences. i support the aim of the protocol, which is to eliminate all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products. the parties to the protocol should therefore ensure that any cooperation with the tobacco industry is fully transparent. the promotion and strengthening of international cooperation, the exchange of relevant information, technical cooperation and cooperation in the field of law enforcement, and mutual legal and administrative assistance are important for the effective eradication of illicit trade in tobacco products.
in writing. ‒ i supported minor amendments to the markets in financial instruments directive, which equates third country financial markets with a regulated eu market, provided certain requirements of the directive are met. the new legal framework of that directive does, however, lay down requirements applicable to investment firms, regulated markets, data reporting services providers and third-country firms providing investment services or transactions in the union. it also harmonised the regime for the commodity derivative position limitation in order to improve transparency, support correct pricing and prevent market abuse. the deadline for transposition of the directive is the beginning of july 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending the markets in financial instruments directive as regards certain dates. the european securities and markets authority, together with the national competent authorities, should establish a system of reference data on financial instruments. this directive postpones by one year the date from which member states are to apply the measures transposing the directive into national law and the date from which the repeal of the directive takes effect. this is necessary to enable the competent national authorities and other stakeholders to complete the operational implementation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2014/65/eu on markets in financial instruments with regard to certain dates, as regulation (eu) no 600/2014 of the european parliament and of the council and directive 2014/65/eu of the european parliament and of the council are the main financial legislation acts relating to securities markets, investment firms and trading venues that were adopted as a result of the financial crisis. they set out requirements relating to the authorisation of investment firms and their activities, regulated markets and data reporting services providers. they shall coordinate the position limitation regime for commodity derivatives in order to improve transparency, support correct pricing and prevent market abuse. they also introduce rules on high-frequency trading and improve financial market supervision by harmonising administrative sanctions. the new framework requires trading venues and systematic internalisers to provide competent authorities with reference data on financial instruments. the european securities and markets authority (esma) is required to establish a financial instruments reference data system (firds) together with the national competent authorities. in order to allow esma, national authorities and stakeholders to complete the operational implementation, it is appropriate to postpone the date from which member states are to start applying the measures transposing directive 2014/65/eu and the date from which the repeal of directive 2004/39/ec takes effect by 12 months, i.e. to 3 january 2018, and to amend the directive accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2014/65/eu on markets in financial instruments as regards certain dates. regulation (eu) no 600/2014 of the european parliament and of the council and directive 2014/65/eu of the european parliament and of the council establish requirements in relation to authorisation and operation of investment firms, regulated markets and data reporting services providers. moreover, the new framework strengthens the protection of investors by introducing robust organisational and conduct requirements. i believe that, in order to ensure legal certainty and avoid potential market disruption, it is necessary and justified to take urgent action to extend the entry into application of the whole framework, including all delegated and implementing acts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending the markets in financial instruments directive as regards certain dates. that directive postpones by one year the date from which member states are to apply the measures transposing that directive into national law and the date from which its repeal takes effect. in order to ensure legal certainty and to avoid any disruption of the market, it is justified to take action to postpone the date of application of the entire framework, including all delegated and implementing acts. this is necessary to enable the competent national authorities and other stakeholders to complete the development of the new data collection infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ i also supported the proposed amendments to the regulations on the market in financial instruments, on market abuse and on improving the securities settlement regime. those regulations also determine the conduct and position of investment firms in relation to the execution of transactions for clients. investment firms often execute, on their own behalf or on behalf of their clients, transactions in derivatives and other financial instruments or assets consisting of a number of interconnected and conditional transactions. such package deals allow investment firms and their clients to better manage their risks, as the price of each element of the package reflects the overall risk profile of the whole package rather than the prevailing market price of the individual elements. package deals can take different forms, such as swaps for physical assets, trading strategies executed on trading venues or tailor-made packages, and it is important to take these specificities into account when calibrating the applicable transparency regime. the proposed amendments therefore explicitly specify when pre-trade transparency should not apply to package deals or to their individual elements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the regulation on markets in financial instruments, the regulation on market abuse and the regulation on the improvement of the securities settlement system in the european union and on central securities depositories, as regards certain dates. i support the postponement of the application of the markets in financial instruments regulation for one year, as this will allow the european securities and markets authority (esma) and other stakeholders to complete the operational implementation. in fact, esma estimates that the implementation of the data collection infrastructure, covering the requirements for the performance of the activity, specifications, development, testing and use, should be completed by the beginning of 2018.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 600/2014 on markets in financial instruments, regulation (eu) no 596/2014 on market abuse and regulation (eu) no 909/2014 on improving the regulation of securities settlement in the european union and on central securities depositories with regard to certain dates, as regulation (eu) no 600/2014 of the european parliament and of the council and directive 2014/65/eu of the european parliament and of the council are the main financial legislation acts relating to securities markets, investment firms and trading venues that were adopted as a result of the financial crisis. they set out requirements relating to the authorisation of investment firms and their activities, regulated markets and data reporting services providers. they shall coordinate the position limitation regime for commodity derivatives in order to improve transparency, support correct pricing and prevent market abuse. they also introduce rules on high-frequency trading and improve financial market supervision by harmonising administrative sanctions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 600/2014 on markets in financial instruments, regulation (eu) no 596/2014 on market abuse and regulation (eu) no 909/2014 on improving securities settlement in the european union and on central securities depositories as regards certain dates. regulation (eu) no 600/2014 and directive 2014/65/eu establish requirements in relation to authorisation and operation of investment firms, regulated markets and data reporting services providers. in addition, the new framework harmonises a position-limits regime for commodity derivatives to improve transparency, support orderly pricing and prevent market abuse. however, the absence of data collection infrastructures will also make it difficult for investment firms to apply best-execution rules. i believe that, in order to ensure legal certainty and avoid potential market disruption, it is necessary and justified to take urgent action to defer the entry into application of the whole framework, including all delegated and implementing acts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the regulation on markets in financial instruments, the regulation on market abuse and the regulation on the improvement of the securities settlement system in the european union and on central securities depositories, as regards certain dates. i agree to postpone the application of the markets in financial instruments regulation for one year, as this will allow the european securities and markets authority (esma) and other stakeholders to complete the establishment of the financial instruments reference data system (firds). the proposed regulation also aims to increase competition and protect consumers in the field of investment services.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the appointment of mr rimantas šadžius as a member of the court of auditors. the lithuanian candidate has extensive experience in the field of public finance, having been minister of finance and several times deputy minister of finance to various ministers. in addition, in the second half of 2013, he served as president of the council for economic and financial affairs of the european union during the lithuanian presidency, where he was closely involved in the adoption of the eu budget for 2014 and in cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020. he gave good answers to questions, including on independence and on improving cooperation between the court of auditors, the national audit institutions and the european parliament in the audit of the european union budget.
in writing. ‒ i supported the appointment of mr rimantas šadžius as a member of the court of auditors, as the candidate is very competent. his educational path led him first to the university of moscow, where he graduated in chemistry, and later to the faculty of law of the university of vilnius. he then served for several years in various ministries in lithuania, including twice as minister of finance. his experience in the field of public finance and budgetary planning is of particular importance for the appointment of a candidate as a member of the court of auditors. he also has experience from the lithuanian presidency of the council of the eu, having served as president of the council in its then composition. the candidate has thus demonstrated his theoretical and practical competence, which is of the utmost importance for the work of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the nomination a member of the court of auditors rimantas šadžius because there are no legal, political or personal reasons on the grounds of which an objection to his nomination would be founded.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the appointment of mr rimantas šadžius as a member of the court of auditors. i supported the candidate for member of the court of auditors because he has the appropriate education and long experience in leading positions related to public finances. i am satisfied that, as a member of the court of auditors, he will act in accordance with the requirements of the treaty, the ethical guidelines of the european court of auditors, the code of ethics for auditors and the rules of procedure of the court of auditors and the rules for its implementation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the eu report on policy coordination for development. the eu's coordinated programme on policy coordination for development has been in place since 2005, when it became clear that more than just providing development aid was needed to achieve development goals and that far-reaching strategies between development and other eu policies were needed. the 2009 lisbon treaty underlined the eu's legal obligation to implement policy coherence for development and put the achievement of coherence between the eu's external and internal policies even more in the spotlight. the proposed report analyses five priority areas (trade and finance, food security, climate change, migration and security) and makes concrete recommendations for them. the current refugee crisis and destabilisation in the eu's neighbourhood undermines the very foundations of the eu, such as the schengen system and the principle of solidarity, and development policy coordination should therefore focus on the field of external action. stabilising the eu's neighbourhood should be at the top of the eu's priority list. the combined role of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy has led to significant progress in the area of policy coordination for development, which applies to the eu's external action. however, the eu's comprehensive approach still faces serious challenges.
in writing. ‒ the european commission's fifth biennial report on policy coherence for development was published in august 2015, just before the adoption of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development at the un in new york in september. the adoption of the sdgs marked a turning point in the shaping of policy coherence for development. the sustainable development goals will require a more holistic approach to policy-making, with greater emphasis on coherence. it will also have a major impact on the implementation of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. although policy coordination for development emerged in the context of north-south relations and emphasises the responsibility of rich, developed countries towards poor developing countries, the adoption of the 2030 agenda has called this vision into question. a single and universal set of development goals has been established, which applies to all and transcends the donor-recipient paradigm. the european commission's report is a useful tool in itself to raise awareness of policy coherence for development, but it would be even more useful to take a more analytical look at its progress. i also believe that concrete recommendations on addressing the challenges of policy coherence for development should be an integral part of the report. that is why i voted to adopt the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu's 2015 report on policy coordination for development. it is important to build sustainable development through globally coordinated development policies. the resolution on policy coordination for development for 2015 analyses seven priority areas, namely the area of migration, trade and finance, food security, health, climate change, gender and security. the european council meeting on policy coordination for development would also be crucial for defining the responsibilities of individual eu institutions in achieving commitments in this area. when it comes to the sdgs, third countries should be more closely involved in eu decision-making. policy coherence for development is a key element for the implementation and achievement of the new sustainable development agenda.
in writing. ‒ i supported the eu's 2015 report on policy coherence for development, as it highlights the importance of policy coherence for sustainable development. policy coherence for development was institutionalised by the maastricht treaty, but it was only the lisbon treaty that underlined the eu's legal obligation to implement policy coherence for development, to achieve coherence between external and internal policies, and to put the eu even more at the centre of attention. the adoption of the sustainable development goals in 2015 marks a turning point in the development of sustainable development policies, which will require a more holistic approach to policy-making. the adoption of the 2030 agenda has established a single and comprehensive set of development goals. the eu still has difficulties in implementing policy coordination for development, which requires synergies between horizontal and vertical policies. the commission report is a useful tool to raise awareness of policy coherence and should contain concrete recommendations on addressing the challenges. the process of implementing policy coordination for development should involve all stakeholders, including civil society. the proper implementation of policy coordination for development requires sufficient resources and staff who must have the necessary resources to be able to develop european and national strategies on policy coordination for development.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2015 report on policy coherence for development. i believe that that pcd (policy coherence for development) is a key element for delivering and achieving the new sustainable development agenda. the report emphasises that the eu needs greater harmonisation of migration and asylum policies, both within the union itself and with its international partners. the report suggests that a truly efficient and holistic migration and asylum policy has to integrate fully eu internal and external policies.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the eu's 2015 report on policy coordination for development. i believe that policy coherence for development is a key element for the implementation and achievement of the new sustainable development agenda. the report highlights some current strategic priorities, including migration and security, where action on sustainable development and poverty eradication needs to be strengthened. national parliaments also play a key role in the implementation of policy coherence for sustainable development, ensuring regular monitoring of political commitments, monitoring and full involvement of civil society organisations, as well as monitoring of impact assessment reports prepared by governments.
in writing. ‒ i also supported the report proposed by the alliance for food safety and nutrition. the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa (nafsn) was established in 2012 under the auspices of the g8. it aims to increase private investment in agriculture to improve food security and nutrition in sub-saharan africa. it involves a number of countries, and the eu is responsible for coordinating policies in côte d'ivoire and malawi. the report thus calls on african governments to invest in family farming and agroecology, and calls for greater efforts by countries to effectively implement international standards for responsible investment in agriculture. i agree with the rapporteur on the role of aid for large public-private partnerships such as nafsn and its contribution to poverty reduction and food security in africa. there is a risk that the social and environmental risks associated with it will hit the poorest communities hardest. instead of supporting eu nafsn, donors and also national governments should invest in a sustainable model of agriculture that supports small-scale farming and women's farming and exploits the potential of domestic and regional markets. this would benefit both family farms and consumers, who would be assured of quality food at affordable prices.
in writing. ‒ the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa was established in 2012 under the auspices of the g8 as a major public-private partnership to increase private investment in agriculture, improve food security and nutrition in sub-saharan africa. i regret to note that not all stakeholders participated in the decision-making process. rural communities, farm workers, small farmers, fishermen and indigenous peoples were thus more than excluded, which means that their right to participate was not respected. on the other hand, the report has some good points. for example, it highlights the risks of public-private partnerships and the need to develop the local economy, including family farming. the report also calls for increased investment in agro-ecological practices while rejecting genetically modified crops in africa. it is also good in the report that it calls for the establishment of independent complaint mechanisms for those communities that may have been harmed by land expropriation. moreover, the report also calls for full transparency in the financing of private sector enterprises and warns that tax reforms should not exempt investors from paying taxes and give them unfair advantages over small farmers. that is why i voted in favour of the report on the new alliance for food safety and nutrition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the new alliance for food safety and nutrition. we need to remove all barriers to private investment in africa's agricultural sector to effectively pursue the goal of the new alliance for food security in africa, which aims to improve food security and help 50 million people in africa to find their way out of poverty by 2020. unfortunately, not all stakeholders participated in the decision-making process, nor were african civil society organisations consulted. i support the new alliance for food security in africa, which, in addition to promoting small-scale farming, limits the use of chemical fertilizers and pesticides, which have health and environmental consequences for local communities, wherever possible.
in writing. ‒ i supported the new alliance for food safety and nutrition. the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa (nafsn) was established in 2012 under the auspices of the g8. each participating country has adopted a framework for state cooperation. the latter contains commitments by participants relating to legislative reforms in the african countries concerned, the intentions of g7 donors regarding funding and a commitment by 180 participating companies regarding investments totalling usd 8 billion. large foreign companies and donors require strong governance structures in partner countries to ensure a fair sharing of risks and benefits between the parties involved. the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and the paris agreement on climate change of december 2015 underline the need to develop a model of agriculture that builds resilience and creates sustainable food systems. a certain degree of independence of farmers from the commercial sector should be supported by donors in order to preserve the genetic diversity of seeds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the new alliance for food security and nutrition. the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa (nafsn) aims to improve food security and nutrition by helping 50 million people in sub-saharan africa out of poverty by 2020. the report calls on governments and donors to suspend or review all policies, projects and consultancy arrangements that directly encourage and facilitate land grabbing by supporting highly harmful projects and investments or indirectly increase pressure on land and natural resources and which can result in serious human rights violations. the report urges the eu and its member states to ensure that eu-based investors implement a social responsibility policy when drawing up employment contracts and do not exploit their economic advantage over workers from local communities. i voted in favour of this report because i strongly believe in inclusive, agriculture-based growth that supports small-scale farming and helps reduce poverty, hunger and under-nutrition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the new alliance for food safety and nutrition. i agree that investments in agricultural policy in africa must be linked and must support the development of the local economy, including smallholder and family farmers. food security must be based on healthy and living soils and productive agricultural ecosystems that are resilient to climate change. the proposed measures are necessary to establish political stability in africa and to improve living standards, which will effectively halt the mass exodus of the population.
in writing. ‒ the london-based international accounting standards board is developing a range of accounting standards to create a common language for global financial reporting. the report recognises the importance of such globally applicable standards in improving competition and removing barriers to investment at a global level. international accounting standards are an important part of the eu financial services regime and supervisory framework and interact with a range of other eu financial services regulations, including in the area of prudential regulation. the report highlights concerns about the increasing complexity of financial reporting. standard-setting bodies should seek to strike the right balance between the need for accounting standards to reflect complex financial markets and instruments and the need for high-quality, transparent and comparable global standards that are understandable to a wide range of stakeholders. the principle of proportionality should be observed in order to allow smaller companies to be listed on a stock exchange. the report calls for further strengthening of european influence in the early stages of the development of accounting standards. the procedure involves a variety of european public and private sector actors at national and european level, sometimes with different views and interests. the report on the assessment of international accounting standards thus corresponds to my views, which is why i supported it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the evaluation of international accounting standards and the activities of the international accounting standards foundation, the european accounting standards advisory group and the committee for the protection of the public interest. the recent economic and financial crisis has shown that accounting reporting standards need to be reviewed and improved. we also need good accounting standards for the development of the single capital market in the european union and the strengthening of the single market, and consequently, of course, for the competitiveness of the european economy.
in writing. ‒ i supported the evaluation of international accounting standards (ias) and the activities of the international accounting standards foundation (iasf), the european financial reporting advisory group (efrag) and the public interest committee (piob), as international standards are important for improving competition and removing barriers to investment at a global level. they are an important part of the financial services regime and the eu supervisory framework. the crisis has shown the need for their renewal and improvement. the international accounting standards board (iasb), an independent body, is responsible for the development of international accounting standards. international accounting standards should apply the principle of proportionality in order to allow smaller companies to be listed on stock exchanges. consistency and coherence within the existing set of international accounting standards should be ensured, while also taking into account the other eu financial services regulation. in order for european accounting standards to be in the interest of the european economy, ifrs need to be approved in order to become part of eu legislation. in order to ensure a level playing field in the single market, accounting standards should be respected and consistently applied.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on international accounting standards (ias) evaluation because i believe that a core component of achieving the true and fair view of the figures set out in the accounts is prudent evaluation. the report emphasises that only simple rules can be effectively applied by users and controlled by supervisors. moreover, the report supports the commission recommendations that the monitoring board of the ifrs foundation should shift the focus of its attention from the issue of internal organisation to discussing matters of public interest.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the evaluation of international accounting standards and the activities of the international accounting standards foundation, the european accounting standards advisory group and the committee for the protection of the public interest. international accounting standards (ias) and international auditing standards (ias) are one of the essential elements for the effective functioning of the internal market and capital markets. international accounting standards are intended to protect shareholders, members and third parties or market participants. in order to protect investments, transparency should be ensured by improving the international comparability and quality of financial information and by enabling investors and other market participants to make informed business decisions.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report, which reminds us that the african peace facility (with a 25 000 strong african standby force) is the eu’s primary mechanism for cooperation with africa, currently placing emphasis on exit strategies and increased burden-sharing with african countries, targeted support and improved decision-making procedures. eu contributions to un and au operations may include exchange of intelligence, information, technologies, critical enablers, training or logistical support, and development of rules of engagement in peace preservation and crisis management. the report states that the eu and un should significantly focus its support on capacity—building and strengthening african ownership in order for the au to independently supervise the security situation in africa.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to increase the european union's contribution to peacekeeping operations and to cooperation with the un and the african union. the report highlights the fact that european countries and the eu are the main source of un contributions through the funding of programmes and projects. eu member states collectively contribute the most to the un's peace support budget - 37% - and also send troops to as many as nine peacekeeping missions. the eu treaty prohibits expenditure from the eu budget for the purpose of operations of a military or defence nature, but does not explicitly exclude the financing of military missions, such as peacekeeping operations with development objectives. the report also highlights the eu's participation in crisis management activities in africa to maintain peace, prevent conflict and strengthen international security in accordance with the un charter. the report thus highlights the importance of greater investment in conflict prevention in view of political and religious radicalisation, electoral violence, climate change and population displacement. the role of peacekeeping assistance for africa is recognised as essential in the development of the tripartite partnership between the un, the eu and the au. although the report is quite good, i am sceptical about strengthening european military cooperation to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the european contribution to un peacekeeping missions, which is why i abstained from the vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on peace support operations eu cooperation with the un and the african union. they face an unstable and dangerous environment in third countries. particularly with regard to the security situation in africa, the rise of terrorist and insurgent groups in recent years has put security to the test. peace operations are primarily intended to help create an environment for a more stable and secure life in third countries. i support coordinated external action and better management of complex partnerships without duplication of work or missions. i therefore support the call for an assessment and rationalisation of existing structures.
in writing. ‒ peace support operation eu engagement with the un and the african union i supported as the main mechanism for european engagement with the african union is peace assistance for africa, which provides eur 1.9 billion from the european development fund. the eu provides technical and financial support to the african union and other subregional organisations, and conducts advisory and training activities within the framework of its csdp missions, thereby contributing to strengthening african capacities in crisis management. peace is key to the development of the new 2030 agenda for sustainable development, and the security situation in africa has changed dramatically in recent decades with the rise of terrorist and insurgent groups in somalia, nigeria and the sahel region. the african union has different constraints than the un and can support either side and intervene without invitation even if a peace agreement has not been signed, while still respecting the un charter. the latter continues to play a major role in ensuring international peace and security, as it has the most comprehensive framework for multilateral cooperation in crisis management.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on peace support operations – eu engagement with the un and the african union. i strongly believe that investing more in conflict prevention is crucial, taking account of factors such as political and religious radicalisation, election-related violence, population displacements and climate change. the report stresses the need for coordinated external actions that make use of diplomatic, security and development tools to restore confidence and tackle the challenges of wars, internal conflicts, insecurity, fragility and transition. the report equally underlines the importance of early communication and enhanced procedures for crisis consultation with the un and the au, as well as other organisations such as nato and the osce.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on peace support operations eu cooperation with the un and the african union. as the report concludes, the volatile security situation in africa requires a coordinated global response that goes beyond security considerations. the report calls on member states to engage in a coordinated external action, using diplomatic, security and development tools, to rebuild trust and address the challenges of war, internal conflict, insecurity, instability and transition.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by mr czesak on unfair trading practices in the food supply chain, which after many months of coordination was only ready for approval. we need to take the fight against unfair trading practices in the food chain to the next level, because we see that voluntary agreements are not the way forward. farmers are in a subordinate position in the food chain vis-à-vis well-organised and concentrated trade, and the pressure on the purchase prices of agricultural products and the poor organisation of farmers are now contributing to the deterioration of the situation. in such circumstances, farmers are at the mercy of merchants who also own the manufacturing industry, and they often sell below production price just to keep the business going. this situation is not sustainable in the long term and it is therefore essential to start developing a legislative framework at eu level as soon as possible, which will clearly define the rules of the game. the main emphasis should be on increasing competition in the field of trade and promoting the integration of farmers to better resist the pressures of large and concentrated trade. only then will it be possible to establish appropriate conditions of competition in the markets and fair relations between farmers, suppliers and traders. this will benefit all involved.
in writing. ‒ unfair trading practices in the food supply chain between businesses and suppliers are a major problem in the eu, but unfortunately not sufficiently exposed. in general, they could be defined as those which are far from good commercial practice, contrary to good faith and fair dealing and imposed unilaterally by one trading partner on another. small and medium-sized enterprises and farmers are disadvantaged and face difficulties. many member states are taking action against such practices, while other member states are only planning to take similar measures. the rules in this area vary considerably between member states, as does the scale of the problem. member states that do not have an enforcement authority are invited to consider establishing one and to give it the powers to monitor and enforce measures necessary to eliminate unfair trading practices. the report also calls for the creation of transparent retail prices, which will better reflect the added value generated by primary producers. the report also calls on all parties in the food supply chain to consider standard contracts as well as next generation contracts where risks and benefits are shared. i think that the report is good and i have supported it.
in writing. ‒ i voted for a report on unfair trading practices in the food supply chain. despite the commission's many efforts to reduce unfair trading practices in the food supply chain, there is still much room for improvement. it should be borne in mind that unfairness in the food supply chain is a serious problem that occurs in many economic sectors and causes market distortions. i agree with the report that the principles of good practice and the list of examples of fair and unfair practices in vertical relationships in the food supply chain should be extended and applied effectively.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on unfair trading practices in the food supply chain. unfair trading practices are those which are significantly different from good business practice, contrary to good faith and fair dealing and unilaterally imposed by one trading partner on another. unfair trading practices need to be tackled because they have a detrimental impact on the eu economy, as smes lose their capacity to invest and innovate, and consequently do not choose to expand their business in the single market. so far, 20 member states have introduced legislation in the field of combating unfair trading practices. large corporations have become a state within a state and operate under their own production conditions, which in certain cases are hampered by national legislation. the issue concerns the whole of the european union and requires a response from the european union. unfair trading practices need to be clearly identified, decisively addressed and eliminated.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on unfair trading practices in the food supply chain. the report puts forward proposals against unfair trading practices in the food supply chain in order to ensure fair earnings for farmers and a wide choice for consumers. the aim of the report is to ensure fair and transparent trade relations among food producers, suppliers and distributors. fair-trading should in turn help to prevent overproduction and food waste. farmers and small and medium businesses are particularly vulnerable to unfair trading practices (utps). they are sometimes forced to sell at a loss when price negotiations with a stronger party put them at a disadvantage. i voted in favour because i am of the view that income and power imbalances in the food supply chain have to be tackled as a matter of urgency in order to improve farmers’ bargaining power.
in writing. - i voted for a report on unfair trading practices in the food supply chain. unfair trading practices are mainly the result of imbalances in income and power in the food supply chain and therefore need to be urgently addressed and the situation of farmers in the food sector improved. i join the call on the commission to draw up proposals against unfair trading practices in the food supply chain, so that farmers have a fair income and consumers have a wide choice.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed report on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture. projections show that food demand is expected to increase by as much as 70% by 2050. enhancing technological innovation in agriculture is therefore crucial both to meet the demand for healthy food and to manage the environmental risks that can result from unsustainable agricultural practices. that is why i support technological development in agriculture, because without the appropriate progress, agriculture will not be able to meet the basic expectations: to feed people with safe food, to provide farmers with a decent income and to maintain consumer confidence. research and the targeted transfer of knowledge to practice play a major role in this. this kind of research will have a future if we can motivate young people to work in agriculture or agricultural research, because they are the agents of change. research also needs to be more transparent, as this is important to maintain consumer confidence in the safety of european food. i also support research into new methods of plant protection, research to ensure food safety and research to provide answers to the questions posed by climate change.
in writing. ‒ given the growth of the world's population, one of the biggest challenges facing the world is how to meet the demand for healthy food and optimal nutrition. food demand is expected to increase by 70% by 2050. the decline in available land, environmental damage and degradation, water scarcity, increased energy demand and the emergence of new pests and diseases are putting considerable pressure on the natural environment. as a result, the report points out, it is becoming increasingly difficult for farmers to produce food in a sustainable way. while i understand the facts about the world's population growth, i am opposed to some of the technologies supported in the report, which promote the intensification of the industrialization of agriculture, such as new technologies for growing genetically modified mechanisms. i also think it's more than positive that the report threatens the nagoya protocol on access to genetic resources and fair and equitable sharing of benefits. moreover, i object to the use of the above-mentioned world population growth in the report for the purpose of justifying food production intensity in contravention of the principles of food sovereignty. in summary, i think the technological solutions mentioned in the report are quite poor, which is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a report on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture in the eu. with the world's growing population, malnutrition, obesity, and various cardiovascular diseases, there is a growing need to produce more safe, healthy, and nutritious food. as in other sectors, innovation in the agricultural sector can contribute to achieving sustainable agriculture in the european union. in addition, a variety of innovative approaches can help to protect the environment, in addition to increasing farmers' incomes and using resources more efficiently. i join the call to industry, the commission and the member states to work together to improve the efficiency and adaptability of robotic and other techniques in precision agriculture, thereby increasing demand and investment by farmers and the efficient use of funds for agricultural and horticultural research.
in writing. ‒ i have supported technological solutions for sustainable agriculture in the eu. one of the biggest challenges today is how to meet the demand for healthy food, which is expected to increase by 70% by 2050. technological innovation is a key part of the solution, as agricultural technologies have the potential to increase productivity and sustainability of agriculture. the european union should become a world leader in agricultural technology, innovation and sustainability. european agriculture is lagging behind its international competitors, and this can only change if there is a sustained and prioritised investment in the research base. the starting point should be targeted investment in applied and translational research. although farmers and scientists play different roles in the innovation process, better outcomes can only be achieved if both parties work more closely together. providing the necessary knowledge and skills and attracting the right expertise to the industry will be key. it is also important to create a regulatory environment that is conducive to innovation, while ensuring that eu rules do not hamper it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture in the eu. the report emphasises that the agriculture sector has always relied on new farm business models and practices that include new techniques and production methods to increase outputs and adapt to new and changing circumstances. the report equally underlines that ecosystem services, such as nutrient cycling, are of central importance to agriculture, and that some functions, such as carbon sequestration, go beyond food production. i voted in favour because i am convinced that innovation has the potential to contribute to achieving sustainable agriculture in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a report on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture in the eu. global food demand is expected to increase by 70% by 2050. providing optimal and healthy nutrition is one of the greatest challenges facing the world. the shrinking of available land, loss of the environment, water scarcity, increased demand for energy, the emergence of new pests and diseases are putting a heavy burden on the agricultural sector. to ensure a sustainable agricultural sector in the eu, it is essential to develop a wide range of innovative technologies in all types of farming.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by mr huiteme. the european agricultural sector is of crucial importance to the eu. in addition to its core mission of providing healthy and quality food, it is a hugely important economic pillar, employing 25 million people. these are either directly engaged in agriculture or employed in the food and retail sector. eu agriculture continues to set the standards for agricultural practices around the world that produce high added value products, providing knowledge-based solutions to feed a growing and increasingly demanding population. technological innovation can therefore make a major contribution to improving land use and saving resources. so-called precision farming will transform agriculture and help us to invest fewer resources to produce more kilograms of crops. it will also contribute to more targeted action against diseases or pests. agriculture therefore needs to be better aligned with other industrial sectors (chemicals, health and technology), and cross-sectoral knowledge integration and motivating young people to farm will play an important role in this.
in writing. ‒ changes in agricultural practices are structural or linked to production processes. they make agriculture one of the most dynamic sectors. as this sector is among the first to adopt new technology, the rural economy can thrive and keep pace with the general economic development. the food and agriculture organization of the united nations estimates that the expected increase in the world's population will require an increase in food supply. there is thus a need to increase and improve agricultural production with fewer resources, in particular due to pressure on natural resources and the related impacts on biodiversity, environmental vulnerability, climate change and land scarcity. however, i think the report is a bit ambiguous and could be interpreted as supporting innovations that are contrary to my principles. while i understand that these are necessary for progress, it is necessary to ensure that they are healthy, environmentally friendly and do not have negative consequences in other areas. i object to the mention of drones and certain sections of the report that suggest the possibility of supporting genetically modified mechanisms. although the report advocates the idea that greater transparency in the supply chain and production can help consumers make more informed purchasing decisions, which i agree with, i think the report should be improved. that's why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on strengthening innovation and economic development in european farm management in the future. as in other sectors, the agricultural sector is facing major advances and the development of new methods, techniques and production methods. this has increased farmers' yields while reducing production costs. the report rightly concludes that economic development and sustainable production are not mutually exclusive and can be achieved through innovation, research and development, new management and improved agronomy. this is why we need to encourage innovation in technology and management.
in writing. ‒ i supported the strengthening of innovation and economic development in european farm management in the future. the agricultural sector is one of the most dynamic economic sectors and one of the first to adopt new technologies. the ecological footprint of agricultural production should be reduced in order to alleviate the pressure on the environment. more attention should be paid to the needs of farmers without compromising the achievement of policy objectives, which means allowing sufficient flexibility to enhance innovation and competitiveness. targeted incentives in the production process and investments are of paramount importance. agriculture needs to be better aligned with other industrial sectors, knowledge integration needs to be strengthened, the use of resources needs to be integrated and the interactions better understood in order to optimise their interaction and better integrate agriculture into the market economy. the european agricultural sector is of vital importance to the whole of the european union in terms of food security and employment for 25 million people. it also sets standards for agricultural practice worldwide and enables the production of products with high added value.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on enhancing innovation and economic development in future european farm management. i am strongly committed to unleashing agriculture’s innovative potential in order to produce more quality products, ensure food supplies and fight climate change more effectively. i believe that agriculture is one of the most innovative economic sectors. however, although farmers have the capacity and the knowledge to innovate, they find themselves limited by obsolete legislation or rules. it is of crucial importance to trust farmers and to use the power of innovation and the power of nature in order to reach our common goals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on strengthening innovation and economic development in european farm management in the future. the report highlights the importance of innovation for sustainable agricultural production and stresses the importance of introducing advanced production techniques by small and medium-sized family farms, which are an integral part of european agriculture. i agree that economic development and sustainable production are not mutually exclusive and that innovation, research and development of production techniques should be encouraged.
i welcome the european commission's proposal for a new migration deal presented today. so far, we have only put out the fire in europe with a variety of actions, short-term, that were necessary to temporarily stem the flow of migrants. with the new dublin regulation and the new migration agreement, we are moving towards a comprehensive solution and a long-term solution. the €8 billion in financial assistance will be used first of all by partner countries in africa and the middle east to improve migration management, in particular border control, asylum management, fight against corruption and so on. an important part of this proposal is the establishment of entry points in the countries of origin. in particular, i welcome the idea of a european external investment fund, which must be created with private capital and which must also be development-oriented. only investments in the real economy and in the social environment can have the effect of deterring many from the risky path to europe and beyond. we are committed to making development aid paid by european taxpayers (much more than by the us and china, by the way) more selective in the future. those countries that meet their international obligations, that are willing to take back their nationals and that cooperate in managing the flows of illegal migrants and even offer international protection to third-country nationals should be rewarded. irresponsible and uncooperative governments need to be removed from aid, trade and visa privileges. (the speaker agreed to accept the question raised by the blue card (rule 149 (8)).
answer to the question posed by raising the blue card. the fact is that this idea, this concept is meant as juncker plan 2 for countries outside the european union. and it's normal that without investment, foreign investment, especially european investment (europe also contributes the most to development aid, more than other countries, more than america and so on), without that there will be no economic recovery and no prosperity in those countries where the refugees come from. so i think this fund is the most important idea and the most important action of the european union in preventing migration in the long term.
the question asked by raising the blue card. after 23 june, it is certain that the pressure of the flow of migrants from africa and other countries will continue for years. do you think that after june 23rd, if britain leaves the european union, it will not be the country that will be partly involved in solving this humanitarian problem? and do you think that if you don't cooperate, the problems will go away on their own without the british caring about it or doing anything to help solve the problem?
the fact that we are now entering into partnerships with african countries is actually a cause for concern. poverty in africa is not a problem of yesterday. we should have done this a long time ago. but that's not a criticism of the proposal. i just wish it wasn't too late. the european union is a major player in the world economy, and the european union is the world's largest trading partner. i agree that the refugee and migration crisis is not just a european problem, and in this i support you in your global approach. but i wonder what those rewards and consequences are you're talking about when you're unveiling the compact for members who don't participate. i agree that more investment is needed and also a change in approach. but first, not in a way that simply transfers the burden to the african continent and closes europe's borders. and secondly, not in a way that european money gets into the wrong hands. we need to be very strict about who and how we allocate funds. it is essential to ensure that we have sincere and honest partners in african countries. at the same time, it is also essential to strengthen legal and safe pathways for immigration to europe, as you say. we heard that the balkan route was closed, that there were fewer deaths in the mediterranean, but that human trafficking was increasing and new migration routes were opening up. i can't get past the inconceivable fact that refugees in greece can only apply for asylum via skype. these are things that can be improved immediately and give people hope. finally, i agree that european governance of migration requires a long-term, strategic approach. but it must not be limited to curbing the flow of money from africa, but must also be directed towards establishing genuine cooperation with africa, which will strengthen the continent politically and economically, in cooperation with europe and in contacts between peoples.
i have no doubt that the successful integration of migrants into the countries of the european union, into european society, is our common goal. to do this, we need common, balanced, uniform and comprehensive european rules that all european countries will unconditionally respect. the blue card as a legal instrument for resettlement is a tool that has been used far too infrequently similar to humanitarian visas to date, although it could solve many problems. the blue card reduces black market work, which benefits only the profiteers, contributes positively to integration and reduces discrimination against migrants. equal treatment and equal pay is not only a way of ensuring the social integration of migrants, but also contributes to the fight against social dumping in general. but we need a single blue card that covers the whole european market, not just the 28 countries. working and living conditions and access to education for migrant workers and their children, irrespective of their status, are essential factors for their integration into the social and economic sphere of the host country, and measures to this end must be implemented at national, regional and local level. but the adoption of rules or measures is pointless and doomed to failure if we know that they are fragmented and left to the discretion of individual countries, and if we know that certain countries do not comply with them and even openly predict it. to mention relocation: hungary and slovakia have not yet expressed a willingness to relocate people. some countries, such as the czech republic, bulgaria, estonia, refuse resettlement requests without good reasons. poland is invoking a freeze that was never granted. this is simply unacceptable and will not bring europe back to life.
on behalf of the s&d group. for almost a decade, the european parliament has been calling on the governments of the eu member states to take serious action. a us senate report has revealed that the cia used methods of brutal interrogation and torture on european soil after the september 11 attacks. european governments must recognise that this is not just a shameful but a serious violation of fundamental rights and european values. new evidence is still coming to light. a delegation from the libe committee visited romania last autumn, but the authorities did not allow us to enter the building of the alleged detention facility. it was different in lithuania before that. the european parliament's own report on this mission has been instrumental in unlocking some of the secrets. the decisive event, as mentioned earlier, was the publication of the u.s. senate report. it revealed not only the scale of the crimes but also that torture is ineffective in the fight against terrorism. under international law, there can be no excuse for such acts. and we need to show that we're serious by prosecuting those responsible. it was the most systematic violation of human rights and humanitarian law on european soil since the second world war. individual european governments have not completed detailed investigations into alleged involvement, much less taken action against those responsible or at least assumed moral responsibility. sadly, the confidential information contained in the senate torture report seems to have been obtained only by the hollywood movie industry. whereas civil society, ngos and even advocates of detention have not achieved this. dozens of people are still being held at guantanamo bay without charge or trial. investigations in individual member states need to continue in order to establish the extent of the involvement. these violations will never go away, and no carpet is big enough to sweep them under. it is our collective responsibility to close this most shameful chapter in our european history and to ensure that it never happens again. i call on my colleagues to vote in favour of the resolution tomorrow.
mr katainen, first of all, congratulations on the first year of operation of the fund. i think he surprised me in a lot of ways. he also pointed out some shortcomings. they were mentioned here today, and i personally think that one of the key shortcomings is the lack of investment in the countries that need it most. this is not your fault. i think that this is largely the fault of the member states, which have not prepared themselves sufficiently and have not built the infrastructure for this type of investment. similar fate has befallen the cohesion funds in the previous perspective and also in the present one, where more complex projects have to be prepared. i therefore recommend that you do your utmost to help us promote this in the member states where these projects are not available and where they are urgently needed, and that in this way the countries also come to terms with their developmental backwardness, because otherwise europe will be less cohesive than it is today.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft decision setting up a committee of inquiry to examine alleged breaches and irregularities in the application of union law relating to money laundering, tax evasion and tax evasion, its powers, numerical composition and mandate. i support the establishment of a committee of inquiry to look into whether the commission and the member states are not complying with directives and other regulations. one of the assumptions to be investigated is that the authorities of the member states have not applied administrative sanctions and other administrative measures in the cases of institutions found to be responsible for serious infringements of national rules. one of the allegations relating to the commission, which will be examined by the research committee, is that the commission did not enforce the directive on the communication of tax information to other member states on its own initiative.
in writing. ‒ i supported the establishment of a committee of inquiry to examine alleged breaches and irregularities in the application of union law relating to money laundering, tax evasion and tax evasion, its powers, numerical composition and mandate. the committee of inquiry will be tasked with examining several hypotheses related to the implementation of the various directives, both by the european commission and the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the setting up of a committee of inquiry to investigate alleged contraventions and maladministration in the application of union law in relation to money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion, its powers, numerical strength and term of office. the main task of the committee of inquiry is to investigate alleged contraventions and maladministration in the application, of european union law in relation to money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft decision setting up a committee of inquiry to examine alleged breaches and irregularities in the application of union law relating to money laundering, tax evasion and tax evasion, its powers, numerical composition and mandate. the establishment of an inquiry committee will not only help to identify alleged infringements and irregularities, but will also indirectly contribute to better harmonisation of directives into national legislation relating to money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion.
in writing. - i supported the proposed report. the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of a deepening of relations between the eu and the republic of palau, which has a major political significance in the context of the cotonou agreement. the agreement also serves as an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and of deepening political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the visa waiver agreement will be able to bring about positive effects by simplifying travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitating investment and promoting tourism. palau's economy is based mainly on the service sector, which contributes 86% of gdp, and the tourism sector is also developing rapidly due to the increased number of air connections to the island. palau has one of the highest standards of living in the pacific. investment and trade between the eu and palau are still fluctuating and weak in absolute and relative terms, but have great development potential, which will be further enhanced by such an agreement.
in writing. ‒ i supported this agreement with the republic of palau on short-stay visa facilitation, which provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of the republic of palau for all purposes other than carrying out a paid activity when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party. this is to be available for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period and takes into account the situation of member states outside of the schengen acquis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of palau on the short-stay visa waiver. i support the conclusion of an agreement allowing visa-free travel for all categories of persons for any purpose other than paid employment to nationals of the member states and the republic of palau. the conclusion of the agreement on the abolition of the visa requirement for eu citizens and for the republic of palau is also a result of the good relations between the european union and the republic of palau.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of palau on the short-stay visa waiver, as the agreement allows citizens of the european union and palau to travel without a visa to the territory of the other party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. the agreement is the result of a deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of palau, which has a great political significance in the framework of the cotonou agreement, and will further strengthen economic and cultural relations. it will simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and encourage tourism. in recent years, tourism has become one of the main industries of the island nation, whose economy is primarily based on the service sector. palau is a democratic republic and, like the eu, is committed to the values and principles of democracy, good governance, respect for human rights and the rule of law. visa waiver is an important step towards closer eu-pacific relations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of palau on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of palau when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. i believe that this agreement represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of palau, which is politically highly significant in the context of the cotonou agreement. moreover, the agreement is an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of palau on the short-stay visa waiver. visa liberalisation is an important tool for bringing european and pacific nations closer together, simplifying travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitating investment and promoting tourism.
in writing. ‒ i also supported the proposed eu-tongo visa waiver report for short stays. the trust in visa applicants in tonga is high, as the rejection rate is low and no asylum applications have been lodged by nationals of tonga. in fact, migration flows have been increasingly directed to new zealand, australia and the united states, and much less to the european union. it should be noted that the state does not constitute a threat in terms of illegal migration, nor does it endanger security and public order. the abolition of the visa requirement will also, in my view, make a significant contribution to the rapprochement of european and pacific peoples. the visa waiver agreement allows citizens to take advantage of the full benefits of the acp-eu partnership and to travel at lower cost in economic and practical terms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of tonga on the short-stay visa waiver. i support the conclusion of an agreement allowing citizens of the member states and the kingdom of tonga to travel without a visa for 90 days for all categories of persons travelling for any purpose other than paid employment. the conclusion of the agreement reflects the good relations between the european union and the kingdom of tonga, and also the promise of further enhanced cooperation, particularly in the area of human rights and fundamental freedoms dialogue in tonga.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of tonga on the short-stay visa waiver, as the agreement allows citizens of the european union and citizens of the kingdom of tonga to travel without a visa to the territory of the other party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. the agreement is the result of a deepening of relations between the european union and the kingdom of tonga, which has a major political significance in the context of the cotonou agreement, and will also contribute to strengthening economic and cultural relations and deepening political dialogue on various issues. since the first democratic elections in 2010, the political dialogue between the eu and the kingdom of tonga has been steadily strengthening. the country has made considerable progress in that time. the country's economy is based mainly on the agricultural and service sectors, and tourism is gradually developing. the abolition of visa requirements is an important step towards bringing the eu and the pacific nations closer together, as it would support the country and its many endeavours.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of tonga on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of tonga when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. i believe that this agreement represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the kingdom of tonga, which is politically highly significant in the context of the cotonou agreement. moreover, the agreement is an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of tonga on the short-stay visa waiver, as the kingdom of tonga does not pose a threat in terms of irregular migration, nor does it pose a threat to security and public order. the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of a deepening of relations between the european union and the kingdom of tonga and will allow citizens to travel at lower cost in economic and practical terms.
in writing. ‒ i agree to the conclusion of the agreement with the republic of colombia on facilitating the issue of short-stay visas. this provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of the republic of colombia when travelling to the corresponding territory on a short-term basis for all purposes other than carrying out a paid activity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of colombia on the short-stay visa waiver. i support the conclusion of an agreement allowing citizens of the member states and of the republic of colombia to travel without a visa for 90 days for all categories of persons travelling for any purpose other than paid employment. the agreement provides an excellent opportunity to deepen relations between the two contracting parties, including by strengthening political dialogue on issues related to human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of colombia on the short-stay visa waiver on behalf of the european union, as it represents a deepening of cultural, economic and, above all, political relations between the eu and colombia. visa liberalisation would also allow for further cooperation in the field of human rights. trade between the two is very important and the agreement would allow for even closer cooperation and a new impetus in the field of trade. the eu is closely monitoring the human rights situation in the country, which has been marked by a long conflict with the farc guerrillas. progress has been made in this area and could even lead to a final peace agreement in the near future. colombia can also become a key partner in the field of security and the fight against organised crime, in particular drug trafficking, which can be an important aspect of cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of colombia on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement allows citizens of the european union and colombia to travel without a visa to the territory of the other party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. the agreement also serves as an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations, and of deepening political dialogue on various issues and cooperation in the field of irregular migration.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement in the form of a declaration on the extension of the agreement on trade in information technology products (itp). the existing agreement, which covers 200 tariff lines, eliminates customs duties on information technology products. however, given the enormous progress made in recent years in the field of information technology, the existing agreement obviously needs to be updated, as trade in the sector has increased fourfold. it is therefore essential to upgrade the existing agreement in order to increase the range of products covered by the existing agreement.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of an agreement in the form of a declaration on the extension of the agreement on trade in information technology products (itp). the parties shall endeavour to ensure that the information technology products covered by this agreement are not subject to customs duties or other duties. the agreement covers some 200 tariff headings relating to computers and telephones, raw materials, components and machinery for the production of information technology products. the duty-free treatment has contributed significantly to the development and expansion of trade, which has quadrupled in the 20 years since the agreement entered into force. following the signature of the agreement, the signatories were required to present timetables with a gradual reduction of duties for all products over a seven-year phase-out period, which means that by 2019 imports of all products concerned will be exempt from customs duties. the eu exports €189 billion worth of products covered by the ita, and this is expected to increase. the agreement can only be fully exploited if a larger number of member states accede to it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of an agreement in the form of the declaration on the expansion of trade in information technology products (ita). the agreement requires that each participant eliminates and binds customs duties at zero on a most favoured nation basis for all information technology (it) products covered. i voted in favour because i believe that the expansion of the ita is a landmark deal with a huge potential to create jobs and boost gdp growth.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement in the form of a declaration on the extension of the agreement on trade in information technology products (itp), as the agreement on the extension of the itp has a high potential for job creation and gdp growth.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft council decision on the imposition of control measures on the new psychoactive substance 1-phenyl-2- ((1-pirolidin-1-yl) pentan-1-one (α-pirolidinovalerophenone, α-pvp). α-pvp is a potent psychostimulant and there are 115 known deaths and 191 known acute poisonings in the eight member states where α-pvp has been detected. there is no information available or published studies that have comprehensively assessed the health risks associated with α-pvp, namely chronic and acute toxicity, but similar effects to those seen with other stimulants have been observed in animals. for this reason, it is necessary to introduce control measures and criminal sanctions in member states for α-pvp, as provided for by their legislation in accordance with their obligations under the united nations convention on psychotropic substances.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council decision on subjecting the new psychoactive substance 1-phenyl-2-(1-pyrrolidin-1-yl) pentan-1-one (α-pyrrolidinovalerophenone, α-pvp) to control measures. council decision 2005/387/jha on the information exchange, risk-assessment and control of new psychoactive substances provides for a three-step procedure that may lead to the submission of a new psychoactive substance to control measures across the union. based on the findings of the risk assessment report the commission, i believe that there are grounds for subjecting this substance to control measures across the union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft council decision on the imposition of control measures on the new psychoactive substance 1-phenyl-2- ((1-pirolidin-1-yl) pentan-1-one (α-pirolidinovalerophenone, α-pvp). careful monitoring is necessary as α-pvp is a new potent psychostimulant that poses a higher health risk.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the interim report on the draft council decision on the ratification and accession of the 2010 protocol to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea by member states, on behalf of the union, with the exception of aspects relating to judicial cooperation in civil matters. the 2010 convention aimed to provide for adequate, prompt and effective compensation for damage to persons, property and the environment resulting from the carriage of dangerous and harmful substances by sea. i open the procedure for the adoption of an opinion in the form of a letter in which we stress that member states accede to the protocol and accept the rules of the convention as binding, since the convention covers not only cases of environmental damage but also cases of non-environmental damage.
in writing. ‒ i supported the interim report on the draft council decision on the ratification and accession of the 2010 protocol to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea by member states on behalf of the union, with the exception of aspects relating to judicial cooperation in civil matters. the 2010 convention establishes the objective liability of the owner of a ship carrying dangerous and harmful substances for damage resulting from an incident related to the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea on board that ship. the establishment of a specialised compensation fund of approximately eur 310 million for compensation payments to persons who have suffered damage in connection with the transport of dangerous goods is important. the international arrangements in this area are more appropriate than the regional arrangements. it is in the interest of the european union to have a uniform system of liability for environmental damage.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the interim report on the draft council decision on the ratification and accession by member states, in the interest of the european union, to the protocol of 2010 to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, with the exception of the aspects related to judicial cooperation in civil matters. the 2010 hns convention establishes strict liability of the owner of the ship carrying hns for any damage resulting from an incident in connection with the carriage of hns by sea and on board that ship. i believe that the conclusion of the 2010 protocol to the hns convention will ensure uniform application of rules on liability and compensation in connection with accidents caused by ships carrying hns at sea across the eu. it will also guarantee availability of sufficient funds for compensation of victims of such accidents.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the interim report on the draft council decision on the ratification and accession of the 2010 protocol to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea by member states, on behalf of the union, with the exception of aspects relating to judicial cooperation in civil matters. the interim report calls on the member states to ratify or accede to the 2010 hns convention within a reasonable period, which should not exceed two years from the entry into force of the council decision. the objective of the 2010 hns convention is to ensure, through the dedicated hns international compensation fund, the accountability and payment of adequate, prompt and effective compensation for damage to persons, property and the environment resulting from the carriage of dangerous and harmful substances by sea.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the interim report on the draft council decision on the ratification and accession to the 2010 protocol to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea by member states, in the interest of the european union, as regards aspects related to judicial cooperation in civil matters. i support the call to the council and the commission to ensure that the international issues arising from the ratification of or accession to the 2010 hns convention will not adversely affect the unity, integrity and effectiveness of the common rules of the union, in accordance with the settled case-law of the court of justice.
in writing. ‒ i supported the interim report on the draft council decision on the ratification and accession of the 2010 protocol to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea by member states, in the interest of the european union, as regards aspects related to judicial cooperation in civil matters. the 2010 convention establishes the objective liability of the owner of a ship carrying dangerous and harmful substances for damage resulting from an incident related to the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea on board that ship. the establishment of a specialised compensation fund of approximately eur 310 million for compensation payments to persons who have suffered damage in connection with the transport of dangerous goods is important. the international arrangements in this area are more appropriate than the regional arrangements. the conclusion of the 2010 protocol to the hns convention will ensure the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation in respect of accidents caused by ships carrying dangerous and harmful substances at sea in the european union. it is in the interest of the european union to have a uniform system of liability for environmental damage.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the interim report on the draft council decision on the ratification and accession by member states, in the interest of the european union, to the protocol of 2010 to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, with regard to the aspects related to judicial cooperation in civil matters. the 2010 hns convention establishes strict liability of the owner of the ship carrying hns for any damage resulting from an incident in connection with the carriage of hns by sea and on board that ship. i believe that the conclusion of the 2010 protocol to the hns convention will ensure uniform application of rules on liability and compensation in connection with accidents caused by ships carrying hns at sea across the eu. it will also guarantee availability of sufficient funds for compensation of victims of such accidents.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the interim report on the draft council decision on the ratification and accession to the 2010 protocol to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea by member states, in the interest of the european union, as regards aspects related to judicial cooperation in civil matters. i support the purpose of the convention, which establishes, inter alia, the objective liability of the shipowner for all damage caused by the carriage of dangerous and health-damaging substances by sea under the convention and the obligation of the shipowner to take out insurance or obtain other financial security to cover his liability under the convention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, was signed in phnom penh on 11 july 2012, croatia's accession to the european union making it a party to the agreement. in doing so, it will, of course, accept and comply with the text of the agreement in the same way as the other member states of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. croatia is the last associated country and it is important that it is included in the eu-philippines partnership and cooperation agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. i believe that the participation of croatia in this agreement is a natural consequence of its eu accession.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union on behalf of the european union and its member states. this will allow croatia to accede, as a new member state of the european union, to the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and the republic of the philippines.
in writing. ‒ i support the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation agreement, which includes provisions on human rights, non-proliferation, counter-terrorism and the international criminal court, the peace process and disaster risk management. the pca strengthens cooperation across a wide range of policy fields, including migration, taxation, environment, energy, science and technology, maritime and air transport, tourism, culture, money laundering and terrorist financing, illicit drugs, organised crime and corruption and broadens the scope for mutual engagement in the economic and trade domain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, on behalf of the union. i support the approval of the framework partnership and cooperation agreement with the philippines as i agree that the european union will continue to provide financial support to the philippines with the aim of reducing poverty, promoting social inclusion, respect for human rights and the rule of law, promoting peace, reconciliation, security and judicial reform.
in writing. ‒ i supported, on behalf of the union, the draft council decision on the conclusion of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part. the philippines needs to continue to provide financial support and to help reduce poverty, respect human rights and the rule of law. they should be encouraged to continue to work towards eradicating corruption and respecting human rights. member states would assist in capacity building in the international fight against terrorism and extremism with regard to fundamental rights and the rule of law through cooperation with the government of the philippines in the area of intelligence sharing. the government should also be encouraged to invest in new technologies and the internet to facilitate cultural exchange and trade between the philippine islands. the partnership with the philippines is also strategically important, as they are situated close to the most important international shipping and air routes in the south china sea.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part. i believe that this agreement marks an important step towards strengthening bilateral relations and the eu’s role in south-east asia, based on shared universal values such as democracy and human rights. in addition, it paves the way for enhanced political, regional and global cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, on behalf of the union. i support the approval of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation with the philippines, which will provide financial support to the philippines in poverty reduction and strengthen cooperation in the fight against terrorism and extremism.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of concluding this agreement for the eu to continue providing financial support and capacity-building assistance to the philippines for poverty alleviation, social inclusion, respect for human rights and the rule of law, the promotion of peace, reconciliation, security and judicial reform, and assisting the country in disaster preparedness, relief and recovery and the implementation of effective policies to tackle climate change. engaging with the philippines to exchange intelligence, cooperate and provide support for the government’s capacity-building in the international fight against terrorism and extremism should be beneficial to all actors.
in writing. ‒ the report welcomes the conclusion of the framework partnership and cooperation agreement with the philippines and highlights the view that the european union should continue to provide financial support and capacity building assistance to the philippines in order to reduce poverty, promote social inclusion, respect human rights and the rule of law, promote peace, reconciliation and security and judicial reform. at the same time, the report also calls on the european union to help the country prepare for disasters, provide aid and reconstruction, and implement effective policies to combat climate change. the report encourages the government of the philippines to continue to support further progress in the eradication of corruption and the promotion of respect for human rights. at the same time, the report also expresses concern at the continued reporting of serious human rights violations by the philippine military and in particular by paramilitary units in the implementation of counterinsurgency measures. the report also calls on the philippine government to build capacity in the area of systematic data collection on trafficking in human beings and to cooperate with the european union in this regard in order to combat trafficking in human beings more effectively. although i believe that the report could have been more critical of the resolution on respect for human rights, the rule of law and good governance, i still think it is relevant and that is why i supported it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report with a motion for a non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, on behalf of the union. the philippines is a model for other countries in the region in the field of international and national human rights law. i support the call on the philippine government to build capacity in the area of systematic data collection on trafficking in human beings, while at the same time supporting the eu and member states in their efforts to improve assistance and support to victims, to adopt effective law enforcement measures, to improve legal means of labour migration and to ensure the dignified treatment of filipino migrants in third countries.
in writing. ‒ i supported, on behalf of the union, the motion for a non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part. the philippines should continue to be provided with financial support and assistance in poverty reduction, respect for human rights and the rule of law. they should be encouraged to continue to work towards eradicating corruption and respecting human rights. member states would assist in capacity building in the international fight against terrorism and extremism with regard to fundamental rights and the rule of law through cooperation with the government of the philippines in the area of intelligence sharing. the government should also be encouraged to invest in new technologies and the internet to facilitate cultural exchange and trade between the philippine islands. the partnership with the philippines is also strategically important, as they are situated close to the most important international shipping and air routes in the south china sea.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report containing a motion for a non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part. the report considers that the eu should continue providing financial support and capacity-building assistance to the philippines for poverty alleviation, social inclusion, respect for human rights and the rule of law, the promotion of peace, reconciliation, security and judicial reform. the report encourages the philippine government to continue fostering further progress in the elimination of corruption and the promotion of human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report with a motion for a non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and the republic of the philippines. the eu is the most important foreign investor and trading partner of the philippines, which has a strategic location near the most important international shipping and air routes in the south china sea, and therefore there is a need to maintain a deepened cooperation between the countries.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal to provide an additional macro-financial assistance to tunisia for a total maximum amount of eur 500 million, provided in the form of a medium-term loan. the assistance will contribute to cover tunisia’s residual external financial needs in 2016-17, as identified by the commission based on the estimate of the imf.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council providing further macro-financial assistance to tunisia. i support the granting of financial assistance to tunisia, which has made great progress in the areas of democracy, the protection of human rights, reforms which fully meet the political conditions required for aid to be granted. however, tunisia is facing a severe decline in tourism due to past terrorist attacks, which has led to reduced growth and increased unemployment for women and young graduates. however, i also share the view expressed in the letter from the committee on budgets that macro-financial assistance should take the form of loans only one of the available tools to support tunisia and that the possibility of providing macro-financial assistance in the form of grants should be considered.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council providing further macro-financial assistance to tunisia. the country is facing difficulties, with the tourism sector suffering a major decline following several terrorist attacks, economic growth is low and the unemployment rate hovering near 20%. however, the state is consolidating the democratic transition, implementing reforms for a modernised economy, and at the same time strengthening relations with partners. it is important that the eu supports tunisia in its development path and in taking measures that will benefit the people. in this respect, macro-financial assistance is one of the instruments to assist third countries in crisis. the latter belongs to tunisia, which, as a result of the reforms carried out, fulfils the conditions for its allocation. the first tranche of macro-financial assistance amounting to eur 300 million was launched in 2014. the next macro-financial assistance programme is foreseen to amount to eur 500 million and will continue to contribute to the implementation of reforms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council providing further macro-financial assistance to tunisia. in response to the tunisian government’s request in august 2015, the commission has made provision for a second mfa programme for tunisia, totalling eur 500 million, which will be granted in the form of medium-term financial-market loans on advantageous conditions. this assistance programme will back up the efforts made by tunisia to improve its budgetary position and balance of payments and bring about a climate more conducive to investment. i voted in favour because i believe that the eu must show solidarity and resolve to help and back tunisia in its development process through very tangible actions directly benefiting the population of the country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council providing further macro-financial assistance to tunisia, as i support the establishment of assistance of up to eur 500 million to support tunisia's economic stabilisation and structural reform programme.
in writing. ‒ according to a study by the organisation for economic co-operation and development (oecd), the loss to national budgets worldwide from aggressive tax planning by multinational companies is between $100 and $240 billion each year, representing 4 to 10% of global corporate tax revenue. countries lose huge amounts of revenue, reducing their ability to invest in promoting employment, eradicating poverty and establishing effective health care systems for all. the report represents a positive step in limiting tax avoidance by multinational companies. its main objective is to ensure that companies pay taxes where they make profits. thus, the company will have to prove that it is actually established in a country, since only then will it be obliged to pay taxes in a fair manner. the report reinforces the role of the european parliament, which should be responsible for monitoring the effective implementation of this directive in all 28 member states. it should also be able to carry out an independent evaluation of its effectiveness. although the report is a little weaker in substance than i would have liked, i think it is a step in the right direction and that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council directive on the establishment of rules against tax avoidance practices which have a direct impact on the functioning of the internal market. according to oecd data, member states lose at least eur 100 billion annually in their budgets due to tax avoidance, which is a serious problem and calls for effective action. i support the clearly stated position that companies pay taxes where they make profits. a harmonised european tax system is certainly one solution, but it is not the only one. the european union must be more decisive in the fight against tax evasion and tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a council directive laying down rules against tax avoidance practices which have a direct impact on the functioning of the internal market. the provision on limiting interest rates to 20% for tax relief is inappropriate and harmful, and at the same time it hinders investment. interest payments are costs of investment projects and should therefore be able to be claimed as such, otherwise the taxable profit would be overestimated. in this respect, the 30% threshold recommended by the oecd in its strategy against base erosion and profit shifting is also problematic. many companies with serious investment projects would be harmed. it is wrong to adopt provisions to combat inappropriate tax practices that will also harm companies that pay their taxes honestly. in addition, intra-group loans are used in particular to avoid taxation in order to shift profits to low tax jurisdictions. it would therefore be more appropriate to limit the tax relief for interest payments to intra-group loans only. however, they should not restrict the facilitation of interest payments to third parties. the envisaged option of carrying forward non-deductible interest payments for up to five years will not be of great benefit, especially to companies financing real investments. in the case of large investment projects, companies face high interest payment costs for several years, which means that there is no possibility of carrying interest.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council directive laying down rules against tax avoidance practices that directly affect the functioning of the internal market. i strongly believe that combating fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance are overriding political priorities, as aggressive tax planning practices are unacceptable from the point of view of the integrity of the internal market and social justice. furthermore, i am of the view that fair and effective corporate taxation must become the cornerstone of the single market.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a council directive on the establishment of rules against tax avoidance practices which have a direct impact on the functioning of the internal market. the proposal for a directive provides, inter alia, for a stricter limit on the amount of interest recognised as expenditure, for greater transparency in the operation of the funds and for a pan-european list of tax havens. i agree that the fight against tax fraud and evasion and tax avoidance is a top political priority, as abuses of aggressive tax planning are unacceptable from the point of view of the integrity of the internal market and social justice.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution by mr claude moraes, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the reaction to the european parliament resolution of 11 february 2015 on the us senate report on torture by the cia. there are a number of points in the resolution which i cannot support. one of these is that the war on terrorism expands the powers of governments to the detriment of parliaments and the judiciary, which is supposed to prevent public investigations into alleged human rights abuses. i also consider that the year-long inquiry into alleged transportation and unlawful detention of prisoners in eu countries by the cia, carried out by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, has not produced any new findings and therefore there is no reason for the committee to continue its inquiry.
in writing. ‒ resolutions responding to the european parliament resolution of 11 february 2015 on the us senate report on cia torture, did not support. the european union is founded on a commitment to democracy, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect for human dignity and international law, not only in its internal but also in its external policies. in the fight against terrorism, human dignity, human rights and fundamental freedoms must be respected on the basis of the eu treaties, the european convention on human rights, national constitutions and fundamental rights legislation. relations between the eu and the us are based on a strong partnership and cooperation in a number of areas and on shared values of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. the united states plays a vital role in the fight against terrorism, including on european soil. the designated member states are alleged to cooperate with the cio in the extradition and secret detention operations in return for substantial sums. the us should investigate the mass human rights violations in relation to the cie's extraditions and secret detentions. taking responsibility for these acts is essential for the protection and promotion of human rights in the eu's internal and external policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of motion for a resolution on follow-up to the european parliament resolution of 11 february 20015 on the us senate report on the use of torture by the cia. the resolution urges eu member states to investigate, insuring full transparency, the allegations that there were secret prisons on their territory in which people were held under the cia programme. the resolution calls for more fact-finding missions to be organised by the european parliament in those member states which have been identified as complicit in the cia’s detention and interrogation programme, such as lithuania, poland, italy and the uk.
in writing. ‒ the security situation in the european union and beyond is becoming increasingly dangerous and challenging. they are marked by terrorist attacks and mass killings, which call for the european union to strengthen its security by further developing and supporting the common security and defence policy, so that it becomes a more effective political instrument and a real guarantee for the security of the citizens of the european union. however, it is not entirely clear whether the report on space capabilities for european security and defence is intended to influence the mid-term review of the financial perspective or perhaps to establish a link between terrorism and the need to develop space programmes for national audiences or perhaps something else, which is regrettable. the report calls for the european union to finance the space programme in the same amount as the us, which is highly unrealistic given the budgetary constraints. furthermore, terrorism and migration are used to legitimize the inefficient use of large amounts of public funds, which i do not support. the report is also contradictory, calling for eu strategic autonomy on the one hand and close eu cooperation with nato and the us on the other. the report also seeks to increase the security and military dimension of space programmes, while at the same time opposing the militarisation of space. on the basis of the above, i decided that the report was not appropriate and therefore did not support it in the vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on space capabilities for european security and defence. with the increasingly difficult situation in the world and in our neighbourhood, i am thinking particularly of terrorist attacks, we need to act quickly at all levels. we need a common strategy and a coordinated response, especially as regards the eu's common security and defence policy, as the safety of our citizens must come first. i support the report which attributes a significant role to space capabilities and services in the field of european security and defence. i therefore join the call for further implementation of the common security and defence policy and for greater efficiency, visibility and impact.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on space capabilities for european security and defence, as space policy is an essential element of the strategic independence that the eu needs to develop. space capability is important for european security and defence, both from a day-to-day perspective in peacetime and in cases of major challenges in wartime. in the case of more developed space capabilities, the eu could also act in the field of defence through the european defence agency (eda) and the eu satellite centre. over the past decades, european space assets have been developed through the concerted efforts of the european space agency. successful cooperation and interaction between member states is essential for the development and maintenance of space capabilities for security and defence in europe. space capabilities play an important role in the context of european security and defence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on space capabilities for european security and defence. the report emphasizes the important role that space-based capabilities and services play in, among other areas, the context of european security and defence. the report urges national governments and the union to improve access to space-based satellite communication, space situational awareness, precision navigation and earth observation capabilities, and ensure european non-dependence as regards critical space technologies and access to space. i voted in favour because i strongly believe that research and development in the field of space technology and services should be strengthened within a consistent eu policy framework.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on space capabilities for european security and defence. in the light of the security situation in the union, i support the proposal to improve access to space-based satellite communication, space monitoring, precision navigation and earth observation capabilities. the satellite capabilities would be used to better assess and detect the flows of illegal immigrants, their routes and, for those coming from north africa, to detect embarkation areas on ships in order to capture them more quickly and save more lives.
in writing. ‒ between 2014 and 2020, more than eur 12 billion is earmarked for the implementation of three initiatives: satellite navigation, earth observation and space research. in 2014, the european commission also declared that one of its priorities was the adoption of a space strategy for europe. accordingly, the resolution seeks to communicate the european parliament's opinion on the establishment of a space strategy based on the achievements of the space programmes to date and the opportunities created and enhanced by the various measures. in the area of the space market, the resolution emphasises the implementation of the copernicus and galileo programmes, which must be understood as complementary. the resolution also encourages synergies in the future. the resolution also calls on the european commission to strengthen links between existing policies on space activities. in the area of access to finance and expertise, the resolution calls for an assessment of the results and possible changes, if appropriate. the commission should also address the geographical imbalance in space activities, as the countries of central and eastern europe are currently lagging behind the rest of europe. the resolution also calls for enhanced cooperation, information exchange and best practice. in support of the substance of the resolution as described above, i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution at the end of the debate on the commission's statement on the development of the space market. i support the commission's call to present a comprehensive, ambitious and forward-looking strategy to ensure that europe is a world leader in space technology and services in the short, medium and long term, with independent access to space and a level playing field for the european space industry. the european union's space activities are of vital importance for scientific and technical progress, innovation and economic growth. this is why we need a coordinated and coherent space policy at the level of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the development of the space market, as eu space activities are of crucial importance for scientific and technological progress, innovation, economic growth, industrial competitiveness, social cohesion, the creation of skilled jobs, business opening and new opportunities for procurement and sales markets. technologies developed in the context of space research also promote and strengthen other policy areas. a comprehensive, ambitious and forward-looking strategy is needed to ensure that europe is a leader in space technology in the short, medium and long term. the eu space activities require a simplified institutional structure to facilitate the involvement of public and private users. in the future, the commission and the member states should ensure that the infrastructure of the european space programmes and their services are also used in related policies and programmes. the eu has a wide range of options for accessing funding to support the space capability sales sector, and these instruments need to be used in a coordinated and focused manner.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution to wind up the debate on the statement by the commission pursuant to the rules of procedure on space market uptake. the resolution encourages the commission to present a comprehensive, ambitious and forward-looking strategy, ensuring in the short, medium and long term europe’s leading position in space technologies and services on global markets, ensuring independent access to space for europe and ensuring a level playing field for the european space industry. the resolution highlights the fact that the future development of eu space programmes should be user-oriented and driven by public, private and scientific users’ needs. i voted in favour because i am of the view that pace data and services can play an essential role in allowing europe to take a lead in major technological trends.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the development of the space market. the eu still lacks a coherent and coordinated space policy, and i therefore support the call on the commission to present a comprehensive, ambitious and forward-looking strategy on space technology, which will give it independent access to space and ensure a level playing field for the european space industry. space technology can help us to deal with current global challenges such as climate change and natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ the situation in venezuela is very tense due to a number of factors, such as high inflation, exchange rate liberalisation, which has had negative consequences for income and access to goods, and unprecedented drought as a result of the el niño phenomenon. the opposition's victory in the december 2015 parliamentary elections further exacerbated the tensions in the country. it called for a previously unknown division of power into executive, judicial and legislative branches. in 2015, unreported murders were also reported as a result of the unrest. this is why we in the european parliament have decided to adopt a resolution addressing the situation in venezuela and calling for an improvement. unfortunately, the greens' request that the resolution call on the eu member states not to use the situation in venezuela for political purposes in their home countries was rejected. moreover, instead of criticizing both sides in the conflict for the use of violence, the resolution unilaterally blames the venezuelan government and questions the division of power in venezuela. although i think that a resolution on the situation in venezuela would be welcome, i am not satisfied with the content of the present resolution and therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in venezuela. we need to respond to the deterioration of democracy and human rights and to the socio-economic situation in venezuela, where a climate of political and social instability is increasing. the government of venezuela must take responsibility and overcome the current critical situation in the country with a constructive approach in order to find a constitutional, peaceful and democratic solution based on dialogue. only dialogue can lead the country out of this difficult situation. above all, a dialogue between the government and the opposition must be present at all times and be conducted smoothly. i support the call on the venezuelan government to release all political prisoners immediately.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament resolution on the situation in venezuela, as both the venezuelan government and the supreme court are illegally constituted. there is no separation of powers and no principle of independence in the country, which is typical of democratic states. the country is one of the most dangerous in the world because of its high crime rates and impunity. the economic and social crisis is the result of high levels of corruption, mismanagement of public funds and inefficient management. the country also has a worrying situation with regard to democracy and human rights. opponents of the government cannot peacefully express their disagreement with what is happening in the country, as in most cases they are suppressed by excessive use of force and arbitrary detention by the security authorities. the government should respect the rule of law, operate within the limits of democracy and make it a priority to reduce the high level of impunity that is fuelling the rising violence and insecurity in the country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in venezuela. we need an immediate response to the deterioration of democracy and human rights and the socio-economic situation in venezuela, where a climate of political and social instability is increasing. i support the call on the venezuelan government to take a constructive approach to overcome the current critical economic and political situation in the country by seeking a constitutional, peaceful and democratic solution based on dialogue and respect for human rights.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution because it is unacceptable that the commission, as guardian of the treaties, should be in breach of the latter. the resolution calls on the commission to fulfil its obligations and adopt risk-based scientific criteria for the detection of endocrine disrupting properties. the court of justice of the european union has already ruled that scientific criteria can only be established objectively on the basis of scientific data on the hormonal system and that the commission does not have the power to alter the regulatory balance established by a basic act.
in writing. ‒ endocrine disruptors are substances that interfere with the normal functioning of the hormonal system to the extent that they have harmful effects on the body. as early as 2012, the world health organization declared them a global threat. endocrine disruptors are associated with a number of health problems, such as cancer, fertility problems, genital deformities, obesity and neurodevelopmental disorders. legally, endocrine disruptors are covered by the european chemicals, pesticides, water and cosmetics acts. a major disadvantage is that endocrine disruptors are not precisely defined in the legislation mentioned. in 2015, the general court ruled in sweden v european commission that the european commission had breached eu law by failing to adopt a delegated act specifying the criteria for determining endocrine disrupting properties. nevertheless, the european commission decided to continue the work as planned before the judgment. the resolution thus expresses strong criticism of the european commission and condemns its inaction. at the same time, it calls on the european commission to adopt scientific risk criteria for the determination of endocrine disrupting properties without delay. it also gives the european commission two months to act in accordance with article 265 of the treaty on european union. i agree with the above, and therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on endocrine disruptors: the situation following the judgment of the general court of the european union of 16 december 2015. after two and a half years, we are still waiting for the commission to adopt delegated acts to establish scientific criteria for the detection of endocrine disrupting properties in active substances and biocidal products. the commission has also failed to fulfil its institutional obligations. i very much hope that the commission will deliver on its commitment by the summer. the general court of the european union has also held that scientific criteria can be objectively established only on the basis of scientific data on the endocrine system, independent of all other factors, in particular economic ones.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on endocrine disruptors: the state of play following the judgment of the court of justice of 16 december 2015. the latest study on health costs associated with endocrine disruptors, which assessed five health conditions that could be caused by endocrine disruptors, found that the social and economic burden of the health consequences of endocrine disruptors for the eu is estimated to be significant, ranging from eur 46 to eur 288 billion per year, based on the available expert literature. the provisional criteria laid down in the regulation do not ensure an adequate level of protection. protecting citizens from health risks is one of the three strategic objectives of the european union's health policy, and we must put hormonal disruptors at the centre of prevention. in the area of health, where the link can be brought much closer to the citizen, only consistent action by the commission is necessary and admissible. action is needed because of the growing number of diseases besides cancer and diabetes. preventive action is both necessary and economically justified.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on endocrine disruptors: state of play following the judgement of the general court of the european union of 16 december 2015. the resolution condemns the commission not only for its failure to comply with its obligation to adopt delegated acts pursuant to regulation (eu) no 528/2012, but moreover for failing to comply with its institutional obligations. the resolution stresses that the general court ruled that the specification of scientific criteria could only be carried out in an objective manner based on scientific data related to the endocrine system, independently of any other consideration. furthermore, the resolution urges the commission to comply immediately with its obligations under article 266 tfeu and to adopt immediately hazard-based scientific criteria for the determination of endocrine-disrupting properties.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on endocrine disruptors: the situation following the judgment of the general court of the european union of 16 december 2015. in its judgment of 16 december 2015 in case t-521/14, the general court of the european union held that the commission had infringed eu law by failing to adopt delegated acts with scientific criteria for the detection of endocrine disrupting properties. as the commission has not yet taken action to comply with the court's judgment, but continues to violate eu law, i join the call for the commission to fulfil its institutional obligations.
in writing. ‒ there is no consensus in the scientific community on the issue of genetically modified organisms, and it is expected that meps and the public will be divided on these issues. i myself am a proponent of the precautionary principle in the case of gmos, and i think it is completely unnecessary to rush through a sensitive subject such as the registration of gm maize. we are at a delicate moment when the institutions should have more respect for each other and, above all, for the will of the people who are largely against the use of gmos in europe. i also wonder very much, personally, if we really need this kind of gmo corn seed. i understand that for various reasons we are not able to grow enough soybeans in the eu and we are obliged to import soybeans from countries where gmos are mainly used. but i can't understand why we need gmo corn seed. i'm pretty sure we can grow enough corn without that gmo seed. therefore, i supported the proposed conscientious objection.
in writing. ‒ i supported the objection because i consider that the draft commission implementing decision exceeded the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1829/2003. the standing committee of representatives of the member states has not delivered an opinion on the draft commission implementing decision and the commission should therefore withdraw the draft implementing decision concerning the authorisation of genetically modified maize. i do not recognise gmos as part of the solution to the problems facing the agricultural and food sectors.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the draft commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified maize bt11 × mir162 × mir604 × ga21. i cannot agree that the draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers laid down in the regulation, so i see no reason for the commission to withdraw the draft implementing decision. among other things, glyphosate has been listed by the international agency for research on cancer as a probable human carcinogen. all research in this area should be considered, as, for example, efsa wrote last year on glyphosate that it is difficult to establish a link between glyphosate and the risk of cancer in humans.
in writing. ‒ objection under rule 106: i supported the authorisation of genetically modified maize bt11 x mir162 x mir604 x ga21. the genetically modified maize syn-btø11-1 contains a protein that protects against certain harmful species of butterflies, as well as several proteins that provide resistance to the herbicides glufosinate ammonium and glyphosate. it is unacceptable for the european commission to decide on the import of genetically modified maize without the consent of a majority of member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the draft commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically-modified maize bt11 × mir162 × mir604 × ga21, and genetically modified maizes combining two or three of the events bt11, mir162, mir604 and ga21, and repealing decisions 2010/426/eu, 2011/893/eu, 2011/892/eu and 2011/894/eu. i voted in favour because the resolution emphasises that while some of those gm events confer tolerance to certain pests, mon-øøø21-9 maize is resistant to glyphosate herbicide, which is classified as ‘probably carcinogenic’ to humans by the who’s specialised cancer agency.
in writing. ‒ i supported the objection because i consider that the draft commission implementing decision does not meet the objective of health and environmental protection laid down in directive 2001/18/ec and therefore goes beyond the implementing powers laid down in this directive. the creation of a market for sulphonylurea-resistant plants will encourage the use of this antidiabetic medicinal product as a herbicide. however, the use of this medicinal product for purposes other than public health may have adverse effects on biodiversity and contribute to the contamination of drinking water.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the draft commission implementing decision on the placing on the market of genetically modified soya beans. i cannot agree with the contention in the resolution that the draft commission implementing decision does not meet the objective of protecting health and the environment set out in the directive and therefore exceeds the implementing powers laid down in that directive. the regulatory committee did not give an opinion on genetically modified maize and the member states also had very different views, which shows that we still have too little information to draw any conclusions so quickly.
in writing. ‒ objection under rule 106 of the rules of procedure: i supported the placing on the market of genetically modified carnations (dianthus caryophyllus l., line shd-27531-4). dianthus species are very diverse, adapted to cooler climates, and are also found along the mediterranean coast. in pollination, there is a possibility that the insects could spread the pollen of the genetically modified plants to wild species. there is a possibility that naked dianthus, once the ornamental value has been exploited, will be used for composting. however, the effects of this have not yet been studied. the genetically modified nail contains a gene that causes resistance to sulfonylurea. the latter is often one of the treatment options for type 2 diabetes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the draft commission implementing decision as regards the placing on the market of a genetically modified carnation (dianthus caryophyllus l.). i voted in favour of the objection because the resolution emphasises that sulfonylureas, which are a common second line option for managing type 2 diabetes, are also used as herbicides, as they are highly toxic to plants at very low doses.
on behalf of the s&d group. europe has always been a continent of migration. similarly, we in europe have always faced terrorist threats. for decades, we've lived with terrorism in spain, in ireland, elsewhere. recently, threats have come from outside. but the first phenomenon is not the consequence of the second, and vice versa, as many would like to believe. that is why i am concerned about the commission's plan for the future of information systems, which it has presented, together with the proposal for smart borders. the commission wants to tackle new threats and challenges by pooling databases and building a 'big brother'. the number of passengers will increase considerably in the future. probably the number of threats. technology will advance, and criminals will likely be one step ahead of it. of course, we must fight against dangers, but we must also be able to identify and prevent potential threats. but we're not going to do that by creating new super databases. first, existing systems need to be thoroughly assessed and any weaknesses addressed. above all, their use needs to be improved. the spread of information already known is a very big step. we have also learned this lesson from the recent terrorist attacks in paris, in brussels. we have repeatedly called for the exchange of information to be the priority. i am not opposed to new and effective solutions in the field of information technology. but only if you protect your personal information. a criminal suspect and a tourist are treated very differently, and so is their personal information. we do not intend to impede the work of the judicial and security authorities, but we cannot accept a completely unrestricted and systematic access to everyone's personal data. our common future also depends on today's debate, and we will all be responsible for the extent to which we encroach on the privacy of europeans.
today we are again seeing that the exchange of relevant information between the relevant security actors increases the security of all citizens. this correlation has been proven for a long time. unfortunately, it is also the case in practice, for example in the recent terrorist attacks in europe. it is therefore surprising that a political compromise on the issue of giving law enforcement access to certain data on individuals is so difficult to reach. i wonder what kind of security situation we would be living in if the european people's party had not for years pushed this issue high on the agenda of european security policy. the european people's party also recently made 10 recommendations on the fight against terrorism, including a call for improved collection, processing and exchange of information from criminal records between member states, between law enforcement authorities, between agencies (europol, frontex, eurojust, etc.) and between systems which must become compatible with each other. we therefore call on the commission to present systemic solutions to this pressing problem, which is perpetuating the weak security situation in europe, without delay. in order to combat terrorism effectively, we must also improve cooperation with third countries, not only the usa and canada, but also turkey, the countries of north africa and the middle east. better communication will also improve the effectiveness of the fight against illicit arms trafficking, radicalisation online and in prisons, and terrorist financing. the treatment of so-called foreign fighters and the protection of external borders will also be improved.
the fight against crime requires decisive and rapid action, but it must not come at the expense of unjustified interference with the lives of citizens and measures that do not achieve the desired results. of course, security and freedom are two sides of the same coin, and unfortunately, they are sometimes far from each other. the control and collection of data, the sharing of data must have its limits and we cannot give blanco menus to the sharing and processing of data, which can also lead to abuse of power. there's a fine line between tracking and processing and, of course, defining what are called potential suspects and who they really are. and so we need to be careful about the data we collect, and of course, these rules cannot be an end in themselves. it is therefore necessary to emphasise the particular importance of the data protection officers and controllers.
the trials against the deputies, which begin with the gross verbal attacks, the incitement of subversive intentions and conspiracies, all this always and everywhere heralded the march of authoritarian power and the concentration of power in one center and in one person. today, this is happening in turkey, our important strategic partner. the attack by erdogan on the rule of law, which culminated in the withdrawal of the immunity of an elected member of parliament, must be condemned without reservation. we need turkey. it has been hit by terrorists and the same problems as the middle east as a whole and us europeans with it. the worst of all options is the one that president erdogan has chosen, combining external problems with internal ethnic tensions. perhaps at this moment, when we condemn the autocratic government in ankara, we should ask ourselves if there is still time for a proactive approach and a redefinition of common interests. commissioner, i support your opening statement on this. many of turkey's problems were created by us and our allies, and we should not forget that.
thank you very much to martina werner for the report. we went to china together at the end of last year to see what the chinese rail market looked like. in three years, they built 180,000 kilometers of high-speed rail, more than 100 kilometers a week! their plan going forward is to connect shanghai and rotterdam by high-speed rail, because their industry has nothing left to build in china. i come from slovenia, where we've been talking for a decade about how we're going to build a 20 km second railway between koper and divača, where we're going to open our port. and in this case we see this huge difference, where we have state interventionist policies on the one hand and complicated european processes on the other. so in this process, i want to emphasise two things: let's simplify the processes, let's bring european industry together so that this is our silicon valley, and on the other hand let the commission look at... stop the non-market economy on european soil for anti-dumping legislation.
the vietnamese communist party, which has absolute control of the country and has been unwilling to relinquish power since 1975, is committing gross human rights abuses. therefore, it is very important that a multi-party system is established in vietnam. the resolution on vietnam calls on the vietnamese government to immediately cease harassment, intimidation and persecution of human rights activists. it is also necessary to condemn political intimidation, harassment, attacks, severe prison sentences and unfair judicial proceedings targeting political activists, journalists, bloggers and human rights defenders. the communist party of vietnam also exercises total control over the media and thus freedom of speech, imposing severe penalties on those who dare to criticize the government. the european union delegation therefore has an important role to play in monitoring the vietnamese government and thus in protecting human rights defenders. the resolution also carries an important message and demands that vietnam fight discrimination against women by introducing anti-smuggling legislation and taking effective measures to reduce violence and families. in short, the european union must also do more for human rights in vietnam.
in writing. ‒ european union citizens are highly mobile - some 12 million of them study, work or live in another eu member state. today, when citizens and businesses of the european union are exercising their rights to free movement or the freedoms of the internal market, they may face administrative difficulties in submitting the necessary public documents to the authorities of another member state, for example in the case of cross-border mobility. the purpose of the legislative regulation is to promote the free movement of citizens and businesses by simplifying the adoption of certain public documents in the european union. this is not a question of recognising the content of authentic instruments, since it is important to preserve the sovereignty of the member states in the field of family law. unfortunately, certain regulations do not include diplomas and vocational certificates, certificates of invalidity and certain documents for businesses. moreover, multilingual standard forms cannot be submitted separately, but must be attached to the national documents, which is an unnecessary problem. nevertheless, significant progress has been made, as the regulation also contains revision clauses that allow administrative simplification to be extended in the future as national administrations adjust to the new way of working. for the reasons stated above, i voted against the amendment and thus supported the report on the council's position with a view to adopting a regulation on the promotion of the free movement of citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the promotion of the free movement of citizens by simplifying the requirements for the presentation of certain public documents in the european union and amending the regulation. i think it is a good document, because by simplifying certain public documents we will encourage the free movement of citizens and businesses. the right of free movement for citizens and businesses is an important achievement of a united europe and should be promoted and administrative problems, particularly for businesses, avoided. this legislation is a step in the right direction, which is why i voted against the amendment, thereby supporting the report.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the proposal to reject the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the promotion of the free movement of citizens by simplifying the requirements for the presentation of certain public documents in the european union and amending regulation (eu) no 1024/2012. citizens and businesses that benefit from the right to free markets face administrative difficulties in situations where they have to submit the necessary public documents to the authorities of the states. with regard to these authentic instruments, the regulation provides for an exemption from the legalisation and stamping of authenticity procedures normally required for authentic instruments from another country. simplified procedures for accepting certified copies and certified translations are provided for. the central part of the regulation consists of multilingual standard forms for most of the public documents concerned.
in writing. – i voted against the proposal to reject the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on promoting the free movement of citizens by simplifying the requirements for presenting certain public documents in the european union and amending regulation (eu) no 1024/2012. i am committed to the recommendation whose final goal is to promote the free movement of citizens and businesses by simplifying the acceptance of certain public documents in the european union. furthermore, i believe that this regulation will put an end to the heavy and expensive bureaucracy currently in place.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the recommendation for a second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the promotion of the free movement of citizens by simplifying the requirements for the presentation of certain public documents in the european union and amending the regulation. the purpose of the legislative regulation is to promote the free movement of citizens and businesses by simplifying the adoption of certain public documents in the european union. however, i believe that in the light of the current security situation in the european union, such a proposal is premature, ill-considered and could endanger national security.
in writing. ‒ this regulation is the fourth in the reform of the court of justice of the european union and builds on its predecessor. in parallel with the increase in the number of judges at the general court from 40 to 47, the tribunal, which has seven judges, should also be abolished. the proposal provides for the transfer of pending cases from the civil service tribunal to the general court, which will take place on 31 august 2016. for reasons of legal certainty, the rules of procedure of the general court will be applied to these cases. the report points out that the rules of procedure of the general court should be amended to take account of the special rules laid down in the applicable rules of procedure of the civil service tribunal in civil service disputes. a greater number of cases should be referred to a larger number of panels where this justifies their importance, in order to ensure the consistency and quality of case-law. they should also consider the possibility of adapting case allocation rules and practices in order to create thematic synergies. in conjunction with article 257 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the report stresses that it is logical to conclude that an article which allows the establishment of an institutional body also implicitly allows the abolition of that body if changed circumstances so require. the report is in line with my view on the reform of the general court of the european union, which is why i supported it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft regulation of the european parliament and of the council conferring jurisdiction on the general court of the european union to hear and determine at first instance disputes between the union and its servants. this regulation builds on the three previous regulations, which provided, inter alia, for an increase in the number of judges at the general court to 56. this will allow each member state to propose two judges. this report, which contains some technical changes, is merely an improvement of the text and clarifies some provisions that may have been somewhat unclear.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft regulation of the european parliament and of the council conferring jurisdiction on the general court of the european union to rule on disputes between the union and its servants at first instance. the regulation provides for an increase in the number of judges of the general court from 40 to 47 and, at the same time, for the abolition of the tribunal, which has seven judges. the judgments of the general court shall be delivered in the form of orders. for this reason, the rules of procedure of the general court and its internal organisation should be amended. changes are also necessary in terms of the internal organisation of the general court.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the transfer to the general court of the european union of jurisdiction at first instance in disputes between the union and its servants. i voted in favour because i am of the view that this decision is based on the relevant legal basis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft regulation of the european parliament and of the council conferring jurisdiction on the general court of the european union to hear and determine at first instance disputes between the union and its servants. this is the fourth regulation on judicial reform, and it introduces some technical changes and clearer provisions. the reforms so far have included an increase in the number of judges at the general court to 56, allowing each member state to propose two judges. the civil service tribunal shall also be abolished and the dispute settlement between the union and its servants shall be transferred back to the general court.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the question for oral answer on the open, efficient and independent administration of the european union. this resolution invites the european commission to review the attached draft regulation and to prepare a legislative proposal to be included in its 2017 work programme. we need an administration that will serve our citizens and respect their rights and obligations. citizens have the right to demand a high level of efficiency, transparency and responsiveness from the institutions, bodies and agencies of the european union, especially in the light of the decline in citizens' trust in the european union.
in writing. ‒ motion for a resolution i support the regulation on an open, efficient and independent administration of the european union. the european union respects the rule of law and it is necessary to ensure that procedural rights and obligations are always properly defined and developed and that they are duly respected at all times. the inconsistent and incomplete system of codified rules of administrative law makes it difficult for citizens to understand what their administrative rights are. the effective administration of the union is essential to the public interest. the right to good administration requires the diligence of the union administration, which is obliged to ascertain and examine carefully and impartially, at all stages of the procedure, all relevant facts and legal elements of the case, taking into account all the interests involved. the right to good administration imposes on the union administration the obligation to state clearly the reasons on which its administrative acts are based.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on an open, efficient and independent european union administration. the purpose of the regulation is to establish a set of procedural rules, which the union’s administration should comply with when carrying out its administrative activities. the regulation notes that it is of crucial importance to ensure that, in the union, procedural rights and obligations are always adequately defined, developed and complied with. i voted in favour because i believe that an efficient union administration is essential to the public interest.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on an open, efficient and independent administration of the european union. the european union does not have a coherent and comprehensive system of codified rules of administrative law, which makes it difficult for citizens to understand their administrative rights under union law. i consider that, in the light of the principle of legal certainty for citizens and the rule of law, it is necessary to adopt a regulation laying down the procedural rules governing the administrative activities of the union administration.
in writing. ‒ the european rail supply industry employs 400 000 workers, invests 2.7% of its annual turnover in r & d and represents 46% of the global rail supply industry market. the entire rail sector, together with operators and infrastructure, directly creates over one million jobs in the eu, which is a clear indication of the importance of the rail supply industry for european industrial growth, jobs and innovation. the rail supply industry is thus essential for europe's competitiveness and it is therefore necessary to ensure that europe maintains its technological and innovative edge in this sector. i believe that the european commission should work with the sector to ensure the best use of the european structural and investment funds, in particular the european regional development fund, and to support research and development projects at regional level. a european training and education strategy would also be welcome, bringing together railway supply industry companies, research institutions and social partners to jointly explore the skills needed for a sustainable and innovative railway supply industry. in view of the above, i consider the resolution for an oral reply on the competitiveness of the european railway supply industry to be well-contained and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the oral question on the competitiveness of the european railway supply industry. we need good coordination of the european union's financial instruments and funds and private investment by the european commission. the european rail industry needs to maintain and further increase its leadership in the global market. in particular, i would like to emphasise support to smes in the railway supply industry in terms of gaining access to finance, including in the form of guarantees and equity instruments. i also welcome the efsi, which pays particular attention to smes.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the competitiveness of the european rail supply industry. the european rail supply industry includes many small and medium-sized enterprises and industry leaders, employs 400 000 workers, invests 2.7% of its annual turnover in research and development and represents 46% of the global rail supply industry market. the rail supply industry is essential for europe's competitiveness and its capacity for innovation. the capacity for innovation, investment in research and development and the elimination of market fragmentation are essential to maintain the competitiveness of the european rail supply industry. eu funding instruments should be fully mobilised and cooperation with the sector should be established to ensure the best use of the european structural and investment funds. access to finance is one of the main challenges for smes in the railway supply industry.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the competitiveness of the european rail supply industry. the resolution emphasises the specific nature of this sector, which is characterised in particular by the manufacture of equipment with a lifespan of up to 50 years, high capital intensity, a significant dependence on public procurement and the obligation to comply with very high safety standards. the resolution equally underlines that maintenance and modernisation of existing rail equipment should not be neglected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the competitiveness of the european railway supply industry. the rail supply industry is essential for europe's competitiveness, climate change mitigation and in responding to other global phenomena such as urbanisation and demographic change. i therefore support the call on the commission to draw up a strategy for eu industrial policy aimed at re-industrialising europe, based on, inter alia, sustainability, energy efficiency and efficient use of resources.
mr. president, colleagues and friends. it is my pleasure and honour to remind you that slovenia is celebrating 25 years of independence this week. 25 years ago, on the basis of a plebiscite and democratically expressed will, we realized the slovenian people's dream of their own democratic state. let me also remind you of the tragic fact that the declaration of independence in june 1991 was followed by an attack by the yugoslav people's army on slovenia, even though the yugoslav constitution guaranteed us the right to self-determination and secession. because we were prepared, we won the war for slovenia and brought down our part of the iron curtain with a united europe. at that time, the european and world democratic public took slovenia's side and supported the process of international recognition of the new state. the european community gave a key signal to this process by recognising slovenia on 15 january 1992. i would like to express my special thanks to those who understood and supported us at that time, thereby supporting slovenia's european perspective. we have experienced a europe divided and united, we have reasons to celebrate together and to work decisively for a better europe.
thank you, chairman, distinguished members of the house. jo cox died last week because of the beliefs and principles she believed in. she believed that diversity could bring us together. she believed in values that, if shared by all, would bring peace and harmony to mankind. radicals are willing to die for the ideas they believe in. but their ideas are contrary to fundamental human rights and european values, because they are based on the exaltation of some at the expense of others. in the light of terrorist attacks and threats, the european union is currently dealing with the problem of radicalisation of people, especially young people, who are joining islamic extremists and their ideas. and yes, it is urgent, we need european cooperation and information exchange between law enforcement agencies to combat the dangers of radicalisation and terrorism. but you know very well that radicalization is possible in many other fields. we must not forget that in the crisis we are living in, the radicalisation of other groups can also take place simultaneously and with some rapidity. this is already partly reflected in the attitudes of certain groups towards lgbti people, immigrants, refugees, individual religious groups, roma, disabled people, etc. to prevent radicalisation, the greatest attention should be given to: firstly, addressing the causes and tackling the socio-economic situation and, secondly, to dialogue with citizens and combating hate speech particularly online. the socialist and democratic group has stressed this in particular and we continue to do so today. writing and disseminating information online seems to have become the new european freedom, but it is completely unregulated. but member states urgently need measures to limit and punish hate speech and intolerance, a cancer of early division in society. we must call on the member states or the council of the union to stop blocking anti-discrimination directives immediately. we regret to say that we do not speak with one voice, which is intolerable. tomorrow's referendum result, whatever it is, will be a good lesson to see where the european union's rather unraveling policy is taking us.
in european societies, freedom is the most protected value. we cannot say the same for another value that is inextricably linked to freedom and that is becoming increasingly important to europeans, and, historically, they have lived in peace for a record long time, and i am talking of course about security. unfortunately, in recent years, the sense of threat has increased greatly. freedom and the european way of life are threatened by many factors, including so-called hybrid warfare, the rise of violent extremists, the precarious security situation of refugees and migrants, and radicalisation. of all the threats, terrorism is the most threatening, not just imported but domestic. europe is therefore vulnerable in terms of security, and has been living in a kind of security vacuum since the cold war. it therefore needs a new coherent security strategy, a more efficient use of security and defence capabilities and, above all, more budgetary resources at home in all member states. this is not just about investing in security and defence structures, but also in quality education and training and other areas that allow for better social integration, especially of young people. i congratulate commissioner navracsics for the concrete measures he has outlined in the european commission's statement, including financial support. it is now the member states' turn. in the field of security, the eu will thus demonstrate its effectiveness by breaking up terrorist networks and organisations, of which there are estimated to be 4,000 in the european union, by tackling hateful propaganda more effectively, by protecting its external borders, by ensuring peace and security in its neighbourhood, by promoting the concept of de-radicalisation widely in all european societies, not just on the internet and in prisons. in conclusion, we cannot rely on the help of others for ever. when it comes to security, it is time for europeans to do more than ever.
in writing. we have set out the et 2020 strategic framework to address challenges in education and training systems. however, we still face major challenges in this area. when it comes to quality and access to education, more ambitious, more coordinated and also more effective measures are needed at european and national levels. i think we need to modernize our education systems. we need to include in early education the teaching of general basic skills, digital literacy, mathematics, foreign languages, as young people will be better able to adapt to the changing labour market by acquiring a wide range of knowledge and skills. i would also like to underline the important role of mobility programmes such as erasmus+, which encourage the development of young people's skills and competences, while helping them to become more independent, responsible and inventive.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the list of members of the committee of inquiry into alleged breaches of european legislation on money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion. the commission will investigate whether the owners of companies in tax havens have breached european tax law. i welcome the appointment of the members of the inquiry committee, which will have a strong mandate and full powers to investigate all aspects of the panama papers affair. i hope, or rather believe, that the committee of inquiry will produce concrete results and that we will thus put an end to unfair tax practices.
in writing. ‒ i supported the decision to appoint members of the committee of inquiry into alleged breaches and irregularities in the application of union law relating to money laundering, tax evasion and tax evasion. it is necessary to examine how the commission and the member states have implemented and enforced the directive on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing and whether administrative penalties and other administrative measures have been applied by the member states' authorities in cases of institutions found to be responsible for serious infringements of national provisions related to that directive. the exchange of information in the field of taxation is also important. the commission should investigate the presumption that the authorities of the member states have not been consistent in communicating tax information to other member states on their own initiative, where there are reasons to believe that there may be a loss of tax.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointments to the committee of inquiry to investigate alleged contraventions and maladministration in the application of european union law in relation to money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion. i voted in favour because i believe that setting up a committee of inquiry into the ‘panama papers’ revelations of detailed information on offshore companies and their ultimate beneficiaries is of crucial importance.
in writing. ‒ i supported the appointment of members of the committee of inquiry into alleged breaches of european legislation on money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion. i believe that the establishment of a committee of inquiry will help to uncover alleged violations and irregularities related to money laundering, tax evasion and tax evasion in the panama papers case.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the republic of lebanon on the general principles for the participation of the republic of lebanon in union programmes. i support the participation of lebanon in several union programmes. the agreement should define the financial contribution of lebanon, the reporting and evaluation procedures, and the participation as observers in the items concerning lebanon and in the programmes to which lebanon contributes financially.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean partnership and cooperation agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the republic of lebanon on the general principles for the participation of the republic of lebanon in union programmes. the protocol contains a framework agreement on the general principles for the participation of lebanon in union programmes. it contains the standard conditions to be applied to all the european neighbourhood policy partner countries with which such protocols will be concluded. the objective of the protocol is to lay down the financial and technical rules enabling the republic of lebanon to participate in certain union programmes. the horizontal framework established by the protocol lays down the principles for economic, financial and technical cooperation enabling the republic of lebanon to receive assistance, in particular financial assistance from the union under those programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the republic of lebanon on the general principles for the participation of the republic of lebanon in union programmes. the horizontal framework established by the protocol sets out principles for economic, financial and technical cooperation and allows the republic of lebanon to receive assistance, in particular financial assistance, from the european union pursuant to the programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the republic of lebanon on the general principles for the participation of the republic of lebanon in union programmes. i believe that the eu-lebanon euro-mediterranean agreement will bring positive results and strengthen eu-lebanon cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the czech republic, the republic of estonia, the republic of cyprus, the republic of latvia, the republic of lithuania, the republic of hungary, the republic of malta, the republic of poland, the republic of slovenia and the slovak republic to the european union. this approval of the protocol, which is mainly technical in nature, brings the remaining countries that joined the european union in 2004 and were not signatories to the original agreement into the fold.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this council decision is to conclude, on behalf of the european union and its member states, the protocol to the euro-mediterranean partnership and cooperation agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the czech republic, estonia, cyprus, latvia, lithuania, hungary, malta, poland, slovenia and slovakia to the european union. i therefore supported the recommendation for a council decision on the conclusion of that protocol.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the czech republic, the republic of estonia, the republic of cyprus, the republic of latvia, the republic of lithuania, the republic of hungary, the republic of malta, the republic of poland, the republic of slovenia, and the slovak republic to the european union. the objective of the protocol is to lay down the financial and technical rules enabling the republic of lebanon to participate in certain eu programmes. i believe that the participation of the 2004 enlargement countries in this agreement is a natural consequence of their eu accession.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the czech republic, the republic of estonia, the republic of cyprus, the republic of latvia, the republic of lithuania, the republic of hungary, the republic of malta, the republic of poland, the republic of slovenia and the slovak republic to the european union. the approval of the protocol allows for accession to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the eu and lebanon of countries that joined the european union in 2004 and were not signatories to the original agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union. this approval of the protocol, which is mainly technical in nature, also includes bulgaria and romania, which were the last to join the european union and were therefore not signatories to the original agreement.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this council decision is to establish a protocol to the euro-mediterranean partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to be approved on behalf of the union and its member states, to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union. i therefore supported the recommendation for a council decision on the conclusion of that protocol.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union. the horizontal framework established by the protocol sets out principles for economic, financial and technical cooperation and allows the republic of lebanon to receive assistance, in particular financial assistance, from the european union pursuant to the programmes. i believe that the participation of bulgaria and romania in this agreement is a natural consequence of their eu accession.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union. the approval of the protocol will allow bulgaria and romania to accede to the eu-lebanon euro-mediterranean agreement.
in writing. ‒ the european union has agreed with monaco an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information to improve international tax cooperation and compliance. the agreement represents an important step in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. the agreement builds on a previous agreement of 2004, which had achieved that monaco implemented measures equivalent to those of the eu savings tax directive. the new agreement will enable tax authorities in the member states and monaco to correctly and unambiguously identify those taxpayers, administer and enforce national tax laws in cross-border cases, assess the likelihood of tax evasion and also prevent unnecessary further investigations. for the reasons set out above, i consider the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the principality of monaco concerning measures to be taken to combat money laundering to be a good one and i also voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the principality of monaco concerning measures equivalent to those laid down in the council directive. the agreement will strengthen cooperation between the european union and monaco in the field of exchange of financial account information and in the tax field. i believe that this agreement will strengthen the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, which we must have zero tolerance for. this is an upgrade of the 2004 agreement.
in writing. ‒ following the adoption of the savings directive and with a view to maintaining a level playing field for economic operators, the european union signed an agreement with the principality of monaco on measures equivalent to those laid down in the directive. on 17 june 2011, the commission presented recommendations for a mandate to open negotiations with the principality of monaco with a view to upgrading the european union's agreements with those countries in line with international developments and to ensure that those countries continue to apply measures equivalent to those in the european union. on the basis of that proposal, the council was invited to approve, on behalf of the european union, the amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the principality of monaco providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in the directive on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. the report agrees to the conclusion of a protocol amending the agreement, and i have therefore supported it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the principality of monaco providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec. the european union and monaco have negotiated an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information, aimed at improving international tax cooperation and compliance. i voted in favour because i find that this agreement represents an important step in ongoing efforts to clamp down on tax fraud and tax evasion and upgrades the 2004 agreement that ensured that monaco applied measures equivalent to those in an eu directive on the taxation of savings income. under the new agreement, the eu member states and monaco will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts held on their territories by each other’s residents. the aim is to address situations where a taxpayer seeks to hide capital representing income or assets for which taxes have not been paid.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the principality of monaco. i support the intention of the agreement to ensure that monaco implements enhanced measures to combat tax fraud and tax evasion and complies with the procedures for the automatic exchange of financial account information, as promoted by the 2014 oecd global standards.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund application from belgium hainaut machinery. the european globalisation adjustment fund is implemented as an expression of the solidarity of the european union, which is one of the foundations on which the community was built. with today's approval by the plenary, € 1 824 041 will help 488 overworked workers from three companies in the manufacture of other machinery and equipment in the belgian region of hainaut and 300 young people who are not in employment, education or training and are under 25 years of age. it is very important that training is aligned with the needs of the region and neighbouring regions and that attention is paid to the needs of older workers. older workers are at greater risk of becoming long-term unemployed and socially excluded and therefore have specific needs that need to be taken into account in support.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows. i supported the proposal to use the european globalisation adjustment fund. in the case of belgium, 488 workers were made redundant during the reference period from 25 december 2014 to 25 september 2015 and 300 young unemployed persons were made redundant. in recent years, trade in construction machinery within the union has suffered serious disruptions due to a decline in public and private investment in infrastructure. this has led to a dramatic loss of market share for european producers, coupled with a significant increase in steel prices in europe. workers aged 55 to 64 years represent 35,9% of all european globalisation adjustment fund target beneficiaries, as they are at higher risk of long-term unemployment and social exclusion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (application from belgium - egf/2015/012 be/hainaut machinery). the european globalisation adjustment fund has been created in order to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. the report highlights the need to improve employability of all workers by adapted training and expects that the training offered in the coordinated package will meet both needs of the workers and the business environment in the region and in the neighbouring regions. in addition, the report calls on member states to prepare, together with the social partners, strategies to anticipate the projected labour market changes and to protect union jobs and skills, especially when negotiating trade agreements in order to ensure fair competition rules and common measures against economic, social and environmental dumping. the report equally highlights the need of improving employability of all workers by adapted training and expects that the training offered in the coordinated package will meet both needs of the workers and the business environment in the region and in the neighbouring regions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund application from belgium hainaut machinery. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to provide support for workers made redundant by major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and the global financial and economic crisis, and to assist their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the european union is a contracting party to the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) and the regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo) responsible for the management of tuna and tuna-like species in the atlantic ocean and adjacent seas. while the commission proposal broadly reflects the relevant iccat recommendations, in some cases it goes beyond iccat decisions and even eu sectoral legislation. bluefin tuna is of major economic importance to the european union, especially to the mediterranean member states. although the catch is quite small, bluefin tuna is highly prized in the japanese market, where prices are consequently astronomical. the report concerns the modified form of the iccat plan, describes the improvement of the control of stocks, restrictions and types of fishing gear. the proposal for a regulation includes technical measures such as those relating to the transfer and rearing activities of live bluefin tuna in cages, including measures relating to the use of stereoscopic cameras to assess bluefin tuna quantities and releases, catch reporting requirements and the implementation of the iccat regional observer programme. the report stresses that the european union should pay particular attention to traditional traps, which contribute to the recovery of tuna stocks, as they are highly selective in the implementation of the recovery plan. i think the report is good, which is why i supported it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean and repealing the regulation. the report contains technical measures to ensure uniform and effective implementation of all measures of the recovery plan adopted between 2012 and 2014. for example, the proposal contains a measure concerning the transfer and rearing of live bluefin tuna in cage nets. in 2006, the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas adopted a multiannual bluefin tuna recovery plan, which runs until 2022.
in writing. ‒ i support the current proposal for a regulation to transpose the bluefin tuna recovery plan in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean into union law. in 2006, the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas adopted a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna, which expires in 2022. to restore the stock, the plan provides for a gradual reduction in the total allowable catch from 2007 to 2011, fishing limits in certain areas and periods, new minimum sizes, measures relating to sport and recreational fishing activities and fishing capacity. the proposal also contains technical measures on the use of stereoscopic cameras to estimate bluefin tuna quantities. the role of traditional and craft tools and techniques in the conservation of stocks is important. in implementing the recovery plan, the european union should pay particular attention to those tools and techniques which have contributed to the recovery of bluefin tuna stocks.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean repealing regulation (ec) no 302/2009. the european union is contracting party to the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat), the regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo) responsible for the management of tuna and tuna-like species in the atlantic ocean and adjoining seas. bluefin tuna is the most important species regulated by iccat. the proposal contains technical measures such as those on transfer and caging operations of live bluefin tuna, including also measures on the use of stereoscopic cameras to estimate the quantities of bluefin tuna and releases, catch reporting requirements, and the implementation of the iccat regional observer programme.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean and repealing the regulation. the proposal for a regulation lays down general rules for the application of the recovery plan, taking into account the specific characteristics of the different types of fishing gear and paying particular attention to traditional, more sustainable and artisanal gear.
in writing. ‒ in october 2014, the european commission published a multiannual plan for the cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea and the fisheries exploiting these stocks. the proposal aims to establish a framework for the management of cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea, where fisheries are mainly directed at these three species. in recent years cod, herring and sprat have accounted for more than 94% of the catches in the baltic sea. the baltic sea is a nearly closed body of water in which these three species are ubiquitous and constantly interacting with each other. it is therefore essential that the european union has a well-regulated area to allow for interactions between the species covered by the plan, including the impact of cod on herring and sprat stocks and vice versa. the report was considerably weakened compared to the draft. for example, it allows fishing in quantities higher than those limited by the common fisheries policy, which is unacceptable. although the report explicitly mentions the good environmental status of the marine strategy framework directive and also allows for the restriction of fishing gear in order to conserve non-commercial fish species, which i support, i think the report is rather poor. that is why i voted against the adoption of this one.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a multiannual plan for the cod, herring and sprat stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks in the baltic sea, amending regulation no 2187/2005 and repealing regulation no 1098/2007. i support the commission's 2014 multiannual plan, which published a multiannual plan for the stocks of herring and sprat in the baltic sea and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. it has thus established a multi-species management framework for the cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea, where fisheries are mainly directed towards these three species. the baltic sea is a nearly closed body of water in which these three species are ubiquitous and constantly interacting with each other.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a regulation establishing a multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. multiannual plans are a fundamental tool for the sustainable management or recovery of fish stocks. such long-term approaches are not only intended to improve the conservation of stocks but also to increase predictability for fishermen in the long term. the multiannual management plan is an instrument to ensure the sustainable exploitation of fish stocks and marine ecosystems. the purpose of multiannual plans is to maintain the size of stocks within safe biological limits. they shall set out the maximum allowable catches and the type of technical measures, taking into account the characteristics of each stock and the effects of the economic measures on the fisheries concerned.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a multiannual plan for the stocks of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea and the fisheries exploiting those stocks, amending council regulation (ec) no 2187/2005 and repealing council regulation (ec) no 1098/2007. the aim of the plan is to establish a framework for the multispecies management of the stocks of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea, where fishing primarily targets these three species. cod, herring and sprat account for over 94 % of baltic catches in the recent years. the baltic sea is a virtually closed body of water in which these three species are omnipresent and interact continuously. therefore, it is of utmost importance to deliver regulation making it possible to recognize interactions between the species covered, inter alia the cod's influence on herring and sprat stocks and the other way round. i voted in favour because i believe that the plan provides for a balanced, sustainable exploitation of those stocks and the stability of fishing opportunities – and thereby of the livelihoods of fishers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a multiannual plan for the cod, herring and sprat stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks in the baltic sea, amending regulation no 2187/2005 and repealing regulation no 1098/2007. the proposal for a regulation contributes to the objectives of the common sustainable fisheries policy as set out in article 2 of regulation (eu) no 1380/2013, in particular by applying the precautionary approach to fisheries management. its purpose is to ensure that, when exploiting living marine biological resources, populations of harvested species are restored and maintained above levels that allow maximum sustainable yield.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters is the second in this field. the report states that the proposal for a regulation on matrimonial property regime is in the clear interest of the union and of international couples within it. the regulation will remove many instances of ambiguity and legal uncertainty. in the areas of recognition, enforceability and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial property matters, the current text is largely based on the european parliament's position of 2013. it thus summarises the very precise provisions of regulation no 650/2012 on cross-border succession. even if recognition is automatic, the decision is therefore enforceable only after a declaration of enforceability has been obtained in the member state concerned. however, a declaration of enforceability may be refused only in very specific cases, such as when enforcement is contrary to public policy. in view of the above, i welcome the report on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial property matters, and have therefore supported it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters. in the area of matrimonial property regimes, the regulation covers jurisdiction and the law applicable, as well as the recognition and enforcement of judgments, but excludes in particular matters of the legal capacity and capacity of the spouses, the existence, validity and recognition of the marriage, maintenance obligations and succession. the member states will thus continue to have autonomy as regards family law.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a regulation governing the jurisdiction of the judiciary, the applicable legislation and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matters of matrimonial property regimes. in order to preserve the autonomy of the member states in the area of family law, the regulation does not cover areas such as the legal capacity of the spouses, the existence, validity or recognition of a marriage, maintenance obligations or the succession of the estate of a deceased spouse. nor does the regulation affect or interfere with the substantive law of the member states on matrimonial property regimes. it is provided that, if a member state does not recognise the marriage, the courts of that member state are to be given a discretion which confers jurisdiction in the matter on the courts of the other member state which recognises that marriage. the proposal also respects the principle of the unity of the law applicable to the matrimonial property regime, which applies to all immovable property under this regime regardless of where it is situated. the regulation allows the choice of the law applicable to the property consequences between spouses, but this choice is limited by the requirement that the spouses are nationals of, or at least habitually resident in, the country whose law has been chosen. the regulation also provides for means of communicating the necessary and basic legal information to international couples.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of report on the proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of matrimonial property regimes. the regulation covers jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of matrimonial property regimes. i voted in favour because i believe that this regulation will be a very useful instrument for international couples in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters. i believe that the regulation will remove many instances of ambiguity and legal uncertainty for international couples within the european union. in the area of matrimonial property regimes, it covers jurisdiction and the law applicable, as well as the recognition and enforcement of judgments. in particular, questions of the legal capacity and capacity of the spouses, the existence, validity and recognition of marriage, maintenance obligations and succession are excluded from its scope. it also preserves the autonomy of the member states in the field of family law.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matters of property consequences of registered partnerships is the second of its kind. after the negotiations between the member states have come to a standstill, the proposal is returned to parliament in the form of enhanced cooperation. the part on the applicable law is universally applicable and thus also allows the application of the law of third countries. the principle of the unity of the applicable law, according to which the law on the property consequences of registered partnerships applies to all property within the partnership, regardless of its location, is the greatest advance in this respect. this eliminates the system of division of the legal status of the property of couples. the regulation allows for a choice of law applicable to the property consequences of a registered partnership, but the choice is limited, since citizenship or habitual residence must be held in the country chosen. the difference between this proposal and the proposal for a regulation on matrimonial property regimes is that registered partners will be able to choose the law of the country in which the partnership is registered. the report stresses that the proposed regulation on the property consequences of registered partnerships is in the interest of international couples living in the eu, as it will remove many instances of ambiguity and legal uncertainty. that is why i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of property consequences of registered partnerships. the regulation also clearly defines, inter alia, the court with jurisdiction to hear and determine claims relating to the property consequences of registered partnerships. i also supported the report because the regulation covers jurisdiction and applicable law, as well as the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matters of property consequences of registered partnerships, but excludes from its scope, in particular, questions of legal and business capacity of partners.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a regulation governing jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of matrimonial property regime. the scope of the regulation does not cover matters such as the legal capacity of partners, the existence, validity or recognition of a partnership, maintenance obligations or the inheritance of the estate of a deceased partner. the autonomy of the member states in the field of family law is therefore preserved. nor does the regulation affect or interfere with the substantive law of the member states on registered partnerships and property regimes. the regulation clearly defines the court with jurisdiction to rule on the property consequences of registered partnerships. moreover, it provides that, if a member state does not recognise a partnership, the courts of that member state are to be given a discretion which confers jurisdiction in the matter on the courts of the other member states which recognise that partnership. the proposal also respects the principle of the unity of the applicable legislation, whereby the law on the property consequences of registered partnerships applies to all property created during the partnership, regardless of where it is located.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of the property consequences of registered partnerships. the regulation covers jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of property consequences of registered partnership. i voted in favour because i believe that this regulation will be a very useful instrument for international couples in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of property consequences of registered partnerships. the regulation, inter alia, clearly defines which court has jurisdiction to rule on claims relating to the property consequences of registered partnerships and i believe that it will remove many instances of ambiguity and legal uncertainty for international couples within the european union.
in writing. ‒ in the area around the city of beni in the east of the democratic republic of the congo, more than 600 civilians have been brutally murdered with machetes, axes and knives since 2014, including women, children and even infants. at the same time, armed groups have not only used sexual violence as a weapon of war but have also recruited child soldiers. the great inability to bring human rights violators to justice has resulted in a great deal of impunity and new crimes. the fighting in eastern congo stems from multiple sources, including ethnic conflict, political discontent, and regional geopolitics. this unreliable mix is further exacerbated by the lack of resources in the impoverished region. in view of all this, we, the members of the european parliament, have decided to adopt a resolution condemning the continuing attacks by armed groups and the use of extreme violence against the population of the democratic republic of the congo in the eastern provinces and calling on all relevant authorities to take immediate action and bring the perpetrators to justice. the resolution calls on the prosecutor of the international criminal court to gather information and examine abuses to determine whether an investigation by the international criminal court into alleged crimes in the beni area is necessary. in view of all this, i welcome the resolution and have supported it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the massacres in eastern congo. i support the call in the resolution for all parties to the conflict to end violence immediately, to lay down their arms and to release all children from their families, while at the same time beginning to promote dialogue for a peaceful and lasting solution to the conflict. the security and human rights situation in the drc has recently continued to deteriorate due to the activities of dozens of armed groups. the priority of the government of the democratic republic of the congo should be to disarm armed groups and to establish lasting security and peace for all citizens.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the massacres in eastern congo. in the area around the city of beni in the east of the democratic republic of the congo, more than 600 civilians have been brutally murdered with machetes, axes and knives since 2014, including women, children and even infants. these massacres are the worst violence in the country in a decade, and neither the congolese authorities nor the monusco mission have officially investigated. in the more than ten years of conflict in eastern congo, civilians have been systematically attacked by a number of armed groups. they used sexual violence as a weapon of war and recruited child soldiers. the great inability to bring human rights violators to justice has led to a great deal of impunity and new crimes. the fighting in eastern congo stems from multiple sources, including ethnic conflict, political discontent and regional geopolitics, and this precarious mix is exacerbated by the resource shortages in the impoverished region. the informal or artisanal mining sector accounts for almost one fifth of the country's economic output and employs one million congolese, while also providing a source of profit for rebels and corrupt government soldiers, as well as for traders from neighbouring countries who trade directly or through local armed allies. the peace process is hampered by the unsuccessful efforts of the drc to demobilize thousands of rebel fighters, either by incorporating them into the national army or by assisting them in their integration into civilian life.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolutions on massacres in eastern congo. the resolution recalls the commitment made by the drc under the cotonou agreement to respecting democracy, the rule of law and human rights principles. the resolution condemns all attacks against humanitarian actors and impediments to humanitarian access and urges all parties to the conflict to respect the independence, neutrality and impartiality of humanitarian actors. the resolution equally calls the eu to intensify its dialogue with the drc and to focus its development cooperation on building better governance and improving the weak military, police and judicial system in the country. the resolution considers that the relevant authorities and the international community must prioritise putting an end to the phenomenon of child soldiers. i voted in favour because i strongly believe that the massacres and crimes against humanity which are still going on in eastern congo should be stopped promptly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the massacres in eastern congo. the security and human rights situation in the eastern part of the drc continues to deteriorate, with dozens of armed groups still active in the area, and with numerous reports of massacres, recruitment and use of children by armed groups, and widespread sexual and gender-based violence. i therefore support the call for all parties to the conflict to end violence immediately, to lay down their arms, to release all children from their families and to begin to promote dialogue for a peaceful and lasting solution to the conflict.
in writing. ‒ the last decade has seen a sharp increase in the number of people entering formal education, while europe is still plagued by unprecedented levels of youth unemployment, which also affect graduates. between 2011 and 2014, the average unemployment rate in the eu increased most among young people. the report on the follow-up to the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training is divided into three parts, the strategic framework, the quality of education and training and migration and education. in this way, the report fails to take account of the main challenges in the field of education and training in europe, as it does not follow a holistic approach. moreover, despite the fact that the report has an entire chapter dedicated to migration and education, it does not even touch on the challenges associated with refugees. in addition, the report lacks a stronger link between education, entrepreneurship and research, as well as the involvement of the social partners and civil society. although the report emphasises that education is good for personal and consequently social growth over economic well-being, i believe that the recommendations are rather unbalanced and promote a traditional view of society. on the basis of the above, i consider that the report does not contribute to the further development of agenda 2020 and therefore i voted against the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the further examination of the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training. education and training should be a value in itself, not just aimed at meeting labour market needs. i agree with the report that welcomes the et 2020 status review, while stressing that the conclusions of this review should be taken into account and implemented without delay in order to increase the added value of the framework and optimise its effectiveness and enhance country-specific relevance and mutual learning. i also agree that very serious problems in the field of education and training remain unresolved in terms of quality, accessibility and socioeconomic discrimination.
in writing. ‒ at a time of high youth unemployment, which also affects graduates, the most important step is to evaluate the european et2020 framework in order to increase its added value and optimise its effectiveness. i therefore supported the motion for a resolution on the continuation of the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training. the resolution contains a number of political priorities and positive recommendations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on follow-up to the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training (et2020). the stocktaking exercise on the et2020 framework was conducted in 2014 by the commission in cooperation with the member states. the report urges that greater attention be devoted to the quality of education, starting in the kindergarten and throughout life. it calls for the development of good practices in assessing qualitative progress and investment in the use of quality data with stakeholders at local, regional and national level. the report emphasises the importance of providing high-quality early childhood education and of its timely modernisation. it calls on the member states to channel investment into inclusive education that responds to societal challenges with regard to ensuring equal access and opportunities for all. i voted in favour because i believe that education and training are important in helping people to acquire the knowledge and professional skills they need to become competitive and innovative employees.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the further examination of the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training. education and training must be adapted to labour market needs, as this is the only way to help increase the employment of young and old people and strengthen the economy. at the same time, education and training must also contribute to the development of the individual's ethical and civic competences and humanistic values. member states should focus investment on inclusive education that responds to societal challenges and enhances lifelong learning opportunities.
in writing. ‒ the development of renewable energy requires a new approach that will make it a fundamental pillar of the european union's energy model. the fight against climate change is our fundamental responsibility and a historic duty that we must fulfil. we also need to reduce our dependence on energy sources from other parts of the world if we are to consolidate our production model and create quality jobs and lead the development of strategic technologies for the energy transition. the transition to a sustainable energy production model is a social priority that cannot be addressed from a market perspective alone. for this reason, we must understand that regulation and democratic participation are necessary to prevent serious social and environmental externalities. we must prevent energy oligopolies from determining the future of europe's energy. it is important that we try to achieve the goal of having an economy based on 100% renewable energy. the report underlines the importance of binding targets at national level and the need for a stable policy framework. the report calls for more ambitious targets for 2030 and for countries that are lagging behind in renewable energy to be highlighted. at the initiative of the greens, the report also reinforces the future of energy management and clearly defines the reporting requirements of countries in this area. that's why i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the progress report on renewable energy. the european union's 2020 renewable energy targets are ambitious and the european union as a whole is well on track to meet them, but there are still significant reservations in some member states. the commission should therefore ensure that the 2020 renewable energy directive is fully implemented, while providing a strong legal framework beyond 2020 with binding renewable energy targets that are aligned with the most effective way to achieve the union's long-term climate objectives.
in writing. ‒ i supported the progress report on renewable energy. the european union is well on track to reach its 20% green energy share target. the report demonstrates that europe is good at green energy and green energy is good for europe. renewable energy sources are one of the most effective ways of reducing dependence on fossil fuels and contribute to the creation of a low-carbon economy. in addition, renewable energy sources are cost-effective, increase market competitiveness and promote diversity. however, there is a need to improve national policies and the commission needs to strengthen its role in monitoring and supporting progress in the field of renewable energy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the renewable energy progress report. the report stresses the importance of simple, accessible, affordable and efficient administrative procedures. the development of renewable energies calls for a new approach that entails making them the main pillar of the european union’s energy model. the report highlights the significance of an eu legislative proposal on energy market rules, as a more integrated market is key to the development of renewables and to reducing energy costs for families and industry. in addition, the report notes that increased regional cooperation on renewables is key to ensuring the further development of renewable energy sources. i voted in favour because i believe that we have a fundamental responsibility to combat climate change – a historic duty that we must fulfil.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the progress report on renewable energy. in accordance with article 194 tfeu, european energy policy is to ensure the functioning of the energy market and the security of energy supply, and to promote energy efficiency, energy saving and the development of renewable energy sources, as well as the interconnection of energy networks. i therefore agree with the conclusions of the report that future legislation and measures must be based on renewable energy, which will allow the full market representation of technologies for this energy.
in writing. ‒ in the european union, greenhouse gas emissions fell by 23% between 1990 and 2014. at the same time, eu gdp increased by 46%. businesses and citizens are increasingly generating growth, jobs and tax revenues, while at the same time reducing their climate impact, which is good news. the european union is on track to meet its 2020 targets, largely thanks to a successful emissions trading system. this not only encourages emission reductions but also investment in energy-efficient technologies. the economic and financial crisis in some countries undoubtedly contributed to the achievement of the targets. the european union's success in reducing greenhouse gases is commendable, but that does not mean that more could not be done to improve energy efficiency. the report under discussion is a good one, as it calls on the european commission to set a binding target of reducing greenhouse gases by 40% by 2030, thus following the targets agreed in paris at cop 21. that is why i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive. this is a very important report and mr pieper has done a great job of reaching a compromise. but i voted against the report because, within the amendment vote, there were a few amendments voted on which call on the commission to set a binding 40% energy efficiency target for 2030 which will reflect the potential for cost-effective energy efficiency, which i cannot agree with. it would be much better to set a target of at least 30% of energy efficiency improvements by 2030 to achieve a higher target of 40% reflecting the full economic potential.
in writing. ‒ energy policy is of great importance to the european union. we are on track to achieve our 20% efficiency target by 2020, despite the fact that the directive has not been fully implemented in most member states. this demonstrates that energy efficiency is in the interest of businesses and households. the report contains a number of positive points such as the importance of energy efficiency in achieving our climate goals, the flexibility in article 7, the need for better monitoring and clarification of the definition of smes, and the state aid rules. i still rejected the directive. the directive places too much emphasis on energy saving rather than energy efficiency. because of the key elements that were not adopted, i cannot support this report either.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation report on the energy efficiency directive. the report emphasises that improving energy efficiency is crucial to achieving our climate targets. the report stresses that this is essential to start the transition towards a more sustainable energy system based on renewables and away from fossil fuels as soon as possible. the report recalls that the transition towards a more sustainable energy is also vital to job creation and sustainable growth. i voted in favour of the report because i strongly believe that the implementation of the energy efficiency directive is a major progress towards achieving the eu’s climate and energy targets.
in writing. ‒ improving energy efficiency and energy savings are important for protecting the environment and climate, enhancing economic competitiveness, creating new jobs and ensuring energy security. this can be achieved by promoting energy efficiency through tax reductions and additional funding. the report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive, as advocated by the left (with a binding target of 40% savings by 2030 for individual member states), is unrealistic and does not contribute to more efficient use of energy. the result of such a binding target could be a large increase in energy prices and the establishment of building quotas that neither local authorities nor residents can afford.
in writing. brexit has made a deep dent in the perception of the future of the european union. the days following the referendum paint a picture of confusion, even misunderstanding, and the question of what really happened hangs in the air. it turned out that many people did not know what they were really saying, and that by casting their votes, they were deciding the future destiny of entire generations. i believe that the main thing to do is to make room for the constructive dialogue that europe urgently needs in this situation. the resolution adopted by the european parliament calls for the early activation of article 50 of the lisbon treaty, although it is clear that only the british can do this themselves. the text should reflect the real situation and be much more forward-looking. we need clear commitments to fundamentally change the way the eu operates, which must return to citizens and put them at the heart of its actions. but it is true that britain is not going anywhere, it will still be somewhere between 20 and 20 miles, the narrowest part between the british isles and mainland europe, and it will not move an inch forward or backward. but it can go a long way towards understanding democracy, the will of the people and the concept of the referendum as the broadest instrument for taking account of the will of the people.
in writing. i regret that the british people have decided to leave the european union. of course, we all hoped it wouldn't come to that. we knew that the decision for or against would not be rational, but emotional. that's why it was impossible to predict the outcome with any certainty. this decision is not only important from an economic point of view, but it is above all a symbolic message. initial reactions in financial markets suggest that the withdrawal will not go unchallenged. not for the eu, not for the uk, which by all accounts will be the big loser of this decision. but there's no going back. it's a british decision, and we have to respect that decision. it has proved what i had pointed out before the referendum, that britain is not just the city of london and that the will of the people cannot be underestimated. what will happen to the european union? we'll see in the coming months, years. we do not need more europe, but a better europe. a europe that respects the will of the people and responds to their demands. a europe that is able to identify and respond to real problems. a europe where rights and obligations are part of the same package. the british referendum was a sobering reminder that the european union as it is is not, by definition, destined to remain forever.
in writing. ‒ brexit has made a deep dent in the perception of the future of the european union. unfortunately, there is a rhetoric of blaming, excluding and pointing fingers among members of the european parliament. i believe that the main thing to do is to make room for the constructive dialogue that europe urgently needs in this situation. at this point, nothing is clear except the great uncertainty both on the european continent and in the british isles. the resolution adopted by the european parliament calls for the early activation of article 50 of the lisbon treaty, although it is clear that only the british can do this themselves. the text should reflect the real situation and be much more forward-looking. we need clear commitments to fundamentally change the way the eu operates, which must return to citizens and put them at the heart of its actions. i regret that the resolution on brexit does not reflect this, and i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the decision to leave the eu resulting from the referendum in the united kingdom. the official data clearly shows that if only the young voters' votes were taken into account, the uk would remain in the european union, which is a very clear signal that young people, who are already struggling with unemployment, continue to want the right to live, study and work in the 27 countries. unfortunately, the populists have been much louder, pointing the finger at the european union, claiming that it is the main culprit for all the problems, which is of course not true. as soon as the results were announced, we were confronted with the negative consequences of the referendum on financial markets, most notably the fall of the pound to its lowest level since 1985 and the fall in consumption and investment. also, the rating agencies have in recent days downgraded the uk's credit rating to negative. we need a united response, not one that is judgmental, not one that is finger pointing, but one that is constructive and forward-looking. we can't just bury our heads in the sand and pretend like nothing happened, but we need to do some self-reflection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's joint resolution on the outcome of the referendum in the united kingdom. i deeply regret the outcome, but i believe that the decision of the people must be respected and that the process of the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union must therefore be started as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the decision to leave the eu resulting from the referendum in the united kingdom. i agree that the future of the union needs to be considered and i believe that we must protect the integrity of the union and its citizens by promoting common values, ensuring stability and social security, providing jobs and effectively addressing the challenges of migration. therefore, the notification provided for in article 50 teu should be issued as soon as possible in order to avoid uncertainty to the detriment of all.
the refugee crisis is also a political crisis today, and despite the fact that a long time has passed since the first wave of refugees began, some basic questions remain unanswered. namely, how many refugees can europe help, and how many migrants can europe employ? there are no easy answers, of course, but running away from them will not bring better solutions. of course, we are a social europe and we want and want to help all those who are fleeing war, but we must also be realistic and realise that there is no single recipe for integrating refugees into the labour market. because of course the labour markets in different countries are not the same, they need new labour in one place and have problems in another because they have too many unemployed. if we are not able to separate the different situations of individual countries, i think we will not be able to achieve this goal of actually helping those who really need help.
so we're facing one of the most complex challenges of recent times, we're facing the biggest displacement since world war ii, and, of course, the integration of these people, refugees, into society also depends on their inclusion in the labor market. it is therefore necessary to support and open up new sources of funding that will encourage a greater and more active employment policy and the integration of these groups of so-called humanitarian refugees. but we cannot, of course, pass by the building of so-called educational bridges, because education is also one of the key elements for better inclusion. of course, practices vary from country to country, and i think we should support and emulate those practices that are positive, good. it is true that the unemployment situation differs across european countries, which should be taken into account. above all, the worst thing would be if refugees also became a category of the permanently unemployed.
the youth guarantee and the youth employment initiative are certainly two very useful measures implemented by the european union and can greatly help the generation that is facing the greatest problems in employment today, namely the young. we must also be aware that the employment of young people is also very much dependent on the member states, which must, through the reform of the education system, the integration of education, research and the economy, create the conditions in which these jobs will be created. i therefore fully support this directive to analyse in detail how these funds are used, but also to look at good practice and then, country by country, to identify which and how this measure will be most effective in each country. we need not only talk about the responsibility of the european union, but also, to a large extent, about the responsibility of the member states, which often fail at this level.
in writing. the youth guarantee programme was a new approach to tackling youth unemployment, which we endorsed with the aim of ensuring long-term employment for young people. however, i wonder whether the member states are actually implementing the measures of the programme as they should and whether the programme is achieving its purpose. a recent survey of young people in slovenia has produced worrying results. young people are very critical of the implementation of the programme, as less than 10% of young people actually got a job after the programme ended. they also feel that some courses are unusable, inappropriate and not tailored to the individual. i am not aware of surveys in other member states. but what can we learn from this? there is an urgent need to increase the involvement of all stakeholders and to strengthen the control of the implementation of the programmes. i also believe that, as a complement to the youth guarantee, the implementation of reforms and the improvement of education and training systems is essential.
in writing. recently, the eu youth employment rate has improved, with around 4.4 million under-25 unemployed in february 2016, up from around 5 million until recently. but it is difficult to assess whether the improvement is linked to the youth guarantee and the youth employment initiative or whether it is due to other circumstances. for example, the court of auditors' special report of the end of 2015 on measures in the field of youth employment estimates that the expenditure of funds was not sufficiently focused on results. these two mechanisms were proposed at a time when the rate of youth unemployment in the eu was extremely high and showed no signs of decreasing. as rapporteur for the els legislative opinion group, i was involved in the increase in pre-financing under the youth employment initiative last year. this represented about €1 billion for half a million young people in 20 eu countries. last year i stressed the importance of using resources efficiently. the european commission should monitor spending so that the money really benefits the end users, the unemployed young people, and not the bureaucrats and middlemen. member states must demonstrate that the activities financed by both mechanisms have actually led to an increase in youth employment.
i very much support the progress being made in the area of energy efficiency. energy efficiency is the best answer to the key challenges ahead. on the one hand, it is reducing climate change, and on the other, it is reducing europe's energy dependence. in a way, i am glad that in these 20 years, when europe has been working intensively on this, the advantages of the a have actually been lost, because it says that we are moving in the right direction, and, on the other hand, it calls for a change to make such labelling more precise or clearer for consumers. i therefore support the amendment of these labels, the moving them from a to g, the restoration of the possibilities for advancement, as we like to say, on the one hand, and the effective control of the implementation of these measures, on the other, because in the past the question has been raised on several occasions as to whether the information on the labels of these products is accurate. i support these measures.
in writing. in the context of the fight against trafficking in human beings, i would like to draw attention to the trafficking of human organs, which is one of the ten largest illegal activities in the profit-making sector. despite the lack of publicity, however, human trafficking is a serious problem in some countries, and it should not be ignored. slovenia is primarily a transit country for such criminal activities, which means that law enforcement authorities have a greater responsibility in detecting the activities of criminal groups. the amber alert, signed by the highest number of meps in the european parliament in the last five years, was sent to the president, prime minister and minister of the interior to connect slovenia to the european child rescue alert and missing children police network, but i have not received a response to date, which does not give me optimism that the slovenian government is aware of the seriousness of the problem. in the eu, 250,000 children go missing every year, many of them victims of organ trafficking.
today i would like to talk about the european fund for strategic investments. the european commission has published results showing that the efsi is achieving its purpose to some extent. the results are quite encouraging. investing in infrastructure is certainly very important, but we must not forget about investing in people. because it is often felt that investments in society and in the social aspect of our lives are greatly underestimated. i believe that, given our demographics, more attention should also be paid to social projects within the efsi. finally, the social sector has long been known to be the sector which has recently generated the most jobs. and that is, of course, why it deserves a special place in the efsi. i call on the commission to do something about it.
the european union today is not business as usual, and we all know that change is necessary. i must say that after a long time, i am pleased with the unity and above all the resilience shown by the european leaders in the final decision to leave the united kingdom. we have informed the british that, sorry, there will be no additional british discounts this time. there is no turning back, and the man who started this movement, cameron, has to take responsibility for his actions in front of the american people. or, to put it another way, a cake can be whole or full, but it can't be both. now we're worried that the wave of the referendum will sweep through another member state. what are we afraid of? because we are aware that part of the responsibility for british cuisine lies with the past behaviour of the european union. because we know, and we've known for a long time, what was wrong and what is still wrong. so i suggest that we stop debating so much on the principle level: should, should, should and possibly backwards. people are sick and tired of it and they don't want to listen to us anymore. let us not merely discuss the crisis issues or the decisions of the previous council, but prepare for the future. personally, i propose three urgent points: immediate unbundling of plans and taking into account the votes of citizens where they have already been clearly expressed (e.g. the right to water, the end of secret negotiations on trade agreements); a pan-european debate with citizens, where they can co-design the future institutional structure of the union with concrete proposals and determine the content that is relevant to their daily lives; and perhaps the possibility of co-decision for young people, to start with the granting of the right to vote, perhaps at the age of 16 (at least for european elections), if we want young people to participate. not tomorrow, but today, let's start to take concrete steps towards the future.
the people of the united kingdom have chosen their path by a slim majority. we have to respect the decision. the economy immediately contracted as markets reacted negatively. how will they react when the united kingdom invokes article 50 of the lisbon treaty? the economy doesn't like uncertainty, and it can't stand being alone. but now is the time to come together and start working towards a better union. but one thing is certain: no one can reap the benefits of the european union without respecting its values, principles and commitments. the european union is undoubtedly a time for self-reflection, although i am not a fan of the fact that in every crisis... we should question the meaning of community. but i believe we will find a way to a better union, one that is big and effective in the face of big challenges and small and invisible in the face of small ones. the blood was smelled by eurosceptics all over europe after brexit. but citizens are realizing that their cheap solutions to complex challenges are the wrong way. moreover, the positive climate, or support for the union, has increased in most countries, which is bad news for the protagonists of brexit. despite brexit, we must pay particular attention to young uk citizens who are open and friendly towards the union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed recommendation concerning the eu-peru visa waiver agreement. the agreement is the result of a deepening of relations between the eu and peru and at the same time a means of strengthening economic and cultural relations between the partners. i am also convinced that the adoption of the agreement will improve the situation in tourism and trade. the eu is peru's third largest trading partner for imports of machinery and transport equipment and its most important export partner for agri-food and mining products. tourism is strongly developing in peru, and as of 2012, it is the second most important economic sector in the country. i would also like to highlight the issue of human rights, in which i believe that the agreement on visa liberalisation will allow for a balanced political dialogue on human rights, which are one of the eu's fundamental postulates. peru can also become an important partner in the fight against organised crime, in particular drug trafficking and human trafficking. at a time when the exchange of information on organised crime is of paramount importance, peru's interest in concluding a strategic cooperation agreement with europol is a very positive sign that could represent a significant step forward in strengthening cooperation between the eu and peru in the fight against organised crime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of peru on the short-stay visa waiver. following a positive assessment of the situation in peru by the commission, which assessed the potential risks of visa liberalisation, negotiations were opened on an agreement signed in brussels in march this year. i support the agreement signed today which will allow citizens of the european union and peru to travel without a visa for up to 90 days. this will also strengthen bilateral relations between the eu and peru, both in the economic field and in the field of political dialogue on a range of important issues.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the recommendation is to conclude an agreement with the republic of peru on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement takes into account the situation of eu member states which do not apply the schengen acquis in full. it also provides for visa-free travel for eu citizens and for citizens of the republic of peru in cases of travel to the territory of the other party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (civilians, diplomats, officials/officers, holders of special passports) travelling for any purpose other than paid employment. for these reasons, i supported the recommendation to conclude an agreement between the eu and the republic of peru on the short-stay visa waiver.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of peru on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement marks a significant milestone in the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of peru and is an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the agreement will strengthen regional coherence, given that peru is one of the minority of latin american countries whose nationals still need a visa, and will have a significant impact on rapprochement between the peoples of europe and peru. having in mind that peru has recorded one of the highest rates of economic growth in latin america, i voted in favour because i believe that the agreement will boost tourism and help to intensify trade and investment relations.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of peru on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement signed allows citizens of the european union and peru to travel without a visa to the territory of the other party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. this agreement will, inter alia, boost tourism and help to strengthen trade relations, increase investment and promote cooperation in the fight against organised crime, in particular drug trafficking, and human trafficking.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the extension of the emission limit values to other motor vehicles and non-road vehicles. the proposal thus covers, for example, construction machinery, locomotives, as well as propulsion units in inland waterway transport. together, such engines produce as much as 15% of nitrogen oxides emissions and 5% of pm emissions, and therefore regulation and setting of limit values for such engines is necessary. the report strikes a balance between health and environmental issues on the one hand and the competitiveness of the eu manufacturing industry, the jobs and the knowledge it brings, on the other. the health and safety of eu citizens, especially those who work with machinery on a daily basis and are particularly exposed to pollutant emissions, are given the highest priority. i agree with the rapporteur, who is positive that the issue is being addressed in the framework of the regulation, thereby providing the industry with a more stable regulatory environment, which is essential for long-term development and production planning. the report proposal also reduces administrative obligations and guidance on the use of the existing internal market information system, which is more favourable than the introduction of a new administrative arrangement. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution because of the need to adopt a separate set of rules to fully take into account the specific requirements related to engines for non-road mobile machinery that followed the new regulatory approach to the type-approval of engines. the resolution lays down the basic provisions on gaseous and solid pollutant emissions and type-approval for internal combustion engines for non-road mobile machinery. in this way, harmonised rules for eu type-approval of engines for non-road mobile machinery will ensure the functioning of the internal market in this field and follow the commitments to reduce emissions and ensure air quality, thereby limiting adverse health effects.
in writing. ‒ the proposal sets conditions in relation to emission limit values and type-approval for internal combustion engines for non-road mobile machinery. the legislation covers a wide range of engines, which are major contributors to air pollution and are responsible for around 15% of nitrogen oxides and 5% of particulate matter emissions in the european union. compared with existing legislation, this proposal introduces new thresholds that better reflect technological progress as well as the european union's road policy. although the report is less ambitious than the original proposal on limiting nitrous oxide for inland waterways, it still represents a major step forward in limiting pollution from engine categories. in this context, i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on emission limit values and type-approval requirements for internal combustion engines for non-road mobile machinery.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on emission limit values and type-approval requirements for internal combustion engines for non-road mobile machinery. non-road mobile machinery is one of the factors contributing to harmful emissions in the form of gases or particulates. it is important to recognise that many urban areas in the european union today do not fully meet air quality standards. i also support the proposals for amendments to the regulation, in particular the amendment which stresses that, in addition to reducing market distortions, the purpose of this regulation is to simplify the applicable legal framework, including measures to simplify administrative procedures.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a regulation on emission limit values and type-approval requirements for internal combustion engines for non-road mobile machinery. the proposal aims to establish new requirements to reduce emissions of harmful substances from engines incorporated in non-road mobile machinery. the proposal covers a wide range of different types of internal combustion engines, which are responsible for around 15% of nitrogen oxide and 5% of particulate matter emissions in the eu, and introduces new emission limit values. these are rather severe restrictions, but still reasonable enough to allow the industry to comply with the new requirements. the regulation maintains a balanced approach between protecting the environment and safeguarding the competitiveness of eu industry. the new rules will simplify the implementation phase of the introduction of new emission limit values and type-approval procedures, with a view to reducing the burden on manufacturers. the exchange of data and information will also be facilitated through the use of the internal market information system. the proposal also allows the possibility of replacing old non-road mobile machinery engines that have failed with engines of the same type within a certain time limit, where the replacement using a new and improved engine type is incompatible with the older model.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on requirements relating to emission limits and type-approval for internal combustion engines for non-road mobile machinery. the regulation aims to help address the public health concern created by studies identifying ultra-fine particles as a carcinogenic substance, to generally improve air quality and to create a market without barriers not only within the eu but also with our main trade partners around the world. today, several eu urban areas do not fully meet the air-quality standards and the problem is growing, as more people are attracted to live in conglomerations. i voted in favour because i believe that technological progress can justify stricter regulation without putting undue pressure on the manufacturing industry.
in writing. - i supported the proposed report. from the very beginning of the refugee and migrant crisis, i have been drawing attention to europe's absorption capacity with regard to refugees, particularly in terms of their integration into society and their integration into the labour market. with the current unemployment trends across the eu, monitoring is all the more important and we need to pour some pure wine on these issues. the report is, in my view, an appropriate compromise between rights, responsibilities and solidarity. the report identifies the following as objectives: to clarify the content of the report, to define precisely what it means to be a refugee and to take into account the main elements of the current debate; to highlight the most important problems, challenges and opportunities presented by the integration and inclusion of refugees in society and in the labour market; to examine the development and impact of recent measures, activities and practices at union and member state level to adapt integration and inclusion to our society, and to examine the impact of the recent measures, activities and practices at union and member state level on the integration and inclusion of refugees in society. the problem of excessive migration flows will only be solved in the long term by an appropriate foreign and security policy of the eu and other global actors, aimed at bringing peace to the areas where migration pressures are greatest. cooperation with third countries, humanitarian and development aid, investment, security and defence policies are important. while reducing migration pressures to normal levels, other policies such as employment, education, social welfare and health policy will need to be adapted.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it is acceptable in terms of content in the light of the current situation and offers a range of options and responses. as the report states, firstly, a clear distinction needs to be made between the term 'refugee' and 'economic migrant', in particular for the purposes of implementing different european and international policies. education and training, especially in language, is important to facilitate integration into society and is of paramount importance for entering the labour market. integration must be based on equal opportunities for all refugees, with attention to girls and women as a vulnerable group.
in writing. ‒ the refugee crisis is probably one of the greatest challenges facing the european union and its member states today, given its scale, its phases and the complexity of its social, political and economic consequences. this is primarily a global humanitarian crisis, but it is also a political crisis that has caught the european union off guard. this requires urgent and decisive action by policy-makers, as well as long-term action, in line with the needs of society and the demands of the labour market. the report aims to highlight the main problems, challenges and opportunities of integrating refugees into society and the labour market and to examine the development and impact of recent measures, activities and practices at european union level. the report also contains a set of proposals, recommendations and initiatives to achieve better integration of refugees into society and the labour market. what i particularly like about the report is that it calls for the security of those who are entitled to enter the host countries to be guaranteed, and thus for the improvement of legal and therefore safe channels of migration. the report also calls for the establishment of a language learning system to facilitate the integration of migrants. the situation of women and concerns for their safety are also highlighted. i think that the report is good and i have supported it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on refugees: integration into society and the labour market. the refugee and migrant crisis facing the european union in recent months has also had a profound impact on the labour market. the european union must ensure safe and legal migration and respect for existing rules and european rights and values. women are particularly vulnerable, facing gender-based violence and cultural barriers to accessing the health system. by facilitating refugees' access to housing, healthcare, education, social protection and the labour market, they will become more integrated and thus regain their basic human dignity.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the integration of refugees into society and the labour market, as it addresses the challenge of the social integration of refugees and their integration into the labour market and the education system. the refugee crisis is one of the biggest challenges facing the eu today. as a social europe, we have a duty to provide help to those who need it. finding work and becoming economically independent is the best way to integrate refugees into society. in some eu member states, record levels of unemployment, poverty and slow economic recovery could hamper the integration of refugees into society. the development of measures to effectively integrate refugees into society is also made more problematic by the widespread unpopularity of refugees in the public eye. forms of discrimination, xenophobia and racism still exist or are even on the increase, and europe must be active in combating such phenomena. to tackle such a large task, we need to make better use of existing eu-level instruments when planning measures to integrate refugees into society and the labour market, and above all, we need to tackle such a complex challenge in a unified way. it is true that the desire for integration must be mutual.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on refugees: social inclusion and integration into the labour market. procedures for granting asylum and labour market conditions differ markedly across the eu. in addition, refugees have a wide variety of ages, education, skills and abilities to work. social inclusion schemes should therefore aim to be a dynamic, two-way process between refugees and host communities, in which all partners have rights and duties, while the process itself adapts to the situation on the ground. i voted in favour because i believe that access for refugees and asylum seekers to the labour market, housing, health care, education and social protection restores their human dignity and self-worth. moreover, employment enables them to become economically independent and to give something back to society by becoming taxpayers.
in writing. ‒ human rights are universal and must be granted to every individual, regardless of his or her origin and place of origin. we must strive to ensure that they are respected in all social and commercial processes, international cooperation and elsewhere. the report proposed raises, in my view, key questions which call for greater social responsibility, and i therefore supported it. the report states, inter alia, that all eu trade agreements should also include provisions on corporate social responsibility and on the investigation of alleged breaches of commitments in this area. we also call for increased efforts to respect social responsibility standards and labour standards along the entire supply chain. the commission is also invited to take the initiative in reforming the wto's trade policy review mechanisms to include social, environmental and human rights aspects. finally, the report also stresses the importance of more responsible management of supply chains at international level and calls on the commission to pursue similar programmes and actions with other eu trading partners.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a resolution which stresses the importance of trade and foreign investment as important tools for achieving economic growth and good governance and calls on the ec to play an active role in achieving the sustainable development goals. trade plays a strong role in promoting business opportunities, creating prosperity and increasing employment, and in driving economic development, social progress, living standards, quality of life and long-term improvements in human rights standards. the ec must make a positive contribution in these areas, thereby supporting social and environmental progress.
in writing. ‒ the report reflects the european commission's progress since 2010, when the european parliament adopted recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate social responsibility. that resolution called, inter alia, on the commission and the member states to integrate the gender perspective into all their policies and, inter alia, to ensure effective compliance with the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. at the same time, the report also recalls that the eu is committed to the consistent promotion and respect of human rights and democracy in its relations with third countries in all its policies, including trade, and in all its relevant external financing instruments. the report reveals that the european commission has failed to carry out a radical reform of its policy to make trade a tool for achieving eu objectives and protecting the environment and human rights. the report mentions the reform of the world trade organisation and proposes a number of good changes, but at the same time fails to address the main problem of the hierarchy of norms within the united nations. the report supports the human rights conditionality of trade agreements and supports the idea that the trade and sustainable development chapters and the human rights provisions should be covered by the main dispute settlement mechanisms of trade agreements. although i would like to see the report improve, i think it contributes to improving the situation and i supported it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of parliament's 2010 recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate social responsibility. some of the european commission's 2010 recommendations have been followed, but some have not. i therefore support the call on the commission and the member states to mainstream their policies, while at the same time the commission should take gender equality aspects into account in its assessment of the impact of eu trade policy on women's rights. i also support the call on the commission to ensure greater development coherence and to ensure effective policy evaluation and coordination between development aid and trade policy.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the implementation of parliament's 2010 recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate social responsibility. the report aims to analyse the implementation of social and environmental standards and corporate social responsibility in trade policy, in particular in trade negotiations. however, since 2010 there have been many changes in the standards in trade agreements. the market is a tool for promoting european values and an instrument that can bring about the effective and systematic integration and implementation of social and environmental standards in general practice. the inclusion of sustainable development provisions in trade agreements will benefit all parties, and closer cooperation in this area with the international labour organisation is also essential.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on implementation of the 2010 recommendations of parliament on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility. this report calls on the commission and member states to incorporate a gender-mainstreaming approach into all their policies, including trade policy, and to guarantee inter alia effective compliance with the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. in addition, the report calls on the eu to play an active role in achieving the 17 sustainable development goals (sdgs) contained in the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. the report equally urges the eu and the member states to promote binding measures to ensure that companies pay taxes where economic activities take place and value is created. furthermore, it stresses the significance of trade and foreign investment as important tools to achieve economic growth, sustainable development, good governance and the protection of human rights. i voted in favour because i am of the opinion that the eu has to remain committed to the coherent promotion of and respect for human rights and democracy in its relations with third countries in all its policies, including trade policy, and in all its relevant external financing instruments.
in writing. ‒ trade is a tool for promoting european values and an instrument that can bring about the effective and systematic integration of social and environmental standards into general practice. i believe that the inclusion of sustainable development provisions and standards benefits all parties. the commission is making a careful effort to integrate social and environmental standards and to implement the 2010 recommendations in trade agreements. in line with this, i also supported the report on the implementation of parliament's 2010 recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate social responsibility.
in writing. ‒ i also supported the proposed report on a forward-looking and innovative trade and investment strategy. this trade policy is of vital importance to the eu. the report is the ep's response to the commission's 2015 strategy paper 'trade for all' for a more responsible trade and investment policy that takes account of most of the challenges facing the eu in the coming years in the field of trade. i fully support the report's approach of enhancing transparency in the context of trade agreement negotiations, responding to people's concerns and also presenting adequately to them the importance of agreements for the future of the european economy. calling on the commission to extend the transparency initiative to all future negotiations therefore seems to me to be key to strengthening citizens' trust in the eu institutions. i have long argued that european standards should be insisted upon when negotiating international agreements. this is true for respect for the principle of subsidiarity as regards the cultivation of gmos or animal welfare standards. the provision in the report that we should only allow agricultural products to be imported into the eu if they meet european standards for consumer protection, animal welfare and environmental protection, as well as minimum social standards, seems to me to be a good indication that we in the eu are not going to deviate from our standards.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that we as the eu need to react and adapt more quickly to changes in the global context. the eu is currently the third-richest economy in the world, and it is forecast to shrink to 26% by 2020. the centre of wealth creation is shifting eastwards towards the asia-pacific region, and demographic developments will also have an impact on the eu's negative position. we therefore need transparent and open trade negotiations at all levels, ensuring greater coherence between the eu's commercial objectives and other aspects of foreign policy.
in writing. ‒ trade has become a highly controversial and political topic, and the european commission has failed to deliver the necessary changes to improve the situation. the report thus calls on the european commission to introduce concrete responses to issues related to sustainable development and human rights. i think the report is rather weak in relation to the greens' demands on the trade and investment strategy. it does not, for example, contain a direct rejection of the establishment of an investment court system. moreover, the report supports the european commission and its aim to protect and enforce intellectual property rights, including patents, trademarks, copyrights, and others. it is true that the report also has good content, such as calling for greater transparency and access to documents. the report also confirms that a change is needed in the light of citizens' concerns that trade, in particular through the introduction of non-trade barriers, is undermining compliance with european union regulations. the report also calls for the effective implementation of decisions related to international environmental and social standards and human rights provisions in the field of trade agreements. in general, i think that the report could have been much better, which is why i have decided not to support it in the sitting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on a new forward-looking and innovative strategy for trade and investment. trade agreements are still needed by the european union, because, as the text rightly says, trade is not an end in itself but a means to prosperity and equality, while promoting business opportunities, sustainable economic development, social progress and cultural understanding. i share the view expressed in the report that the european union's manufacturing sector is crucial to the re-industrialisation of europe and therefore i agree with the call to the commission to work with its trading partners to ensure that their markets are more open to eu businesses.
in writing. ‒ trade and investment are the foundation for growth and job creation. the eu needs an effective policy to tackle the new economic realities. trade and investment policy needs to be more transparent, it needs to be based on values, it needs a forward-looking agenda for negotiations to shape globalisation. i supported the report on a new forward-looking and innovative trade and investment strategy as it emphasises the development of a much more advanced and innovative trade and investment strategy, taking into account the challenges that come with changing phases of world trade. the report puts a new emphasis on elements such as responsible supply chain management, the global digital market, trade in digital goods and services, fair and ethical trade and the social costs of trade liberalisation. the report also highlights the importance of the sustainable development and respect for human rights and corporate social responsibility chapters. in addition, elements and sectors such as the digital economy and the fight against corruption and tax evasion should also be part of the new forward-looking strategy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on a new forward-looking and innovative future strategy for trade and investment. the report stresses the link between the single market and eu trade policy, which should be fully compatible with each other and with the wider policies and values of the union. moreover, it emphasises the link between the single market and eu trade policy, which should be fully compatible with each other and with the wider policies and values of the union. i voted in favour because i believe that open, responsible and free global trade, based on effective, transparent and strong global rules, is essential in order to enable the single market to realise its full potential by functioning, growing and working for the mutual benefit of citizens, consumers and businesses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on a new forward-looking and innovative strategy for trade and investment. eu trade policy is of major geopolitical and economic importance to europe in shaping globalisation, strengthening international standards and increasing access to foreign markets. the commission's new strategy 'trade for all' 'for a more responsible trade and investment policy' puts the emphasis on responsible supply chain management, inclusion in the global digital market and promoting fair and ethical trade.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed report on combating trafficking in human beings. trafficking in human beings is one of the worst forms of human rights violations and is not acceptable in a society based on respect for these rights. it is a modern form of slavery that must be addressed in its entirety - from sexual exploitation, forced labour, organ trafficking, forced begging, forced marriage, to inhumanities such as the forced recruitment of children into military structures and the trafficking of infants. europe must not be immune to these heinous acts, we must condemn them clearly and stand up to them with greater resolve. first, we must clear our own doorstep, where the filth is gathering. we are doing far too little to prevent the abovementioned acts against eu citizens, who also become victims of trafficking. i therefore agree that there is a need to strengthen cooperation between countries in the field of organised crime and to improve legislation to combat it more effectively. the refugee and migrant crisis is a multi-billion dollar business for human traffickers, and the more efficient we are at dealing with the crisis, the worse it will be for these traffickers. we need to extend our activities beyond the eu's borders, especially to the less developed countries where trafficking in human beings is most widespread.
in writing. ‒ this is the first report on the fight against trafficking in human beings in the european union's external relations and represents an important contribution to the efforts of the european union and the member states in this field. the report includes a comprehensive and detailed analysis of the reality of trafficking in human beings, including sexual exploitation and forced labour, as well as the links of trafficking in human beings with migration and financial aspects. i believe that the situation needs to be improved, as there is a huge gap between the legislation already in place and its implementation, including support and protection for victims and the prosecution of offenders. the fight against trafficking in human beings requires effective international cooperation and increased efforts at national level to address cross-border crime, including by increasing financial investigations. the report also calls on the european union and the member states to do more in the area of identifying and protecting victims, and also demands that the concepts of trafficking in human beings and smuggling of migrants be understood to be different. safe and legal ways of entering the european union should reduce the vulnerability of migrants and refugees and thus contribute to the prevention of trafficking in human beings. i therefore think that the report is a good one and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on combating trafficking in human beings in the eu's external relations. in the context of the fight against trafficking in human beings, i would like to draw attention to the trafficking of human organs, which is one of the ten largest illegal activities for profit. despite the lack of publicity, however, human trafficking is a serious problem in some countries, and it should not be ignored. slovenia is primarily a transit country for such criminal activities, which means that law enforcement authorities have a greater responsibility in detecting the activities of criminal groups. the amber alert, signed by the highest number of meps in the european parliament in the last five years, was sent to the president, prime minister and minister of the interior to connect slovenia to the european child rescue alert and missing children police network, but i have not received a response to date, which does not give me optimism that the slovenian government is aware of the seriousness of the problem. in the eu, 250,000 children go missing every year, many of them victims of organ trafficking.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on combating trafficking in human beings in the eu's external relations. the report recognizes human trafficking as a modern form of slavery, a serious crime that is on the rise. it defines the different forms of exploitation and gives victims rights. it also stresses, inter alia, the need to combat corruption, which could contribute to trafficking in human beings, and calls in this regard for the provision of appropriate training for public sector officials. cooperation between regional and international levels is important in the fight against trafficking in human beings. there is a need for enhanced coordination and systematic exchange of information to investigate and combat transnational trafficking in human beings, and for increased financial and technical assistance, together with capacity building at government and law enforcement levels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the fight against trafficking in human beings in the eu’s external relations. the report denounces and explicitly rejects trafficking in human beings, which represents a growing industry of human suffering, affecting all societies and economies in a profound and enduring manner. the report equally underlines the fact that trafficking in human beings is a modern kind of slavery, and a serious crime, which constitutes one of the worst forms of human rights violations that cannot be accepted in societies that are based on the respect for human rights including gender equality. i voted in favour because i believe that trafficking in human beings has to be understood in a holistic manner, focusing not only on sexual exploitation, but also on forced labour, organ trafficking, forced begging, forced marriages, child soldiers and the trafficking of babies.
in writing. ‒ the report identifies human trafficking as a modern form of slavery and warns that it is a serious crime that has recently been on the rise. the latest global slavery index estimates that 35.8 million people worldwide are trapped in modern slavery. trafficking in human beings and smuggling of human beings are unfortunately not a transient phenomenon and could become more acute in the coming years, as conflict hotspots, repressive regimes and economic conditions in the world create a favourable environment for the criminal activities of traffickers and smugglers. i agree that the inadequate implementation of the legal framework for trafficking in human beings at national level and the absence of an appropriate legal framework in third countries is one of the most important obstacles to combating trafficking in human beings. therefore, enhanced cooperation between member states, europol and the countries of origin and transit of victims of trafficking in human beings is necessary in the fight against trafficking networks. in line with this, i supported the report on combating trafficking in human beings in the eu's external relations.
thus, a multiannual financial plan can also be a very risky instrument, especially if it is not sufficiently flexible and if it does not offer sufficient possibilities for simple procedures. of course, it is important to stress that europe has changed considerably in recent years, that the ratio of revenue to expenditure is also changing and that it is also important to be aware of the events that will increase budget expenditure. the wave of refugees has certainly not stopped, and we can expect perhaps an even higher wave of this issue in the coming years. new fronts are opening up, which will be further complicated by brexit. some reforms that have been implemented have also apparently not been sufficiently successful. the unemployment rate is rising in some places, and of course it is falling in others. but i think they're right, my colleagues, that radical reforms are needed. and some of the spending, which is also in the area of sanctions against russia, which will increase spending in the area of agriculture. of course, the revenue side must also be given special attention.
so, according to available data, corporate tax avoidance is estimated to cost the european union budget over €70 billion every year (a figure that is likely to be even higher in reality), which is more than five times what the eu spent on dealing with the refugee crisis from 2015 to early 2016. and so, for all the expenses that we have associated with the problems that the european union is facing, we obviously don't want to take care of the so-called revenue side. and of course, all of these cases were also brought to light by so-called whistleblowers, including journalists, and without them, we would not have known the cases we are talking about today. i therefore think it is absolutely necessary to protect their position, of course, and not to judge and thus actually reward those who cause these tax holes and, of course, the problem on the revenue side of the european budget.
congratulations from me, too. the rapporteurs, who, as part of the taxe committee's work, have also prepared this report in cooperation with the commission, have drawn attention to a key problem in today's society. today, we have seen through the panama papers, through luxleaks, how individuals or corporations are falsely accumulating large sums of money, and on the other hand, the lack of these funds both in the budgets of the states, as well as many people who have been left without a real future, feel oppressed. so i think it's imperative that we continue this work to actually get to a society where people feel more equal and also more just to live. but certainly those who disclose such documents need protection, because punishing such people is not right and should not happen in the future.
exactly one hundred years ago, the battle of the somme began, in which 60,000 british, german and french men died on the first day of fighting. they fell because of a policy that saw war as a continuation of politics. this is only a warning in times when many are again betting on nationalist and protectionist solutions. today we have the european union, a project of peace and security. this includes joint responses to common challenges. these include the establishment of a common border and coast guard, which will effectively protect us from external shocks so that we can live in freedom and peace within the union. my colleague esteban gonzález pons said about this a few months ago that we want a house with doors, not without them. the european border and coast guard will be that door, but it will be open to all who want the union to do well and closed to all who want to destabilise it. the agreement between the european parliament and the council should be implemented in full as soon as possible.
so, the coast guard is not, and certainly cannot be, a miracle cure for all the problems that the european union is facing in dealing with the refugee crisis, and i hope, of course, that the commission has looked at all the impact assessments on this solution. so that he is aware of the importance of creating a link and cooperation between the member states in implementing this instrument, because we know that europe and the member states sometimes have difficulties in implementing what the commission adopts. and i think that, of course, there are a number of issues that arise here, from the delimitation of responsibilities between the coastguard and the authorities of the member states, to, of course, the question of, of course, responsibility, because the notion of shared responsibility is absolutely problematic. either the concept of responsibility is clearly defined or it is not.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteur, and of course the european commission, which has drawn up this document, this directive on cybersecurity, together with you. today in this parliament we have spoken a lot about security in a wide variety of areas and, of course, we must also be aware of the importance of cybersecurity today, in addition to military, energy and food security. the world is changing, technologies are changing, and we are also going to see very big developments in the future in the very areas of these technologies that we are talking about needing protection. of course, it is necessary to have in mind both the competence of the state on the one hand, but if anything, this area is the one around which ... that area that knows no boundaries, these boundaries are invisible and therefore such a joint action is also needed. the common energy union is... the digital union is our big opportunity. we'll use it if we can secure this area well.
we've already discussed the youth initiative in this session. the president of the commission spoke about the results in the field of the efsi. today we are talking about horizon 2020, we are talking about cohesion funds. so we are talking about the tools that we have at our disposal to, on the one hand, address poverty, the backwardness in europe, and on the other hand, also want to make a development breakthrough in those places where europe has great opportunities. smart specialisation is now being implemented in a way that is similar to the principles that horizon is implementing, and when we look at these results and when we see that the old members are consuming 95% of horizon, i see that we have a problem in this area. i therefore ask the commission, mr commissioner, to help the new member states in an organised way so that they can activate cohesion policy as well as horizon, otherwise this principle of solidarity will not be applied in europe and we will have great problems in the future.
we all seek constructive dialogue and solutions. the resolution we have to pass tomorrow is the best compromise we can make. we need, as you said, very clear priorities. we have tremendous challenges for the economy, jobs, economic growth are key. it is also crucial to rebuild trust. we must win the hearts of our citizens today. that's why we need good social security. we must stop the trend towards a very dangerous isolation and closure of borders. and national governments must take responsibility for all of europe. we must ensure the safety of our people and fight against the threats of nationalist and dangerous far-right rhetoric. brexit is not a good thing for the future, but i'm glad that most europeans today would not follow that example. in the last survey, slovenians said that 14 years of membership had a positive impact on our country. and i want us to strengthen that belief with good alliances.
one of the reasons why some citizens are disappointed in the european union is that they expect more from us because we are together in the european union. we must exercise our political will in such a way that citizens see the results of cooperation in action. but i have to mention something that is not just a sectoral issue that is of growing concern to me and has long been underestimated as a collective challenge - i mean health. health indicators generally deteriorate, especially when it comes to cancer, diabetes and other chronic diseases. our health reflects synthetically everything we've done wrong in the past, both personally and collectively. and we will not build more europe with less health. health is not only one of the most important values of european citizens, it is also a prerequisite for a healthy society and a thriving economy. healthy people will be better able to develop their potential, create and innovate, which is the key driver of job creation and economic growth. therefore, the role of the european union and the member states in overcoming public health challenges should also be understood in terms of convergence of health outcomes. we need to tackle the huge disparities in the health of citizens between member states with an ambitious interpretation of the lisbon treaty. i believe that the commission should start preparing incentives for the pursuit and convergence of health objectives, similar to the european semester. health must become the foundation and priority if we are to be competitive.
in writing. the resolution on cooperation between the european parliament and the european commission sets out the priorities for the commission's work in 2017. i am therefore surprised at the complete lack of ambition of the document in the area of demographic change and intergenerational cooperation. these are areas that the resolution barely mentions. it is incomprehensible and unacceptable that, at a time when europe is facing major demographic changes, the european institutions are not prepared to pay more attention to the ageing of the population and to take measures that will help ensure and preserve the basic dignity of older generations. we still lack a strategy to respond to demographic change at the level of europe, or the european union. this is despite experts warning that without appropriate policies on intergenerational cooperation, we can expect a constant conflict between the young and the old. while support is growing at the united nations level for an international instrument aimed at protecting the basic human rights of older people, the european union has not yet seen the need. in view of the above, i believe that the institutions of the european union are lagging behind in taking the necessary action in the field of demographic change. the resolution on the work of the european commission for 2017 in the field of protection of the rights of older persons and intergenerational cooperation should pay attention to the problem of strategic relevance.
in writing. ‒ i support the said protocol to the eu-azerbaijan agreement. the aim of the protocol is to establish financial and technical rules to enable azerbaijan to participate in certain european union programmes open to third countries. the gradual opening-up of certain eu programmes to neighbouring countries started as early as 2006 under the european neighbourhood policy. the approach was further deepened in 2011 by its inclusion in the eastern partnership framework, of which azerbaijan is a part, to enhance bilateral cooperation. the eu-azerbaijan partnership and cooperation agreement entered into force on 1 july 1999 and the partners have been negotiating new improved contractual relations since 2010, in line with the objectives of the eastern partnership, which were suspended in 2013. the eu-azerbaijan relations are also defined by cooperation in the energy field, which in my view should be further strengthened.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation as the conclusion of the protocol will allow for a gradual opening-up and enhanced participation in certain union programmes for azerbaijan. this provides an opportunity to foster further cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific links, to strengthen people-to-people contacts and to enhance sectoral cooperation. the protocol also lays down the financial and technical rules enabling azerbaijan to participate in certain european union programmes addressed to the enp countries. currently, the situation with azerbaijan is changing for the better, as evidenced by the release of several human rights activists, and this should be used for new joint projects and cooperation. the committee on foreign affairs also gave a favourable opinion in favour of the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ the cooperation protocol between the european union and azerbaijan aims to establish financial and technical rules to enable azerbaijan to participate in certain european union programmes open to third countries. the specific conditions for the participation of azerbaijan in each programme will be laid down in an agreement between the european commission and the competent authorities of azerbaijan. the gradual opening-up of certain european union programmes to neighbourhood countries was already proposed by the european commission in 2006 and identified as one of the components of the european neighbourhood policy. the council endorsed this approach in 2007 and gave the commission guidance for negotiating a framework agreement with partner countries that will facilitate such cooperation. the approach was re-approved in the 2011 european neighbourhood policy review and is also one of the elements of the eastern partnership to enhance bilateral cooperation. we greens welcome this type of cooperation, but at the same time we want the european union's programmes to be transparent and open. human rights, the rule of law and democracy should remain the foundations on which the cooperation of both partners will be built. i think that the recommendation is generally a good one, and i supported it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the framework agreement between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan on the general principles for the participation of the republic of azerbaijan in union programmes. the protocol will establish financial and technical rules to enable azerbaijan to participate in european union programmes open to third countries. i support the gradual opening up of certain union programmes to neighbouring countries, as the commission presented back in 2006. however, relations with neighbouring countries and third world countries must be based on democracy, human rights and the rule of law. the european union must not deviate from this.
in writing. ‒ the draft recommendation addresses the participation of the republic of azerbaijan in union programmes. the protocol contains the framework agreement between the eu and the republic of azerbaijan on the general principles for the participation of the republic of azerbaijan in union programmes and includes the standard provisions contained in such protocols for the european neighbourhood policy countries. the conclusion of the said protocol will allow for the gradual opening up or enhanced participation in certain union programmes for the republic of azerbaijan, thus encouraging further strengthening of cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific links. in addition, people-to-people contacts and sectoral cooperation between the union and the republic of azerbaijan will be significantly enhanced. for the above reasons, i supported the recommendation for the conclusion of a framework agreement between the eu and the republic of azerbaijan on the general principles for the participation of the republic of azerbaijan in union programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of azerbaijan, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan on the general principles for the participation of the republic of azerbaijan in union programmes. the objective of the protocol is to lay down financial and technical rules enabling azerbaijan to participate in certain european union programmes open to third countries. the specific terms and conditions for the participation of azerbaijan in each particular programme will be then determined in agreement between the commission and the competent authorities in azerbaijan. azerbaijan is also an important energy partner for the eu but the importance of eu-azerbaijan relations is not limited to energy security and the relevance of this partnership should be considered in the context of all aspects of cooperation envisaged in the framework of eastern partnership. i am in favour of this agreement because it aims to promote cooperation and foster people-to-people contacts, which should be beneficial for the society.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of azerbaijan, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan on the general principles for the participation of the republic of azerbaijan in union programmes. the objective of the protocol is to establish financial and technical rules to enable azerbaijan to participate in certain european union programmes open to third countries. azerbaijan is also an important energy partner of the eu, among other things. i agree that the rule of law, human rights and democracy are key principles on which the eu's relations with third countries must be based. in this respect, the framework agreement in question seeks to promote cooperation within sectors and to foster people-to-people contacts.
in writing. ‒ i supported the above-mentioned amending budget without reservations. the amendment to the current budget includes a surplus of eur 1,349 million from the 2015 budget year, which consequently reduces the contribution of the member states to the current eu budget by the same amount. i expect member states to pay this surplus into the eu trust fund for the prevention of the refugee crisis, to which they have committed themselves for some time. in addition, the member states contributed only eur 82 million to the trust fund for africa and eur 69 million to the madad trust fund for the syrian crisis until this spring, while the union contribution was eur 1,8 billion and more than eur 500 million. in subsequent cases of surpluses in the eu budget, the latter should be used for the financial needs of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the council position on the proposal for an amendment of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2016: incorporation of the surplus from the financial year 2015. this report confirms the commission's proposal to include a surplus of eur 1 349 million from last year's budget in this year's budget. this will reduce the member states' contribution in 2016 by the same amount. i hope that member states will take advantage of this and use these funds to fulfil their commitments in relation to the refugee crisis. i agree that the surplus in the union budget should be allocated to the financial needs of the eu, as there is a lack of money for payments.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the examination of draft amending budget no 2/2016 concerning the surplus for the financial year 2015. the total amount of the surplus resulting from the implementation of the 2015 budget will be transferred to the 2016 budget. this will benefit the eu member states, as the national gni contributions of the member states to the eu budget will be reduced accordingly in relation to the 2015 surplus. the report also calls on the member states to take this opportunity to honour their commitments in relation to the refugee crisis and to align the union contribution to the two dedicated union trust funds. at the same time, the eu budget should be able to reuse at any time surpluses resulting from budgetary implementation failures or fines in order to meet its financing needs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 2/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016: entering the surplus of the financial year 2015. the draft amending budget no 2/2016 aims to enter in the 2016 budget the surplus from the 2015 financial year, amounting to eur 1 349 million. i voted in favour because i am of the opinion that the union budget should be enabled to reuse any surplus resulting from under-implementation of appropriations or from fines imposed on companies for breaching union competition law in order to deal with its financing needs, especially in the context of payment shortages.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the council position on the draft amending budget of the european union no 2/2016 for the financial year 2016: inclusion of the surplus from the financial year 2015. the objective of the draft amending budget no 2/2016 is to include in the 2016 budget the surplus of eur 1,349 million from the 2015 budget year. the report notes, inter alia, that the adoption of draft amending budget no 2/2016 will reduce the member states' contribution to the union budget on the basis of gni by eur 1,349 million in 2016 and calls on the member states to take this opportunity to implement their commitments in relation to the refugee crisis by contributing to the union trust fund the amount of the union contribution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the council position on the proposal for a directive on measures to ensure a high common level of security of network and information systems in the eu. the interinstitutional negotiations have in fact led to a compromise which should be supported. the proposal for a directive concerns specific operators, protects existing investments in network and information security and seeks to avoid as far as possible duplication of institutional structures and obligations imposed on market participants. the main objective of the proposal for a directive is to impose obligations on public administrations and market participants, with a particular focus on market participants providing services in the energy, transport, health and financial market infrastructure sectors. the public authorities are responsible for ensuring the sound management of their own networks and information systems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on council measures to ensure a high common level of security of network and information systems across the union. the proposal introduces obligations for member states on network and information security (nis) in a bid to create a level playing field and close existing legislative gaps. in accordance with the recommendation of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, parliament adopted the council's position without amendments. i see the consensus in adopting the recommendation in the fact that the proposed directive is a well-defined direction towards a higher level of security of network and information systems in the european union.
in writing. ‒ the internet has made it possible to use information systems and services networks widely. in the internal market, these services play a key role in enabling the cross-border movement of goods, services and people. the 2012 public opinion survey showed that as many as 38% of internet users in the european union are concerned about the security of online payments. the proposal requires member states to establish a minimum level of national capabilities, including strategies for the security of network and information systems. at the same time, eu member states should also cooperate in the exchange of information, threats and good practices. the commission proposal has been criticised for containing a number of regulatory standards and for breaching the principle of subsidiarity. but the greens have made good progress in the negotiations on limiting its scope to critical infrastructure only and also on allowing as much flexibility as possible to member states in implementing the directive with existing structures. we also agreed that companies will be required to have security plans and will be required to report on events in network and information systems. i believe that the directive is a good start in this area, but its short-term added value for preventing cyber-attacks is questionable. i voted in favour of the recommendation despite some shortcomings.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on measures to ensure a high common level of security of network and information systems in the union. this directive will achieve a higher overall level of network and information security, leading to improved security of the internet and of the private networks and information systems that support the functioning of our society and economy. with greater willingness on the part of member states and better cooperation between them, we will achieve this.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a directive on measures to ensure a high common level of security of network and information systems in the union was supported in plenary without a vote. the directive lays down measures to improve the security of network and information systems against cyber-attacks, for which national borders do not represent any obstacle. this is crucial given the current fragmented regulatory frameworks, which indicate different levels of preparedness in individual member states of the union. the newly adopted directive will harmonise these safety standards, thus contributing to a better safety of interconnected infrastructures. the rules of the directive also provide, inter alia, for the establishment of a minimum level of protection for network and information systems and the establishment of a strategic cooperation group to exchange information and provide assistance to eu member states in the fight against cyberattacks.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council concerning measures for a high common level of security of network and information systems across the union. the aim of the proposed directive is to ensure a high common level of network and information security, which means improving the security of the internet and the private networks and information systems underpinning the functioning of our societies and economies. this will be achieved by requiring the member states to increase their preparedness and improve their cooperation with each other, and by requiring operators of critical infrastructures as well as public administrations to adopt appropriate steps to manage security risks and report serious incidents to the national competent authorities. i voted in favour because i believe that stepping up the fight against cybercrime and building an international cybersecurity policy for the eu is of crucial importance.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on measures to ensure a high common level of security of network and information systems in the union. the proposal for a directive introduces additional obligations on the security of network and information networks with a view to creating a level playing field and closing existing legislative gaps.
in writing. ‒ the proposed report was very much welcomed by all. energy efficiency is the best answer to the key challenges ahead. on the one hand, it is reducing climate change, and on the other, it is reducing europe's energy dependence on third countries. i am very pleased that in these 20 years, when europe has been working intensively on this issue, the pluses at a, which indicate the energy efficiency of appliances, have actually been exhausted. this shows that we are moving in the right direction, but it also calls for changes to make such labelling more accurate or clearer for consumers. the report adopted changes, inter alia, the energy efficiency labelling scale for household appliances to a more transparent scale from a to g. it will replace the current scale, which is already becoming obscure for the consumer (a+, a++, a+++) due to the large number of pluses. these changes are expected to take place within five years. i support the proposed amendments, as they give us the opportunity to make progress on the one hand and effective control over the implementation of these measures on the other. indeed, in the past, the accuracy of the information on the labels of these products has been questioned on several occasions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i think it is important for us as consumers to know the energy efficiency of each product. in this way, the consumer's interests are put first, which is reflected in particular in the fact that he can buy more safely, more transparently and more wisely. energy labelling also leads to fairer competition on the market, as price is no longer the first condition for buying a product, as people are increasingly aware of the energy consumption and there is one more mechanism for prosecuting those responsible.
in writing. ‒ energy labelling has been around since its inception, giving citizens a deeper understanding of the environmental impact of products and their life cycle. the assessment of directive 2010/30/ec has revealed a number of shortcomings which, if addressed appropriately, could lead to significant additional energy savings. the purpose of the audit is to facilitate the integration of ict developments that are on the horizon. the report welcomes the european commission's objectives, including the choice of a regulation as the best legal instrument to prevent divergent transposition in the member states. it intends to combine several balances, such as ensuring continuity while promoting development among citizens, industry, and other stakeholders, as well as between firm pragmatism and encouraged ambition and between a focus on technology and social awareness. the revision aims to simplify energy efficiency labelling to make it more understandable for consumers. it is particularly important that the simple energy efficiency labelling ag is maintained and that consumers can return and receive a refund if it is proven that the appliance does not comply with the energy efficiency requirements. unfortunately, for the largest energy consumers, the confusing plus sign remains until 2030. on the basis of the above, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for energy-efficiency labelling and repealing the directive. a while ago, we were shocked by the emissions scandal that led to a decline in public confidence. therefore, trust must be restored. i support the commission's desire to ensure continuity while promoting development: among citizens, industry and other stakeholders, and with a focus on technology and social awareness. the energy labelling will enable citizens to compare products on their energy efficiency and to make cost-effective and environmentally-conscious purchasing decisions.
in writing. ‒ i did not vote on the proposal for a regulation establishing a framework for energy labelling. i expect the motion to be referred back to the committee responsible for further discussion of the points on which we were unable to reach agreement in plenary. the eu energy label creates added value and helps consumers to find more energy-efficient products. we are able to find solutions on how to change energy efficiency labelling in the future, but we have not yet fully achieved this with this proposal for a regulation. the current energy labelling system is outdated. for household appliances, the rapid technological progress would require a revision of the standard scale from a to g. stricter requirements would encourage manufacturers to further improve the energy efficiency of their products. i regret that most members support the introduction of a mandatory energy efficiency label in visual advertising, which will make advertising more expensive and more complex, and will not add any value to consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council setting a framework for energy efficiency labelling and repealing directive 2010/30/eu. energy labelling is beneficial to the environment, as it allows customers to compare products in terms of their energy efficiency and to take cost-effective and environmentally conscious purchasing decisions. the proposal replaces the current energy labelling framework and introduces a mechanism for the rescaling of energy efficiency classes. the proposal also provides for a product database and lays out the obligations of the economic operators involved. i voted in favour because i believe that a regulation is the best legal instrument to avoid different transpositions in the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for energy-efficiency labelling and repealing directive 2010/30/eu. energy efficiency is an essential element of the european union's 2030 climate and energy policy framework and is crucial for reducing energy demand and limiting greenhouse gas emissions. energy labelling is environmentally friendly, as it allows customers to compare products with regard to their energy efficiency and to make cost-effective and environmentally-conscious purchasing decisions. the commission proposal thus replaces the current energy labelling framework and establishes a mechanism for the re-evaluation of energy efficiency classes. it also provides for a product database and lays down the obligations of the participating economic operators.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposed regulation on the establishment of a european border and coast guard. the schengen area is one of the greatest and most visible achievements of european integration. but the refugee and migration crisis and the threat posed to this achievement have put this at risk, as many countries have made use of the possibility of border controls at their own borders, the eu's internal borders. in order to preserve the so-called schengen, the protection of the eu's external borders needs to be strengthened and in my view the establishment of a european border and coast guard is the right answer to this. the commission presented this proposal last december, and i think it should have been done earlier. but better late than never. the eu is also responding to criticism that the eu has failed to address the migrant crisis. however, it should be noted that the proposal respects the sovereignty of the member states in border protection, since it provides that the member state concerned must agree with the newly established agency on the operational plan and also issue instructions itself. in the case of return to the country of origin, the objective of the agency is to assist member states in the practical organisation of return operations, without prejudice to the content of return decisions issued by member states.
in writing. ‒ the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union, known as frontex, became operational on 1 may 2005. the basic idea behind frontex was to improve the integrated management of the external borders and the implementation of common rules to promote, coordinate and develop the concept of european border management. parliament has already discussed the future development of frontex on several occasions, including when drafting a resolution on the special report of the european ombudsman on an own-initiative inquiry into frontex. in this resolution, it proposes that provisions on an individual complaints mechanism be included in the review of frontex's mandate, which i regard as positive. on the other hand, some provisions of fundamental rights have disappeared. what bothers me most about the current report is that the agency would have the power to send a coast guard to a member state of the european union without its consent if the european commission considered that that member state had not effectively addressed the shortcomings at the external border of the european union. in addition, the report is weak in the area of fundamental rights and in the area of rescue. i have therefore decided to vote against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european border and coast guard and repealing the regulation. the creation of a european border and coast guard will improve the security of our external borders. the migration and refugee crisis has made us realise that our external borders are weak and that we need to modernise the regulatory framework. the european border and coast guard will link the eu external border agency frontex more closely with national authorities, thus enhancing the protection of the european union's external border. this is the only way to restore the schengen system without internal borders.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a regulation establishing a european border and coast guard. the establishment of a european border and coast guard would ensure better management and protection at the eu's external borders. they could address migration challenges and potential future threats more effectively, thereby contributing to tackling serious crime with a cross-border dimension. a high level of internal security in the union would be ensured, while maintaining the free movement of persons. the european border and coast guard would focus its activities on developing an operational strategy for european integrated border management and assisting in its implementation in all relevant member states of the union. as a preventive measure, the proposal for a regulation is accompanied by a vulnerability assessment aimed at assessing the eu member states' capacity and preparedness to face upcoming challenges, including current and future threats and pressures at the union's external borders.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european border and coast guard and repealing regulation (ec) no 2007/2004, regulation (ec) no 863/2007 and council decision 2005/267/ec. the european border and coast guard will play a greater role than today’s frontex agency in returning migrants to their country of origin, but only where executing decisions have already been taken by national authorities. even though national authorities will still manage their borders on a day-to-day basis if their eu external borders are under pressure, they will be able to seek help from the european border and coast guard agency (ebcg), to rapidly deploy pooled border guard teams to those borders. i voted in favour because i am of the opinion that the regulation will ensure that the eu external borders are safer and better managed.
in writing. ‒ the european union is a project of peace and security based on common responses to common challenges. these include the establishment of a common border and coast guard, which will effectively protect us from external shocks so that we can live in freedom and peace within the union. in doing so, the union assumes a significant share of the co-responsibility for the security of its citizens. we want a house with doors, not without them. the european border and coast guard will be that door, but it will be open to all who want the union to do well and closed to all who want to destabilise it. in line with the above, i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european border and coast guard and repealing regulation (ec) no 2007/2004, regulation (ec) no 863/2007 and council decision 2005/267/ec.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed amendment to the regulation establishing the european maritime safety agency, which is a consequence of the establishment of the european border and coast guard agency. the proposal does not contain any substantive changes and the european parliament's position is therefore the same as that of the commission. as a result, i have no qualms about opposing it myself.
in writing. ‒ the report on the establishment of the european maritime safety agency supports the european commission's proposal and highlights the need to ensure that article 2b of the european maritime safety agency regulation is substantially consistent with the already agreed article 52 of the european border and coast guard act. the european maritime safety agency's main task is to ensure the safety of vessels, including offshore oil and gas platforms. to this end, the european maritime safety agency is responsible for several satellite navigation programmes that provide it with the necessary information. i voted in favour of the report because i agree with it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the regulation establishing the european maritime safety agency. the maritime safety agency was established to provide technical and other assistance to the institutions of the european union and the member states in the preparation and implementation of eu legislation on maritime safety, pollution from shipping and maritime security. i support the amendment of the regulation to increase the exchange of information and cooperation in the field of coast guard functions and emerging maritime risks.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to develop european cooperation in the field of coastguard by developing different forms of cooperation between the european border and coast guard, the european maritime safety agency and the european fisheries control agency. since the amendment of the regulation establishing the european maritime safety agency would improve synergies between the said bodies, thus contributing to more cost-effective services in the field of coast guard enforcement, i supported the proposal for a regulation. the amendment of the regulation establishing the european maritime safety agency would significantly improve and strengthen the union's surveillance capabilities at the eu's external maritime borders. one of the objectives is also to strengthen capacity at national and union level by developing guidelines, recommendations and best practices, as well as by supporting training and staff exchange in order to improve the exchange of information and cooperation in the field of coast guard functions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1406/2002 establishing a european maritime safety agency. the agency shall, in cooperation with the european border and coast guard agency and the european fisheries control agency, support national authorities carrying out coastguard functions at national and union level, and where appropriate at international level. i voted in favour because i strongly believe that cooperation and coordination between the relevant eu agencies, in order to enhance synergies between their respective services, will allow them to provide more efficient and cost-effective multipurpose services to national authorities carrying out coastguard functions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1406/2002 establishing a european maritime safety agency. the agency shall, in cooperation with the european border and coast guard agency and the european fisheries control agency, support national authorities carrying out coast guard functions at national and union level and, where appropriate, at international level, by providing surveillance and communication services based on state-of-the-art technology and by enhancing the exchange of information and cooperation on coast guard functions and emerging maritime risks.
in writing. ‒ i also supported this report, which is also a consequence of the establishment of the european border and coast guard agency. the proposal aims to enable the three european agencies, which also deal with maritime accidents, to coordinate their operations at sea and to exchange information useful for their work. the european fisheries control agency, the european maritime safety agency and the european border and coast guard agency should be able to cooperate and share capacities and exchange information on controls to enhance safety and security at sea. in the context of this objective, the commission proposes to add an article on cooperation in the field of coast guard functions to the mandate of the european fisheries control agency. the same text is proposed for the mandate of the european maritime safety agency and the european border and coast guard agency, which i mentioned earlier. the change of mandate for the three agencies requires a legal instrument to strengthen cooperation between them and with national authorities carrying out coast guard tasks.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report amending council regulation no 768/2005 establishing a community fisheries control agency. i am confident that the changes to the agency's remit will bring progress in cooperation with other agencies, in particular the european maritime safety agency and the european border and coastguard agency. the agency's responsibilities are now better defined, and therefore better cooperation and exchange of information in the field of coast guard functions can be expected, as well as easier planning, implementation of multi-purpose activities, sharing of resources and other capabilities, in agreement with the competent authorities of the member states concerned. like other members, i had no particular reservations about adopting the report, since it reflects the position of our group.
in writing. ‒ national authorities carrying out coast guard tasks are responsible for a large number of tasks in very diverse areas such as security, protection, rescue at sea, border control, customs control, environmental protection and general law enforcement. today, there are more than 300 such bodies in the european union. the purpose of the proposal is to enable the three european agencies, namely the european fisheries control agency, the european maritime safety agency and the european border and coast guard agency, to cooperate and share capabilities and exchange information on surveillance for better safety and security at sea. the report stresses that the coast guard function should be at the european union level only, even though the capacities are actually at national level. for all these reasons, the report proposes that the european commission's proposal be adopted under the simplified procedure in accordance with rule 50 of parliament's rules of procedure. i think the report on the establishment of a community fisheries control agency is a good one, which is why i supported it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the council regulation establishing a community fisheries control agency. the sheer volume of work and the large number of different structures cooperating with each other in the areas of security, protection, rescue at sea, border control, environmental protection mean that this cooperation is slow and often lacks information on competences and powers. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal to add cooperation in the field of coast guard functions to the mandate of the european fisheries control agency.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal to amend the regulation establishing the community fisheries control agency. the proposal aims to provide support to national authorities in the exercise of the protective function of the coastguard at national and european level, enabling cooperation between the three european agencies (the european fisheries control agency, the european maritime safety agency and the newly established european border and coast guard). the three agencies will be able to pool their operational capabilities and exchange surveillance information with a view to improving maritime safety and security. the proposed amendment sets out the tasks of the community fisheries control agency, the aim of which is to support national authorities in the exercise of their coast guard functions. these tasks are to exchange information and set up systems for the exchange of information between all three agencies, to provide surveillance and communication services using state-of-the-art technology, to build capacity at eu and national level, and to provide training and exchange of staff. this would allow multi-dimensional operations to be planned and executed under specific conditions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 768/2005 establishing a community fisheries control agency. the aim of the proposal is to enable the three european agencies whose duties include dealing with disasters at sea to coordinate their operations at sea and share information pertaining to their activities. the european fisheries control agency, the european maritime safety agency and the european border and coast guard agency must be able to cooperate by pooling their operational capacities and sharing surveillance information in order to enhance maritime safety and security. i voted in favour because i believe that cooperation arrangements between three european agencies are essential given the current situation with regard to migration.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 768/2005 establishing a community fisheries control agency. national authorities carrying out coast guard tasks are responsible for a large number of tasks in very diverse areas such as security, protection, rescue at sea, border control, customs control, environmental protection and general law enforcement. however, the current system of cooperation is slow and flawed. the aim of this proposal is thus to strengthen the capacity to respond rapidly to maritime threats and risks in the european union, in particular through better cooperation between european agencies as well as with all relevant civil and military actors. cooperation will avoid duplication of effort by ensuring that actors, in particular european agencies, work in a coordinated and efficient manner and develop synergies.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed report aimed at increasing the independence of the olaf supervisory committee secretariat. the amendment ensures that the committee operates more efficiently by moving it organisationally within the european commission, outside olaf. in the past, the european parliament has repeatedly stressed the need for the secretariat of the supervisory committee to be more independent. the proposed amendment is in line with our wishes and i have no hesitation in supporting it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the regulation on the secretariat of the supervisory committee of the european anti-fraud office (olaf). it is our duty to ensure that european citizens get the best use of their money, while at the same time ensuring that we fight fraud effectively. to achieve this, we need a strong european anti-fraud office (olaf) and a strengthened supervisory board to ensure independent oversight of olaf's activities. only then will we be able to establish a well-functioning mechanism of system and balance, something we have not seen in recent years. for all these reasons, i support the new proposed regulation which will make the secretariat of the supervisory board part of the commission rather than olaf. i believe that this will increase the independence of the supervisory board secretariat and thus create a working environment in which the supervisory board can fully fulfil its purpose.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal to amend the regulation on the european anti-fraud office, the main objective of which is to add further guarantees to the independence of the supervisory board secretariat. the amendment is intended to facilitate certain organisational and budgetary aspects, without affecting the independent functioning of the secretariat. the head of secretariat will be responsible for the management and evaluation of his staff, and his assessment will be based on the report of the supervisory committee. the current appropriations for the budget and staff of the secretariat will also remain unaffected. the secretariat of the supervisory board will be kept in the building that is the current seat of the european anti-fraud office, thus safeguarding the independence of the supervisory board and the office, while facilitating contacts between them. furthermore, the amendment of the regulation will not affect the access of the secretariat of the supervisory board to data such as those from the information system and the database of the european anti-fraud office.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 883/2013, as regards the secretariat of the supervisory committee of the european anti-fraud office (olaf). the aim of this proposal is to strengthen the independence of the olaf supervisory committee’s secretariat, thus providing for a more effective functioning of the supervisory committee. i voted in favour because i believe that in order to function independently and effectively, the supervisory committee requires an independent and adequately staffed secretariat.
in writing. ‒ the main purpose of the proposed amendment to regulation (eu, euratom) no 883/2013 is to supplement the guarantees of independence of the secretariat. the commission intends to integrate the secretariat of the supervisory board of the european anti-fraud office into the office for the administration and payment of individual entitlements (oap) from the date of application of the amended regulation. the merger will be purely administrative in nature, in order to simplify certain organisational and budgetary aspects. accession will not affect the independent functioning of the secretariat, nor will it change the number of staff or increase the budget. in line with the above, i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 883/2013 as regards the secretariat of the supervisory board of the european anti-fraud office (olaf).
in writing. ‒ the multiannual financial framework is the eu's main strategic framework, as it sets the direction for the union's development and also affects the daily lives of its citizens. i supported the report proposed, as it analyses in detail the implementation of the current financial framework and contains a number of suggestions for improving the planning of expenditure or the use of funds. the fact is that the international environment has changed dramatically since the 2014-2020 financial framework came into force and has a significant impact on the use of eu budgetary resources. the refugee crisis, terrorism, the russian embargo and the agricultural crisis, the financing of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), the high unemployment rate and the resulting social exclusion and, last but not least, brexit are just some of the events or situations that call for serious adjustments to the financial framework. the introduction of more flexible mechanisms is essential, as the ceilings of the mff have proved to be restrictive. if i limit myself to agriculture, i see that there is not much room for manoeuvre in the use of funds, since the funds are used up virtually year after year. more needs to be done to prevent the reduction of direct payments in the procurement of funds for intervention on agricultural markets, and the imminent abolition of sugar quotas, which could seriously affect the position of eu sugar beet growers, must also be borne in mind.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the preparation of the ex post revision of the mff 2014-2020: parliament's contribution before the submission of the commission's proposal. half a year on, the commission is still waiting with its proposal for the revision of the multiannual financial framework. it's probably one of the collateral casualties of the british referendum. the framework adopted in 2013 should be reviewed and adapted to the new political and economic realities, both in terms of the allocation of resources by sector and in terms of its size. security is also high on the political priority list and financial needs are high, given the scale of terrorism, as are financial needs for foreign policy to stabilise the situation in crisis countries.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the preparation of the ex post revision of the mff 2014-2020. a genuine mid-term review of the eu's multiannual financial framework is necessary if the union is to respond to the many challenges it faces today and to achieve its policy objectives. any budget surplus resulting from fines imposed on eu member states or from insufficient budget implementation should be made available to key issues such as today's response to the migration and refugee crisis. the eu budget is at the edge of its capacity. the built-in flexibility mechanism is not sufficient to meet the growing needs. additional resources are needed and the current ceiling needs to be adjusted and budgetary flexibility increased. the report also calls for simplifications to the operation of eu policies and the provisions of the multiannual financial framework, to ensure easier access to european funding for beneficiaries across europe. this requires concrete measures to prevent recurrence of payment crises in the future.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on ‘the preparation of the post-electoral revision of the mff 2014-2020: parliament’s input ahead of the commission’s proposal’. the report points out that the eu budget has to match the political and strategic priorities of the eu and ensure a balance between long-term priorities and new challenges. the report equally underlines the key role that the eu budget must play in achieving the jointly agreed europe 2020 strategy, which represents its main orientation and overarching priority. i believe that, due to new challenges that have arisen in the past two years, the mff requires rapid and thorough revision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the preparation of the ex post revision of the mff 2014-2020: parliament's contribution before the submission of the commission's proposal. never before has the eu faced so many crises in its neighbourhood and beyond, including the refugee crisis, natural disasters, security threats and armed conflicts, which threaten fundamental values and require solidarity and enhanced external action. the eu budget must be in line with the political and strategic priorities of the eu and balance long-term priorities with new challenges, and therefore the mff review needs to carry out a qualitative analysis and evaluate the performance of the mff in the light of its implementation, new economic circumstances and other new developments.
in writing. ‒ i supported the taxe 2 special committee report because i believe that the establishment of appropriate tax systems is necessary to achieve a fairer and more equal society. the taxe 2 committee was set up last december and continued the work of the taxe special committee, which was set up to highlight harmful tax systems and practices by legal entities at both european and international level, with the aim of combating tax evasion. the reasons for the creation of the taxe committee or taxe 2 are based on the findings of the international consortium of investigative journalists, i.e. the panama papers and the lux leaks. the discovery of these documents has shown the urgent need for the european union and its member states to combat tax evasion, tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning and to work towards enhancing cooperation and transparency in order to restore fair taxation. by making our tax systems fairer and ensuring that corporate income tax is paid where value is created, not just in the member states but everywhere in the world. through the panama papers and lux leaks, we've seen how individuals and corporations fraudulently derive profits that, given fair tax treatment, should be in the national budget and thus allocated to services for citizens.
in writing. ‒ the discovery of the panama papers and luxleaks, published by the international consortium of investigative journalists, has shown the urgent need for the european union and its member states to combat tax evasion, tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning. at the same time, member states must work to strengthen cooperation and transparency in order to restore fair taxation, by making our tax systems fairer and ensuring that corporate tax is paid where value is created, not just in member states but everywhere in the world. i welcome the report, which includes many ideas from the greens, such as the intention to go beyond tax reforms, which are currently somewhat weak, or the intention to move towards a common consolidated corporate tax base at european level. the report also calls for strong european protection for whistleblowers, who play a key role in exposing tax scandals. the need for a blacklist of european tax havens and sanctions against blacklisted countries is also highlighted. in view of the above, i consider the report on tax rulings and other measures of a similar nature or effect to be a good one and have therefore supported it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on taxation positions and other measures of a similar nature or with similar effect. the european union and the member states should work towards strengthening the fight against tax evasion and avoidance and enhancing cooperation and transparency. only then can we restore fair taxation, so that income tax is paid where value is created. i support the call for the member states and the commission to adopt additional legislative proposals on corporate tax avoidance, as member states still have sufficient room for manoeuvre to tighten the anti-abuse rules and thus prevent the erosion of the tax base.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on taxation and other measures of a similar nature or effect. tax affairs make it imperative for eu member states to fight against tax evasion and tax avoidance. we need more cooperation between eu member states to ensure adequate control and harmonisation of eu member states' tax systems. i welcome the initiative to establish a common list of non-cooperative union jurisdictions in the framework of the external strategy for effective taxation. at eu level, we need a proposal for a common consolidated corporate tax base that will provide a comprehensive solution to harmful tax practices in the union. the work of whistleblowers is crucial for the detection of tax evasion and tax avoidance scandals and therefore protection should be provided to them. concrete legislative measures on transfer pricing are necessary, as 70% of profit shifting is through transfer pricing. the commission should draw up a blacklist of tax havens. the report also recommends the introduction of a tax credit at eu level to ensure a one-off taxation of profits generated in the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect. the aim of this report is to step up to the plate on the fight against tax evasion and tax havens. the report sets clear demands for increased accountability, and effective deterrents in the form of markedly increased sanctions for tax havens, banks, tax advisors and companies. i voted in favour because i strongly believe that increased european and international cooperation on this hugely problematic issue is necessary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on taxation and other measures of a similar nature or having similar effect. the eu and its member states must urgently fight tax evasion, tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning and work to strengthen cooperation and transparency to restore fair taxation, by making our tax systems fairer and ensuring that corporate tax is paid where value is created, not just in the member states but everywhere in the world.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on strengthening synergies between the structural funds and horizon 2020. we are talking about the tools we have at our disposal to tackle poverty and disparities in development within europe on the one hand, and to make a breakthrough in the areas where europe has great potential on the other. there are large differences in the use of eu funds between countries. smart specialisation is now being implemented on similar principles to horizon 2020, but looking at the results of the latter, we can see that even the old eu member states are spending as much as 95% of the programme's resources. this indicates serious problems, as these differences, reflected in technological and innovation backwardness, further increase the gap between eu member states. i believe that the commission should pay more attention to helping new member states to activate the use of funds earmarked for innovation and technological development, also in combination with other structural and cohesion funds. it is clear that some countries with the processes themselves have great difficulty in using this money, and the solidarity principle that we are building in the eu does not work in this case. we need a comprehensive strategic approach by the countries and the activation of all available financial resources offered by the european union in the framework of individual projects.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy, in the context of the 2014-2020 funding, is the european union's main instrument to bring it closer to its citizens. it is thus an expression of european solidarity, with growth and prosperity increasing and economic, social and territorial disparities narrowing, which were exacerbated during the economic and financial crisis. the resolution stresses that the links between cohesion policy and other european union policies, including funding programmes, are strongly strengthened within the common strategic framework. in addition, the resolution also highlights that the implementation of all the essential parts of the horizon 2020 budget will be transferred to public-public and public-private partnerships, which will offer opportunities to optimise synergies with smart specialisation initiatives and programmes by developing annual work plans. the european commission is also invited to ensure a clear and coordinated approach with a view to the period after 2020, paying particular attention to administrative and audit procedures, proportionality and accountability. i believe that the resolution on the synergies between the structural funds and horizon 2020 is well-contained and i voted in favour of its adoption in plenary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on synergies for innovation: the european structural and investment funds, the horizon 2020 programme and other european innovation funds and eu programmes. we continue to need a strong cohesion policy that covers all regions, while reflecting european solidarity by increasing growth and prosperity and reducing economic, social and territorial disparities, which have been exacerbated by the economic crisis. cohesion policy must therefore be linked to other european union policies and to funding programmes and initiatives. these synergies must be established from an early stage in order to achieve their full purpose.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the synergies between the structural funds and horizon 2020 cohesion policy remains the eu's main instrument for reflecting european solidarity in the 2014-2020 financial framework, as it increases growth and prosperity and reduces economic, social and territorial disparities. cohesion policy is fully aligned with the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, and links between cohesion policy and other eu policies and initiatives, such as horizon 2020, have contributed to achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. in the case of horizon 2020, regions and eu member states must identify and create opportunities by raising awareness, providing information and participating in communication campaigns. the european fund for strategic investments should, however, complement and complement the european structural and investment funds and other eu programmes such as horizon 2020, as funding under horizon 2020 is insufficient and, consequently, projects that have been rated as excellent do not receive funding.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on synergies between structural funds and horizon 2020. the resolution underlines the fact that the synergies are built in right from the strategic planning stage, and therefore require, from the start, strategic choices and planning by the regions and member states in order to identify and generate opportunities. furthermore, the resolution notes that synergies with other policies and instruments must be further enhanced in order to maximise the impact of investments. furthermore, the resolution points out that there is not enough funding under horizon 2020 and that projects evaluated as being excellent do not receive funding. i voted in favour because i believe that alternative funding for such projects has to be unlocked.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on synergies for innovation: the european structural and investment funds, the horizon 2020 programme and other european innovation funds and eu programmes. cohesion policy in the 2014-2020 financial planning period remains the main instrument through which the eu is trying to get closer to its citizens. i believe that investing in the real sector is a successful approach, as it covers all regions and at the same time reflects european solidarity, as it increases growth and prosperity and reduces the economic, social and territorial disparities exacerbated by the economic and financial crisis. it is investment in innovation that has declined the most during the economic crisis, which is why horizon 2020 in combination with the european structural funds is so much more important today.
in writing. ‒ i supported the joint motion for a resolution. the commission's work programme for 2017 should cover all the issues and challenges facing europe and the rest of the world. in the light of the decision of british citizens, it is necessary to consider whether to persist in measures that member states refuse or are reluctant to adopt from a sovereign point of view. one such example is the european refugee allocation quotas, where the commission will have to seek certain adjustments. in the context of improving the social rights system, more attention should be paid to promoting child health care and also to reducing child poverty. i also look forward to measures to improve the quality of education, vocational training and the promotion of youth employment. in the field of the refugee crisis, concrete solutions need to be strengthened, and also take into account the historical, economic and other circumstances of the countries in dealing with the crisis and the integration of migrants. in any case, more needs to be done to establish lasting peace in crisis areas, to strengthen cooperation with transit and source countries, and to use all available policies and instruments to stabilise, rebuild and develop these countries. i would also like to highlight the problem of combating tax evasion, where we cannot simply stick to the principle. the commission is taking steps in the right direction, but these steps are too short. citizens are telling us that the time for fairy tales is over. let's listen to them and act!
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the commission's work programme for 2017, which i also call for more attention to be paid to health. health indicators generally deteriorate, especially when it comes to cancer, diabetes and other chronic diseases. we will not build more europe with less health. health is not only one of the most important values of european citizens, it is also a prerequisite for a healthy society and a thriving economy. healthy people are more likely to develop their potential, to create and innovate, which is a key driver of new jobs and economic growth. the role of the european union and the member states in overcoming public health challenges should also be understood in terms of convergence of health outcomes, and i therefore believe that the commission should start to develop incentives for the pursuit and convergence of health objectives, similar to the european semester.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the strategic priorities in the commission's 2017 work programme. the european union is facing many challenges. it has not yet recovered from the economic and financial crisis, which is particularly evident in the high level of youth unemployment, while it is also facing various shocks in its neighbourhood, which have also led to the migrant and refugee crisis. if we are to deal effectively with all crises, i need a united and strongly connected european union, with the european commission, the european parliament and the council working closely together, applying, of course, the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. it's the only answer to all the challenges that lie ahead.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the preparation of the commission's work programme for 2017. the current crises in the eu require european solutions, and eu action must focus on the main priorities that directly benefit citizens. employment remains a priority for the union and the commission should prepare appropriate measures to stimulate investment in research, development, innovation and creativity. this is a precondition for creating new jobs. the eu's economic and social agenda must include measures to reduce inequalities and to promote employment, especially for young people and the long-term unemployed. the commission must also address the root causes of the refugee crisis. as international migration grows in scale, complexity and impact, the eu as a whole should assume greater responsibility for protecting refugees. the eu must also reform its financing and fight tax evasion and tax avoidance through integrated measures at union level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for resolutions on the preparation of the commission work programme 2017. the resolutions set out 10 priority areas: citizens’ working and living conditions, economic recovery and long-term competitiveness, climate change and energy security, migration and refugees, citizens’ internal and external security concerns, eu external action, fair taxation, eu financial resources, completing the economic and monetary union, and the state of fundamental rights, rule of law and democracy in the eu member states. i voted in favour because i believe that, among other areas, the eu asylum and migration policy need profound reconsideration.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the strategic priorities in the commission's 2017 work programme. europe is currently facing many common and global challenges, while many citizens are increasingly dissatisfied and concerned about the uncertainty of the future and the lack of opportunities, and expect decision-makers to respond. i agree that the european union will not succeed if it is reduced to an economic project and that economic, social and territorial cohesion must be strengthened. the main priority for europe is thus to strengthen the democratic legitimacy of the eu and to restore confidence in its ability to act in the interests of its citizens. the eu must first of all ensure that its citizens have a basic set of fair working conditions and access to quality education, social protection and basic services that will allow them to reconcile their professional and private lives and meet the requirements of the modern eu labour market.
in writing. ‒ i supported the joint motion for a resolution concerning japan's decision to renew the whaling fleet in 2015 and 2016. the resolution is a response to the decision by the japanese fisheries agency to inform the international whaling commission last november that it would be restoring whales under the newrep-a programme. this decision is contrary to international law relating to the whale industry. the international whaling commission maintains a global moratorium on commercial whaling and prohibits international commercial trade in whale products, and also works to abolish 'whaling for scientific purposes'. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom and the united states on the application of the landing obligation for the 2015-2016 season. in view of all the international commitments that have been made, i fully support the resolution calling on japan to cease all whaling activities and to respect the findings of the international whaling commission.
in writing. ‒ the international whaling commission banned commercial whaling of all species of large whales in 1982, and this ban came into effect in 1986. despite this international ban, japan continued to hunt whales for so-called scientific purposes. thus, between 1986, when the ban came into force, and the 2008/2009 season, it killed more than 17000 whales. in its 2014 judgment, the international court of justice rejected japan's scientific whaling programme and found that the specific permits issued by japan for the killing, capture and processing of humpback whales, humpback whales and minke whales were not in line with its obligations under the international whaling convention. this is why we in the european parliament have decided to adopt a resolution calling on japan to respect the decision of the international court of justice and to end all whaling activities. the resolution also calls on the european commission and the council to encourage japan to commit to its international obligations regarding the protection of marine mammals in the context of the current negotiations for an eu free trade agreement. i believe that the adoption of the resolution is necessary because it will help to improve the situation in the whale sector. that's why i voted to pass the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint resolution on japan's decision to renew the whaling season 2015/2016. i support the continuation of the moratorium on commercial whaling, which was introduced by the international whaling commission in 1982 to protect stocks from extinction and to enable them to recover. i therefore agree with the call for japan to immediately cease all its whaling activities and to respect the findings of the international whaling commission. japan's whale recovery is in violation of international whaling commission standards and international law, and is threatening the protection of biodiversity and marine ecosystems.
in writing. ‒ the resolution refers to the decision of japan to renew the whaling season 20152016. as the report contained some points which i could not support, in addition to the good points, i abstained from voting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for resolutions on calls on japan to stop its whaling activities and to abide by the conclusions of the iwc. the resolutions strongly support the maintenance of the global moratorium on commercial whaling and a ban on international commercial trade in whale products. the resolutions equally urge the end of unjustified ‘scientific whaling’ and support the designation of substantial regions of ocean and seas as sanctuaries in which all whaling is indefinitely prohibited. i voted in favour because i believe that japan should stop its whaling activities in accordance with the conclusions of the international whaling commission’s (iwc) agreement.
in writing. ‒ i supported the joint motion for a resolution on japan's decision to renew the whaling season 20152016. japan continued its whaling activities despite an international ban that went into effect in 1986, killing more than 20,000 whales by 2014. whaling therefore violates the standards of the international whaling commission and international law and threatens the protection of biodiversity and marine ecosystems. the resolution calls on japan to immediately cease all its whaling activities and to respect the findings of the international whaling commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution on the commission delegated decision amending the annex to the decision of the european parliament and of the council granting an eu guarantee to the european investment bank against losses under financing operations supporting investment projects outside the union, as regards belarus. i support the commission's delegated decision, as the european union guarantees were not premature and hasty. the resolution is one-sided, as i believe that the delegated decision took into account all aspects concerning belarus. the council and the commission shall closely cooperate in assessing the current political, economic, social and environmental situation in belarus. according to these assessments, there is sufficient reason to relax the eu's restrictive approach to belarus, which would allow the latter to access eib financing under the eu guarantee.
in writing. ‒ voting on the objection under rule 105 (4) of the rules of procedure concerning the motion for a resolution on the granting of an eu guarantee to the european investment bank against losses under financing in support of investment projects outside the union, as regards belarus, i abstained. the report contained a number of points which i could not support and which were, for me, the key vote.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the proposed resolutions on the commission delegated regulation supplementing directive 2014/59/eu with regard to regulatory technical standards specifying criteria regarding the methodology for setting the minimum capital requirement and qualifying liabilities. i had no reason to.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution on the commission delegated regulation supplementing the directive of the european parliament and of the council with regard to regulatory technical standards specifying criteria relating to the methodology for setting the minimum capital requirement and the minimum amount of eligible liabilities. i support the delegated regulation as the eba has consulted the banking stakeholder group and at the same time provided an explanation of how it has taken the results of this consultation into account in the preparation of the final draft technical standards submitted to the commission.
in writing. ‒ objection under rule 105 (4) of the rules of procedure relating to the motion for a resolution on regulatory technical standards laying down criteria relating to the methodology for determining the minimum capital requirement and qualifying liabilities, rejected. i support the view of parliament and the council so far.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the objection pursuant to rule 105(4): setting the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities. directive 2014/59/eu of the european parliament and of the council with regard to regulatory technical standards specifying the criteria relating to the methodology for setting the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities empowers the commission to adopt delegated acts specifying assessment criteria relating to the methodology for setting the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities. in addition, the directive aims, in future cases of bank failure, to avoid so-called ‘bailouts’ that consist in using taxpayers’ money. moreover, it establishes a common european framework for the recovery and restructuring of failing banks.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution on the commission delegated regulation supplementing the directive of the european parliament and of the council with regard to regulatory technical standards specifying criteria relating to the methodology for setting the minimum capital requirement and the minimum amount of eligible liabilities. i do not think that objection is warranted.
the figures on the explosive growth of illegal jewish settlements in the occupied palestinian territories are a clear message. the possibilities for ensuring peaceful coexistence between two nations in two sovereign states are diminishing. mrs. mogherini, thank you for your clear words on this. the quartet report is not optimistic either. it's more or less quantitative and it's certainly not going to impress either mr. netanyahu or hamas. so i'm going to dedicate this minute to an exhibition on the olive tree, a symbol of peace, survival and harmony. you can see the exhibition here on the first floor of the parliament. israeli and palestinian artists have brought us a message of peace, trees that are older than us and will remain when we are gone. with their wonderful exhibition, the artists reminded us that without empathy and compassion, there is no solution for either palestine or israel.
the european union has therefore repeatedly expressed its support for a solution to the palestinian-israeli conflict and for peace between them, and has endeavoured to find the best solution. a solution that would stop the daily violence, the killing in this area, that we've been working towards for a few decades, a few decades. the european parliament already stressed in a resolution in 2012 that a peaceful and non-violent way of reaching an agreement and dialogue between palestine and israel is the only possible and meaningful way, which of course allows for a lasting solution to the conflict. we have also heard over the years the arguments for not accepting recognition and for accepting recognition of palestine as an independent state. so if this recognition of palestine was an obstacle to peace, it would have been made long ago. and here i would like to join my colleague, mr. weigl, in saying that perhaps we can indeed find wisdom in centuries-old olives.
i recently organised a consultation with people with special needs in my country, slovenia, on the european accessibility act. there i was reminded that, of course, we are still a long way from equality for people with disabilities in society, that they want to be heard more. although i can say that slovenia has done quite well in this area. the disabled also stressed that they face various forms of discrimination, not only in society as such, but above all they pointed to discrimination still present in the labour market. in addition to the proposals contained in the report, which will certainly help people with special needs to live independently, i believe it is essential that we adopt the accessibility act as soon as possible.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i am not sure that the kingdom of bahrain deserves to be after short time again a subject of an urgency resolution of the european parliament. recently, we were hosting in brussels a conference on religious pluralism and tolerance in bahrain, with the participation of the supreme religious leaders of the shia, protestant, baha’i and hindu communities. high representatives of the government also participated in the event. it sent a message to the region that bahrain wants to be a leader on tolerance and coexistence – something that other neighbouring countries could not present. if bahraini authorities violate the human rights of individuals, and they do it, it is their right to be protected and we should do it, but bearing in mind that this small gulf country, situated in the sensitive region and subject to confrontations and pressures from abroad as well as of the sectarian battles for political prestige. we must be interested for a stable bahrain as well as for a country with the respect of human rights and democratic values and proven readiness to cooperate with the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's recommendation to the council on the 71st session of the united nations general assembly, which sets out the guidelines to be advocated by the eu at the forthcoming session. i think the most important thing is the issue of security in the world, especially in the middle east and africa. the general assembly should adopt binding measures to bring an immediate end to the violence and establish a transitional government in syria, as agreed at the vienna peace talks. on the fight against climate change, i look forward to a strengthening of the joint efforts of the eu and the un to ensure the swift implementation of the conclusions of the paris climate conference at the end of 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which makes recommendations to the council on peace and security, the fight against terrorism, non-proliferation and disarmament, migration, human rights, democracy and the rule of law, development, climate change and reform of the un system. i myself share the view that the conflicts in the middle east and north africa must be brought to an end immediately and that lasting political solutions must be found at multilateral level to bring peace to this troubled region, with increased peacekeeping operations. to achieve this, we must first root out terrorism and strengthen support for unhcr's work in helping refugees. the convention on human rights recognises the universality of human rights and calls for greater efforts to protect the rights of religious and other minorities from persecution and violence. to achieve this, first of all, the work of the general assembly must be reformed and strengthened, so that it can coordinate more effectively the work of the institutions within the united nations.
in writing. ‒ the annual report with recommendations to the council for the autumn plenary session of the united nations general assembly calls on the members of the security council to refrain from using the veto in cases of crimes against humanity. it also includes a recommendation that eu member states actively participate in the open working group, the general assembly's subsidiary body for multilateral nuclear disarmament negotiations. as usual, the only reference made in connection with the reform of the security council is that the long-term objective is for the european union to have a seat on the security council. the commission also notes that the use of drones in the context of the unsc resolution 2187 (2005) is not a new development, but is a new development. the report also recommends defining climate migrants, prosecuting sexual abuse by un troops, taking action to protect whistleblowers, and reforming the rules of special envoys to ensure neutrality. in view of all the above, i believe that the report contains many good recommendations, which is also the basis for my vote in favour of adopting the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report with a proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the 71st session of the united nations general assembly. the european union must play a proactive role in the united nations, and eu member states must strive for coordinated action in un bodies and agencies. i support the recommendation to the council to continue to support multilateral efforts to find lasting and peaceful political solutions to the conflicts in the middle east and north africa and to support the talks in syria following the un security council resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report of the 71st session of the un general assembly. the latter addresses recommendations to the council on peace and security, the fight against terrorism, non-proliferation and disarmament, migration, human rights, democracy and the rule of law, development, climate change and reform of the un system. the council must continue to support multilateral efforts to find a lasting political and peaceful solution to the ongoing conflicts in the middle east and north africa. it must reiterate its unequivocal condemnation of terrorism and its full support for measures aimed at the defeat and eradication of terrorist organisations, in particular the so-called 'isis'. the council must make a clear and firm commitment to the protection of human rights and stress that human rights as agreed in the un conventions are universal, indivisible, interdependent and interrelated. the council should also support a comprehensive reform of the un security council and promote the revival of the work of the general assembly and better cooperation and coordination of action among all un institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report with a proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the 71st session of the united nations general assembly. the report underlines the importance of undertaking active steps to ensure that all parties directly or indirectly involved in armed conflicts and their organisations comply in full with their international obligations and the standards laid down in international law in order to secure peaceful, diplomatic solutions to conflicts of all kinds. i voted in favour because i strongly believe that it is of crucial importance to promote a culture of prevention within the un system in order to improve its capacity to respond more quickly to emerging crises and potential threats to peace and security.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report with a proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the 71st session of the united nations general assembly. global and regional security is deteriorating rapidly and becoming increasingly complex. the un has a key role to play in ensuring security and stability in the world, and eu member states must therefore seek to coordinate their action in the organs and bodies of the un system. the european parliament's recommendation to the council thus contains the key elements for ensuring peace and security, in the field of combating terrorism, disarmament and respect for human rights, the principles of democracy and the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed report on the implementation of the un convention on human rights. in december 2010, the eu was the first organisation to accede to the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. it is the first and so far the only international human rights treaty that the eu has ratified as a whole. following accession, the eu, like the other states parties, was required to submit an initial report on the state of implementation of the convention, with subsequent periodic reports to be prepared every four years. the report aims to focus on the work of the eu institutions, which are to set an example in the implementation of the convention. i agree with the rapporteur, ms stevens, that there is no hierarchy in human rights and that discrimination on the grounds of disability should be treated like any other form of discrimination. this is particularly important for women and children with disabilities, the elderly and individuals with multiple support needs, including those with special intellectual and psychosocial needs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the implementation of this convention promotes, protects and ensures the full and equal enjoyment by persons with disabilities of all human rights and fundamental freedoms and helps to promote respect for their inherent dignity. a step forward is needed to enable disabled people to participate fully and effectively in society on an equal basis with others, and this is well covered in this report. my view has always been that more development projects should be set up, focusing primarily on people with special needs. i also agree with the establishment of mechanisms for capacity building and the exchange of good practice between the different institutions, both within the eu itself and among its members. i supported the report as a whole, but i did not support some of the proposed amendments relating to discrimination and the financial part, which infringes the fundamental rights of disabled people the proper use of funds and compliance with the rules of the structural funds are in the member states' domain.
in writing. ‒ in december 2010, the european union became the first regional integration organisation to accede to the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. it is the first international human rights treaty ratified by the european union as a whole. the optional protocol has not been signed or ratified. with the ratification of the convention, the european union is now under the supervision of the committee on the rights of persons with disabilities. the report focuses on recommendations falling within the competence of the european union, which may lead to implementation complications at national level. particular attention shall be paid to the institutions of the european union, which shall set an example in the implementation of the convention. this covers staff regulations and recruitment and retention practices, as well as public events organised by the european parliament or held on its premises. there is no hierarchy in human rights and discrimination on the grounds of disability must be treated like any other form of discrimination. this is particularly important for women and children with disabilities, the elderly and individuals with multiple support needs, including those with special intellectual and psychosocial needs. that is why i voted to adopt the report on the implementation of the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, with particular reference to the concluding observations of the united nations committee on the rights of persons with disabilities. as an alternate member of the committee on transport and tourism, i supported the initiative calling on the council and the commission to take better account of the needs of disabled people and to take them consistently into account when reviewing eu regulations, for example on passenger rights in different modes of transport, and when drafting legislation, for example on passenger rights in multimodal travel. in 2010, the european union committed itself to a barrier-free europe in the framework of the european disability strategy.
in writing. ‒ we must be aware that we still live in a society that treats disabled people as different. i supported the report on the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, with particular reference to the concluding observations of the un committee on the rights of persons with disabilities, because persons with disabilities are still exposed to inequalities and exclusion in the labour market. as many as 80 million europeans suffer from a mild or severe form of disability, and in the future we can expect these numbers to increase as a result of the ageing of the european population. the convention covers a wide range of rights in different areas of life that are not within the eu's competence. member states are therefore required to apply the convention in the same way at all levels. the standards of the convention must be implemented throughout the eu. by creating a strong legal framework for the implementation of the convention, the eu will underline that it takes its commitment to respect and implement human rights seriously.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, with special regard to the concluding observations of the un crpd committee. the crpd covers a large range of rights, spanning into all areas of life. it deplores the discrimination and exclusion that persons with disabilities still face today and underlines the need to ensure that discrimination in all aspects on the grounds of disability is prohibited in the european union. i voted in favour because i am of the opinion that disability-based discrimination must be tackled in the same way as discrimination on other grounds, including discrimination on more than one ground. this is especially important for women and children with disabilities, older persons and individuals who have complex support needs, including those with intellectual and psychosocial disabilities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, with particular reference to the concluding observations of the united nations committee on the rights of persons with disabilities. we must enable disabled people to live in a society where they have the same opportunities as others and are guaranteed full inclusion and participation. i therefore join the call for a comprehensive cross-sectoral review and evaluation of current and future eu legislation and funding programmes to mainstream disability in all legislative policies and strategies and ensure the effective enjoyment and realisation of recognised rights.
in writing. ‒ i supported the objection to the commission implementing act on permitted health claims on food, as their use must not be ambiguous or misleading. this would most likely be the case with claims on energy drinks containing caffeine. the use of health claims has been found to contribute to an increased consumption of energy drinks, which justifies the expectation that the daily intake of sugar and caffeine will exceed the recommended maximum daily intake. this would consequently lead to adverse effects on the health of humans and in particular on adolescents, who are the most massive consumers of energy drinks.
in writing. ‒ i support the objection under rule 106 of the rules of procedure to the motion for a resolution on the list of permitted health claims made on foods, other than those referring to the reduction of disease risk and to children's development and health. to date, the commission has not yet defined the specific nutrient profiles with which foods or certain categories of foods must comply in order to be able to bear nutrition and health claims and the conditions for the use of nutrition and health claims for foods or categories of foods in relation to nutrient profiles. a whopping 68% of teenagers and 18% of children regularly consume energy drinks. children and adolescents who regularly consume energy drinks have been found to experience headaches, insomnia, and behavioral problems on a regular basis. the commission should examine the possibility of introducing a restriction on the marketing of energy drinks to children and adolescents. a mere non-binding discouragement of the marketing of energy drinks to children under 12 years of age is not a sufficient measure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection pursuant to rule 106: permitted health claims made on foods. energy drinks have been linked to headaches, sleep problems and behavioural problems in children and adolescents who consume them regularly. i voted in favour of the objection because i believe that the claims that caffeine helps to increase alertness and that caffeine helps to improve concentration should not be used for foods targeting children and adolescents, who are the largest group of energy-drink consumers.
i myself welcome both important reports, as well as the commission's reports on the regulation and design of the energy market and, of course, on heating and cooling in europe and the strategy in this field. we are adopting these documents at a time when we are talking about the energy union on the one hand and committing ourselves to the environmental goals in paris last year on the other, and these two reports are going in the right direction. it's moving in a direction where on the one hand it promotes energy efficiency, and energy efficiency is the alpha and omega of everything we need to talk about in energy itself. a lot of things can be regulated by our regulations, a lot of things can be regulated by states, and a lot of things can be regulated at the local level. i have, like many of you, experience of local action. i was the mayor of the first municipality in slovenia to be declared the most energy efficient, and i can tell you from my own experience how much can be done at the local level. the water potential of renewable energy sources also needs to be discussed. again in slovenia, in my home country, we have, through our efforts, placed five hydropower plants in the regional environment, which now produce 7% of the electricity in slovenia. green energy, jobs and also flood protection. so there is a lot of salt in these reports, as we say in slovenia, and it is right that they be taken seriously, accepted both at european level and, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, that they assume their share of responsibility by the state as well as by the local communities. and only together can we succeed in this area.
congratulations to the reporters, my dear commissioner. cohesion policy is designed firstly to help countries and regions with developmental backlogs to overcome these developmental backlogs, secondly to steer the development of new technologies, to make a development breakthrough in countries, and thirdly to connect countries and people across europe. the reports also cover these areas. let me touch two. first, the reports on smart specialisation: we have a very large gap in europe, we do not know how to establish effective cooperation between the economy and science, research and innovation. this is why europe is lagging behind today. i fear that the introduction of smart specialisation is also lagging behind in some countries, because the actors do not understand its importance. i therefore ask for action to ensure that this area of cohesion is well implemented during this programming period. the next area to be discussed today is the alpine region, the strategy for the alpine region. i come from slovenia, which also presides over the alpine region. we were together at the first meeting of this alpine region, commissioner, and it is truly an opportunity for the countries that live in this beautiful area to preserve this area and, on the other hand, to preserve life and economic activity in this area through economic activity, through the sharing of experience.
in writing. the establishment of the european union emergency trust fund for africa and the allocation of €1.8 billion of eu funding is an ad hoc response to the challenges we face and reminds us that we need a more flexible eu budget and increased budgetary reserves if we are to cope more effectively with unexpected crises in the future. despite the extraordinary circumstances that require us to act quickly and effectively, we must not forget the legal, transparent and responsible use of the european union budget. if we want to exploit the full potential of the trust fund, we need a higher contribution from member states that have contributed less than 5% to the fund. i want member states to move from words to deeds, to honour their commitments and to contribute to the fund.
in writing. i am saddened by the fact that women still face too much discrimination in the labour market, which is unacceptable in the 21st century. in particular, the conditions for reconciling private and professional life are particularly evident in the larger cities, where the lack of space in kindergartens, nursing homes and homes for the elderly makes it difficult for women in particular to reconcile their careers and private lives. in most european countries, men and women are still not equal providers. a good example is my country, slovenia. our citizens are entitled to maternity and paternity leave, plus maternity and parental leave, which gives men equal opportunities and helps women with childcare. the commission and the member states should develop policies and measures to facilitate the reconciliation of work and private life. investing in infrastructure and building new kindergartens and homes for the elderly is also essential.
we heard in an interesting debate that the g20 summit was only partially successful. leaders agreed on new measures to combat tax evasion, the united states and china agreed to ratify the paris agreement on climate change, leaders gave a yellow card to chinese dumping in the steel industry, and reiterated their commitment to global trade and free trade agreements. it also appears that the us and russia have finally taken responsibility for the ceasefire in syria. but the summit was certainly not a particularly successful one for the new prime minister of the united kingdom. in it, us president obama reiterated to the new british prime minister that the uk would not have any privileges in negotiating a new trade agreement with the us, nor did the us intend to change its traditional foreign policy priorities. he stressed that one of america's top priorities was the transatlantic partnership with the european union. soon after, even the japanese government handed may a study that found that many japanese companies would be forced to move their headquarters from the united kingdom to other european union member states if the british did not remain part of the single market. well, despite this, the g20 has brought some perhaps less visible messages. this is a stronger commitment by the twenty to free trade and, in this context, to combating various forms of protectionism. this certainly applies to china, and it also sounds like a warning of a possible change of course after the us election. the new economic momentum must be based on innovation and equity, and economic growth must be inclusive. these g20 messages are good. i hope that the outcome of this summit will encourage the european union to accelerate the adoption of free trade agreements with canada and the united states.
the committee of inquiry into emissions from the automotive sector, together with the european commission, plays an important role in this investigation. it is more than obvious that we have poor market surveillance in the european union of what is happening in the automotive sector. the scandal uncovered at volkswagen is not an isolated one, and we find this out after switchgear has been officially banned in the european union for 18 years. diesel vehicles with defective ignition systems still drive on our roads, polluting our air. reducing co2 emissions is an important task for all of us, and a stronger response is needed to this kind of scandal, including by identifying and sanctioning those responsible. the european regulation is too vague in this area, since despite the legal prohibition on the use of detachable devices, it leaves too many possibilities of interpretation regarding the use of these devices, and it is therefore necessary to regulate this as soon as possible. it is also important that member states participate in this investigation in addition to the european commission and the committee of inquiry. it is ultimately about consumer confidence in european products.
before voting on today's candidates for the european court of auditors, let me make two important points. first, article 286 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides that the council, after consulting the european parliament, is to adopt the list of members of the european court of auditors drawn up in accordance with the proposals of the member states. of course, this means strictly formally that parliament should only have a consultative role, but this does not mean that the council should not also respect and take account of the will of the european parliament. i therefore think that, as has happened in some previous cases, this time and in future too the council will take the european parliament's position on these nominations seriously and take it into account, otherwise i do not know why we are carrying out this whole procedure if the council has the final say. and i think, for a good working relationship in the future, this is important information. secondly, and of even greater concern, the list of candidates for new members of the european court of auditors today again includes only male candidates. and parliament has long stressed the importance of gender equality. the parliament's report on the role of the european court of auditors in the future states that parliament will take the issue of gender balance among the members of the court of auditors very seriously. and just for the record, the court is currently represented by only four of its 28 members. and if the pace continues as it seems, the picture will be even more defeating. i think i should add, by way of comparison, that it was this parliament that made it clear to the then candidate, mr juncker, that the number of commissioners in the current commission should not be lower than the number of commissioners in the previous college. it is time to establish the same standards in all european institutions, and i hope that this will be taken seriously in the future.
in writing. ‒ smart specialisation can help to channel investment and concentrate research and innovation in areas where regional and local competences are most present. the emerging differences between european regions in research and innovation indicate that there is a need for policies tailored to local needs. smart specialisation offers the opportunity for differentiation and economic transformation through innovation, which will be based on local resources and comparative advantages. efforts and investments will thus focus on a limited number of priorities, identified in a process in which entrepreneurs and researchers will play a leading role. smart specialisation has become the main principle and precondition for obtaining funding from the european regional development fund (erdf). the report thus re-emphasises the important role that smart specialisation plays in cohesion policy. i believe that this is the right direction to take in this area, and that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on cohesion policy and research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation. i support europe's efforts to create knowledge-based and sustainable growth, balanced development and high-quality jobs in all regions. this is especially important during times of economic crisis. cohesion policy is the policy that ensures that europe grows evenly, that there are not too many differences in development between the different regions of the eu. i support the call for regions to develop innovative support service schemes that complement or replace existing services in order to enable individual regions to reach their full competitive potential.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal on cohesion policy and research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation (ris3). the latter aims to create knowledge-based and sustainable growth, balanced development and high-quality jobs in all regions, including the less developed, rural and island regions. ris3 strategies are an important tool to close innovation gaps and boost jobs and growth in europe. for the time being, we can see that the establishment of strategies still leaves ample scope for change. public authorities should endeavour to pay particular attention to the monitoring and review of strategies in order to maximise their impact and interregional cooperation, thereby creating ambitious projects that create added value for the economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on cohesion policy and research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation (ris3). the ris3 supports a broad definition of innovation as signifying the transformation of an idea into a new or improved product or service introduced on the market, into a new or improved operational process used in industry and commerce, or into a new approach to a social service. i strongly believe that in these times of economic, financial and social crisis the eu must step up its efforts to create smart, sustainable and inclusive economic growth. i voted in favour because i am of the opinion that ris3 should help make the european economy more competitive, develop european added value in innovation, create more and better high-quality jobs, and take on board a wide range of new experiences.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on cohesion policy and research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation (ris3). i agree that in these times of economic, financial and social crisis, the european union must step up its efforts to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive economic growth. i therefore believe that research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation (ris3) will contribute to the competitiveness of the european economy, the development of european added value in innovation, the creation of more high-quality jobs and the acquisition of a wide range of new experiences.
in writing. ‒ european territorial cooperation is an important instrument in cohesion policy. it is designed to transcend administrative boundaries, reduce the impact of national borders and remove barriers to cooperation and territorial integration. cross-border cooperation in the periods 2000-2006 and 2007-2013 has produced good practices in the areas of better connectivity and accessibility, transfer of knowledge and innovation, strengthening of regional identity, addressing environmental challenges and more. european territorial cooperation provides a significant added value for the european union, contributing to peace, stability and regional integration within the framework of the enlargement and neighbourhood policies. cross-border cooperation can also bring added value to managing the migration crisis. parliament analysed the implementation of european territorial cooperation as presented in the 2014-2020 programming period. parliament has always supported such a policy and has therefore also asked for more funds to this end. the report proposes some new ways of regulating this mechanism, such as thematic focus and action orientation. it is also important to note that around 41% of the european territorial cooperation budget under the european regional development fund is devoted to environmental improvement measures. for all the reasons i have mentioned, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on european territorial cooperation best practices and innovative measures. i support european territorial cooperation, which is part of cohesion policy and which contributes to reducing the impact of national borders, in order to reduce differences between regions and remove obstacles to investments operating across borders. i agree with the report that if we want to exploit the full potential of european territorial cooperation, we should allocate more resources to it within cohesion policy, as it currently represents 2.8% of the cohesion policy budget.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european territorial cooperation proposal best practice and innovative measures. european territorial cooperation was reshaped in the period 2014-2020 to achieve greater impact and more efficient use of investments, with an emphasis on thematic focus and results orientation. european territorial cooperation makes an important contribution to the enhancement of the economic, social and territorial potential of regions by addressing and integrating different sectoral policies at the territorial level. cooperation between different funding and cooperation mechanisms, such as macro-regional strategies, should be increased and links and coherence with national and regional programmes strengthened. member states and regions should develop joint integrated strategies with implementing provisions for the coordination mechanism between the relevant cross-border and transnational programmes and their territorial character, which will allow them to address the challenges that arise in a holistic and more coordinated way and with a long-term perspective.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on european territorial cooperation – best practices and innovative measures. the overarching objective of etc is to lessen the influence of national borders in order to reduce disparities between regions, removing the remaining obstacles to investment and cooperative working across borders, reinforce cohesion, and promote the harmonious economic, social, cultural and territorial development of the union as a whole. the report emphasises that efficient cross-border and transnational cooperation makes a geographical area more attractive for trading companies, by using local, regional and cross-border potential, as well as human capital, as effectively as possible. i voted in favour because i believe that cross-border cooperation is a key tool for the development of border regions, which are considered true laboratories of european integration.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on european territorial cooperation best practices and innovative measures. crossborder cooperation is a key tool for the development of border regions, which are often the most disadvantaged geographically and demographically. i agree with the recommendation that the potential of european territorial cooperation should be further developed in areas such as the single market, the digital agenda, employment, mobility, energy, research, education, culture, health and the environment. the commission and the member states should thus maintain european territorial cooperation as an important instrument, give it a more prominent role in cohesion policy after 2020 and increase the budget considerably.
written. ‒ the activities of the emis committee were in line with the mandate and the accepted methodology of work, in particular in the organisation of the hearings of witnesses and experts, which is the core activity of the committee. all members of the emis board shall have access to all witness and expert testimony via the website, which contributes to the consideration of all relevant information in the final report of the board. the commission has also received comments from the exporting producers concerned. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data. in the future, while respecting the principle of sincere cooperation, the emis committee should be given all possible technical and political support by the competent institutions, which is why i voted in favour of the report at the meeting.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the interim report that highlights several important issues regarding nox emissions and steers the emis committee’s work in the second half of its mandate. we need to better explore what happened during the relevant period, both in the commission as well as in the parliament that lead eventually to vague legislation, which partially enabled the situation we are facing today. the confidence in the industry has been damaged and in order to regain trust, the testing regime clearly needs to reflect the real world more accurately.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament committee of inquiry into emission measurements (emis) in the automotive sector started its work in april 2016 by exchanging views with representatives of the european commission, followed by the hearing of relevant witnesses and experts. the committee also organised visits to specialist laboratories measuring emissions and decided to commission several specialist studies in this field. a dedicated website has been set up where members and the public can find all relevant information on the committee's work. a programme of hearings in the second part of the committee's mandate is also being prepared. these hearings will continue until at least autumn 2016, after which the committee will focus on the preparation of a final report, which must be completed within 12 months of the start of the work. since i believe that there is a need to investigate unfair practices in the automotive sector, i have supported the interim report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the interim report on the inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector. the committee of inquiry into emissions from the automotive sector is carrying out an important task together with the ec. it is more than obvious that we have poor market surveillance in the eu of what is happening in the automotive sector. the scandal uncovered at vw is not an isolated one, and we find this out after the switchgear has been officially banned in the european union for 18 years. diesel vehicles with malfunctioning ignition systems still drive on our roads, polluting our air. reducing co2 emissions is an important task for all, and such scandals need to be tackled more decisively, including by identifying and sanctioning those responsible. the european regulation is too vague in this area, because despite the legal prohibition on the use of switching devices, it leaves too many possibilities of interpretation regarding the use of these devices, and it is therefore necessary to regulate this as soon as possible. it is also important that member states participate in this investigation, in addition to the european commission and the european parliament. it is ultimately about consumer confidence in european products.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector. on 17 december 2015, the european parliament set up an emis committee of inquiry with 45 members to investigate, without prejudice to the jurisdiction of national or union courts, alleged breaches or irregularities in the implementation of union legislation relating to emission measurements in the automotive sector. it is therefore right to support the work of the committee of inquiry and to ensure its full transparency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the interim report on the inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector. on the basis of a proposal by the conference of presidents, parliament decided on 17 december 2015 to set up a committee of inquiry to investigate the alleged failures in the application of union law in relation to emission measurements in the automotive sector. according to the mandate, the committee’s investigation has to focus on the compliance by the commission and member states’ authorities with the obligations imposed by regulation (ec) no 715/2007. the committee is required to make any recommendations that it deems necessary in the matter. i voted in favour because i believe that the results of the ongoing investigation could bring added value to the union’s type-approval framework.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector. i support all measures and initiatives leading to the fulfilment of the mandate of the committee of inquiry given by parliament in its decision of 17 december 2015 to examine the alleged inadequate application of union legislation on emission measurements in the automotive sector and to make any recommendations that it considers necessary in this matter.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a decision on the request for waiver of the immunity of istvan ujhelyi. in the course of the proceedings before the central district court in pest, istván ujhelyi was charged with the criminal offence of defamation under article 226 (1) of law c of the hungarian criminal code of 2012. the crime has nothing to do with the performance of a member of parliament, so i support the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the request for waiver of the immunity of istván ujhelyi. in criminal proceedings brought before the central district court of pest, istván ujhelyi was charged with having committed the crime of defamation pursuant to article 226(1) of act c of 2012 on the hungarian criminal code. since the statements in question were made on 25 april 2014, they were made before istván ujhelyi became a member of the european parliament following his election during the 2014 european parliament elections. i voted in favour of the report because when making the statements in question, istván ujhelyi was not acting in the performance of his duties as member of the european parliament.
in writing. - i voted for the request to waive the immunity of istvan ujhelyi. as is apparent from the report, the charges against istván ujhelyi are not related to any opinion or vote which that member might have expressed in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament and he is therefore not entitled to absolute immunity within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the protection of the privileges and immunities of ms rosaria crocette. in his request, mr rosario crocetta referred to article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. given the circumstances of the case, which concern the work of a member of the european parliament, i supported the protection of privileges and immunities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the request for defence of the privileges and immunities of rosario crocetta. a former member of the european parliament, rosario crocetta, has requested the defence of his parliamentary immunity in connection with criminal proceedings pending before the third criminal chamber of the court of palermo. according to the notice served by the public prosecutor’s office, mr crocetta is alleged to have made defamatory statements, which behaviour is punishable under article 595 of the italian criminal code. mr crocetta’s parliamentary record shows that he had always been very active in the fight against organised crime and its impact on the union and its member states. he also focused on the influence of systematic corruption on politics and the economy. the committee on legal affairs considers that the facts of the case show that the statements in question have direct and obvious connection with mr crocetta’s parliamentary activities. i believe that when he made the statements in question, he raised an issue related to a general interest of concern to european citizens which can be regarded as one of the duties of a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for the waiver of the immunity of mr sotirios zarianopoulos because, in accordance with article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament enjoy in the territory of their country the immunity accorded to members of the parliament of that country and, in accordance with article 62 of the greek constitution, no criminal proceedings may be instituted against members during their term of office, nor may they be deprived of their liberty, imprisoned or otherwise detained without the consent of the chamber of deputies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the request for waiver of the immunity of sotirios zarianopoulos. the public prosecutor at the greek supreme court has requested the waiver of the immunity of sotirios zarianopoulos mep in connection with proceedings relating to an alleged offence. the proposed proceedings concern the issuing in 2011 by thessaloniki city council of allegedly illegal permits to use public property for the purpose of setting up outside seating areas on pavements, and sotirios zarianopoulos is to be prosecuted in his capacity as a former member of that city council. i voted in favour because i believe that the proposed proceedings are clearly unrelated to sotirios zarianopoulos’s status as a member of the european parliament, but are related to his former mandate as a member of thessaloniki city council.
in writing. ‒ as the report shows, the criminal proceedings are not related to sotirios zarianopoulos' status as a member of the european parliament, but to his previous mandate as a member of the municipal council of the city of thessaloniki, and i therefore support the request for the waiver of the immunity of sotirios zarianopoulos.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the people's republic of china pursuant to article xxiv:6 and article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994 relating to the modification of a benefit in the schedule of benefits of the republic of croatia in the course of its accession to the european union. the accession of croatia to the european union also led to the enlargement of the customs union. since this has increased the customs tariffs by more than the rate to which the acceding country has committed itself in the world trade organisation, we need this adjustment.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the eu-china agreement relating to the accession of croatia. following the accession of the republic of croatia, the european union has enlarged the customs union. therefore, in accordance with the rules of the world trade organisation (wto) (article xxiv:6 of the gatt 1994), it had to enter into negotiations with wto members having negotiating rights on the customs tariff of croatia in order to agree on a compensatory adjustment. such adjustment is necessary where the adoption of an eu external tariff regime results in an increase in customs tariffs above the rate to which the acceding country has committed itself in the wto.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the people's republic of china pursuant to article xxiv: 6 and article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994 relating to the modification of concessions in the schedule of the republic of croatia in the course of its accession to the european union. with the accession of the republic of croatia, the european union enlarged its customs union. consequently, the european union was required under world trade organisation (wto) rules to enter into negotiations with wto members having negotiating rights related to the tariff schedule of croatia in order to eventually agree on a compensatory adjustment. such adjustment is due if the adoption of the eu’s external tariff regime results in an increase in tariff beyond the level for which the acceding country has bound itself at the wto. i believe that the people’s republic of china has the right to have its previous trading rights restored, following their slight erosion due to the enlargement of the eu customs union with croatian eu accession.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the eu-china agreement relating to the accession of croatia. following the accession of the republic of croatia, the european union has enlarged the customs union. therefore, in accordance with the rules of the world trade organisation (wto) (article xxiv:6 of the gatt 1994), it had to enter into negotiations with wto members having negotiating rights on the customs tariff of croatia in order to agree on a compensatory adjustment. such adjustment is necessary where the adoption of an eu external tariff regime results in an increase in customs tariffs above the rate to which the acceding country has committed itself in the wto.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the eastern republic of uruguay pursuant to article xxiv:6 and article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994 relating to the modification of a benefit in the schedule of benefits of the republic of croatia in the course of its accession to the european union. the accession of croatia to the european union has also increased the customs union. as this resulted in an increase in tariffs, the eu had to agree with uruguay on a final compensatory adjustment. that's why we need this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the eu-uruguay agreement linked to the accession of croatia. the european union has enlarged its customs union with the accession of the republic of croatia and therefore had to enter into negotiations with the eastern republic of uruguay on the customs tariffs of croatia in accordance with the rules of the world trade organisation (wto) (article xxiv:6 of gatt 1994) in order to agree on a final compensatory adjustment, as the tariffs were increased due to the external tariff regime of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the eastern republic of uruguay pursuant to article xxiv:6 and article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994 relating to the modification of concessions in the schedule of the republic of croatia in the course of its accession to the european union. with the accession of the republic of croatia, the eu enlarged its customs union and was therefore required under wto rules to enter into negotiations to the eastern republic of uruguay regarding the tariff schedule of croatia in order to eventually agree on a compensatory adjustment as the eu’s external tariff regime results in an increase of tariffs. following the negotiations, the eu will incorporate in its schedule for the customs territory of the eu 28 that of the eu 27 with modifications related to tariff rate quotas on bovine meat.
in writing. ‒ the budgetary control committee has assessed the candidate's recommendations, in particular in the light of the requirements of article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i voted for what i thought was right.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the nomination of lazaros stavrou lazarou as a member of the court of auditors because there are no legal, political or personal reasons on the grounds of which an objection to his nomination would be founded.
in writing. ‒ the budgetary control committee has assessed the candidate's recommendations, in particular in the light of the requirements of article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i voted for what i thought was right.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the nomination of joão figueiredo as a member of the court of auditors because there are no legal, political or personal reasons on the grounds of which an objection to his nomination would be founded.
in writing. ‒ the budgetary control committee has assessed the candidate's recommendations, in particular in the light of the requirements of article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i voted for what i thought was right.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the nomination of leo brincat as a member of the court of auditors because there are no legal, political or personal reasons on the grounds of which an objection to his nomination would be founded.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 471/2009 on community statistics relating to external trade with non-member countries, as regards the delegation of implementing powers to the commission to adopt certain measures. i support the proposed amendment to the community statistics regulation by which the commission proposes to adapt the rules on trade policy decision-making to the new regime, following the introduction of the treaty of lisbon, the delegated and implementing acts.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on statistics on external trade with non-member countries (delegated and implementing powers). the commission had to adapt the rules on trade policy decision-making to the new regime of delegated and implementing acts as a result of the changes introduced by the treaty of lisbon and the subsequent adoption of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 (on implementing acts).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 471/2009 on community statistics relating to external trade with non-member countries as regards the conferral of delegated and implementing powers on the commission for the adoption of certain measures. in the light of the changes brought about by the lisbon treaty and by the subsequent adoption of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 (on implementing acts), the commission was required to adapt the decision making rules in trade policy to the new regime of delegated and implementing acts. the commission committed itself to come up with the second wave of comitology alignments – concerning legislative acts containing the regulatory procedure with scrutiny – by the end of the 7th legislature. the agreed text was presented to the committee on international trade (inta) for a vote of approval on 21 april 2016, and was approved by an overwhelming majority.
in writing. ‒ the commission had to adapt the rules on trade policy decision-making to the new regime of delegated and implementing acts as a result of the changes introduced by the lisbon treaty and the subsequent adoption of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 (on implementing acts). the commission has committed itself to preparing a second wave of alignment by the comitology procedure for legislative acts containing the regulatory procedure with scrutiny by the end of the 7th legislative period. in this context, the commission proposed to amend regulation (ec) no 471/2009 on community statistics, which is the only legislative act in the field of the common commercial policy that concerns the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. in line with the above, i have supported the recommendation for a second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 471/2009 on community statistics relating to external trade with non-member countries, as regards the delegation of delegated and implementing powers to the commission to adopt certain measures.
written. ‒ based on the existing directives regulating the field of data collection on natural gas and electricity prices, for household end-users, data collection is voluntary. this solution has led to certain problems in the collection of data by individual member states. this regulation now makes the collection of data compulsory for both industrial end-users and household end-users. this improves and introduces full transparency of natural gas and electricity prices for all users and allows for the sustainability of high quality data in this area. the collection of price data should not place an additional burden on reporting bodies, while the competent national authorities would continue to collect price data. the report also highlights several important points and suggests good solutions, relating to the problems of identifying the entities responsible for price discrimination, which cannot be left to suppliers, then to the preservation of confidentiality of supplier and consumer data, as well as in a segment relating to the explanation that the overall average share of transmission and distribution costs can only be differentiated at the general level of household and non-household customers. i consider that these are all imaginary solutions, which is why i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european statistics on natural gas and electricity prices and repealing directive 2008/92/ec of the european parliament and of the council on a common community procedure for the enhancement of transparency of gas and electricity prices charged to industrial end-users. i support the amendments proposed in the report that member states are the ones to ensure that the data collection and management system provides comprehensible and comparable high quality representative data on natural gas and electricity prices. several member states are facing problems in collecting data, and we need this regulation to make this voluntary basis mandatory.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a regulation on gas and electricity price statistics. the purpose of this regulation is to transform the voluntary basis into a mandatory one in order to avoid problems in collecting data reported by several member states. this is necessary to ensure that the quality of the review of electricity and natural gas price data for the household sector does not deteriorate significantly and to continue to ensure broad market coverage and high quality of price data.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on gas and electricity price statistics. i agree that a common framework for european statistics is needed to support energy policy, in particular to establish a fully integrated internal energy market for consumers. i believe that the proposed regulation will allow for greater transparency in energy costs and prices and in the level of public support.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report that highlights that only stronger market integration can ensure more energy security for the eu. a new energy market design is strategically needed for the achievement of a true eu energy union and this report indicates directions for the commission and proposes relevant solutions for the obstacles that have been hindering a common european market for energy. in the future, more electricity will be traded across borders and that requires efficient cooperation from all market actors, therefore we have to build the capacity for cross-border cooperation to reflect the increasing variability of production so that sufficient energy can flow across the eu.
in writing. ‒ in july 2015, the european commission published a series of documents on the european single market. one of them was also aimed at the electricity market and its future development, with the aim of meeting consumer expectations, bringing the real benefits of new technologies and facilitating investments, in particular in renewable sources. the commission is due to submit a legislative proposal on electricity market design and security of supply by the end of this year. the current overcrowding of conventional power plants in the european union presents both an opportunity and a challenge to further support alternative energy sources. unfortunately, this report does not do so, but rather largely maintains the status quo, by not giving strong support to alternative energy sources and thus not contributing to the depreciation of energy from such sources, which is essential for a more environmentally friendly economy. i decided to vote against the report because it was not ambitious enough.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the way to a new energy market design. we must move towards the completion of the european internal market in electricity, thereby contributing to efficiency, security of supply and the development of renewable energy sources. i support the call to adapt the existing regulatory framework of european markets to allow for a greater share of renewable energy sources and to bridge existing cross-border regulatory gaps. we also need a holistic, forward-looking approach to the re-design of the electricity market. in this context, the report rightly calls on the commission to take the lead in a participatory process aimed at achieving a common practical definition of producers.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the new energy market design. a union-wide electricity market with clear price signals for new investments should be established. it is intended to establish a european approach to energy security and to strengthen regional cooperation in the field of energy policy, in particular in investments in new energy production facilities, in interconnectors and financing rules, and in the integration of renewable energy sources into the european internal market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report entitled ‘towards a new energy market design’. in order to achieve the climate and energy targets, the energy system of the future will need more flexibility, which requires investment in all four flexibility solutions – flexible production, network development, demand flexibility and storage. the report calls for the new electricity market design to embrace a holistic, future-oriented approach. furthermore, it emphasises that a strengthened european internal market in electricity is possible, on the basis of stronger price signals on the wholesale market through prices that reflect actual scarcity and surplus of supplies, including price spikes. i voted in favour because i believe that energy efficiency is a core principle of the energy union strategy, since this is an effective way of reducing emissions, generating savings for consumers and reducing the eu’s dependency on fossil fuel imports.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the road to a new energy market design. i agree with the report's conclusions that the energy system will need to be more resilient in the future in order to achieve climate and energy goals. this requires investment in all four flexible solutions - flexible generation, network development, flexible demand and storage.
written. ‒ the resolution on the eu's heating and cooling strategy is a strategic part of a very important area such as the eu's energy stability and security, given that almost half of the eu's final energy demand is used for heating and cooling. the eu strategy identifies key challenges and needs for increasing energy efficiency and the deployment of renewable energy sources. the observed problems in the durability and inefficiency of residential heating systems in the eu also represent a major potential for increasing energy efficiency. investing in energy saving and energy efficiency offers the highest and fastest return on investment in the energy sector. the strategy recognises the active role that consumers can play in creating a sustainable european heating and cooling system. the need to increase recycling rates is emphasised, as waste-to-energy generation will play a very important role in the heating sector. the strategy points to an integrated approach in mobilising all key actors in relation to the use of all available european structural and investment funds which should be available to all actors, and in particular to small, medium and micro-enterprises. and, by the way, on the ballot, all my support goes to that resolution.
in writing. ‒ the report is a good start to regulating this area, which is unfortunately still dominated by fossil fuels. however, the report's language remains rather loose, giving fossil fuels the opportunity to remain the main source of heating and cooling for a long time to come. in february 2016, the eu adopted its first heating and cooling strategy, which set the objective of reducing dependence on fossil fuels in this area and shifting consumption within the agreed commitments of the recent paris agreement and moving towards more efficient and sustainable sources, while reducing the eu's dependence on imported fuels. the report also discusses, inter alia, building insulation, the use of energy from waste materials and the potential for greater synergies between the electricity market and the heating and cooling market. despite the important issues that are open in this way, i believe that this is a missed opportunity, as parliament should be much more ambitious with the great european potential for energy savings, the creation of new local jobs and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu's strategy for heating and cooling. i agree with the report that the eu heating and cooling strategy is an important step towards providing a holistic approach to transforming heating and cooling in the european union and identifying priority areas for action. in the eu, heating and cooling account for almost 50% of final energy consumption, of which 80% is for heating and cooling buildings. the strategy should prioritise sustainable and cost-effective solutions that enable member states to meet their climate and energy policy objectives. the heating and cooling sectors in the member states are very diverse.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the eu heating and cooling strategy, as i believe that efforts should be made to increase funding for the thermal renovation of entire housing estates, especially those built with large elements. it is also important to replace obsolete district heating plants in residential areas as soon as possible with high-efficiency combined heat and power plants.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on an eu strategy on heating and cooling. almost 50% of the eu’s final energy demand is used for heating and cooling, of which 80% is used in buildings. the report underlines the necessity to take along specific measures for heating and cooling when revising the energy efficiency directive (2012/27/eu), the renewable energy directive (2009/28/ec) and the energy performance of buildings directive (2010/31/eu). moreover, the report calls for specific sustainable heating and cooling strategies to be developed at national level, giving special attention to combined heat and power. i am of the opinion that the heating and cooling sector should reflect the 2015 paris agreement on climate change (cop 21).
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the eu's strategy for heating and cooling. as the report highlights, a heating and cooling sector that is in line with the eu's energy and climate objectives must be based on 100% renewable energy sources by 2050 at the latest, which can only be achieved by radically reducing our energy consumption and by fully applying the principle that energy efficiency is the most important fuel. i agree that more needs to be done to reduce demand for heating in buildings and to shift the remaining demand from fuel-burning to imported fossil fuels in individual boilers to sustainable heating and cooling options in line with the eu 2050 targets.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report because smes, which form the backbone of europe’s economy, need more financing options after the financial crisis caused banks to cut back on lending. as smes have more limited financing options and are in need of macroeconomic stability and a stable regulatory environment, this report urges the eu’s proposed capital market union to help smes gain access to other financing sources like investment capital and crowdfunding. besides, it also calls for a one-stop shop to help smes get financing and to avoid heavy regulation in getting that financing, so that smes can fulfil their job creation potential.
in writing. ‒ smes are the main drivers of the green economy and create green jobs. at the same time, they are very diverse and include a large number of locally established micro-enterprises, often operating in traditional sectors, as well as a growing number of start-ups and fast-growing companies. this is why it is important to support smes in the context of cohesion policy, while assessing whether the funds allocated to them are being used effectively. in the period 2007-13, cohesion policy support provided eur 70 billion to support mainly smes, and this amount is expected to double in the period 2014-2020, as support for such enterprises is one of the priorities of the european union's cohesion policy, and in particular the regional development fund. in its report, parliament calls on the european commission to take account of the principles of the circular economy package in order to promote more sustainable economic growth and create new quality jobs, with a focus on promoting green jobs. i supported this report because of the important role of smes in europe's green economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the thematic objective to increase the competitiveness of smes. as we have repeatedly noted, smes are the backbone of the european economy and as such play an important role in europe's recovery from the economic and financial crisis, which has increased poverty rates in many member states, as well as long-term unemployment, youth unemployment and social inequalities. i support the call on the commission and the member states to take account of the added value of smes' projects for development and innovation in traditional sectors, as this will encourage job creation while preserving local and regional business specificities, taking into account the principles of sustainability.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to increase the competitiveness of smes. small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are essential to the eu economy in terms of employment and competitiveness. we expect that around 801 500 enterprises will receive support, which would directly create 354 300 new jobs. smes are the main driver of long-term european economic growth and sustainable job creation in the 28 member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on implementation of the thematic objective ‘enhancing the competitiveness of smes’ – article 9(3) of the common provisions regulation. the shared objective of investments under the esi funds is to provide support for the delivery of the eu’s europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the report highlights that there is an overall need for mechanisms that help to simplify the business environment and speed up the process of setting up new businesses with refit to support sme competitiveness and absorption of esi funds. i voted in favour because i believe that small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are essential for the economy of eu regions, both in terms of employment and competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ the alpine strategy is an excellent opportunity to increase the cooperation of the alpine regions and to help the outlying regions. environmentally friendly economic development and activities not based solely on tourism can help to keep the population in these areas and ensure a decent life for them, and that is why i fully support and vote for the report on the strategy at the meeting itself.
in writing. ‒ the eu strategy for the alpine region (eusalp) is the european union's fourth macro-regional strategy and covers 48 regions in seven countries, five of which are eu member states (italy, france, slovenia, austria, germany) and two non-members (liechtenstein and switzerland). this region is one of the largest economic regions in europe, with more than 70 million people living and working there. the commission has identified several challenges to be addressed by eusalp. these are: economic globalisation, demographic trends, climate change, energy challenges and the specific geographical location. transport and mobility are traditionally the two biggest challenges facing the alpine region, mainly due to the environmental and climatic impacts in the alps. while such a strategy is welcome, it did not take into account the proposals of the eu parliament's committee on transport and tourism, and at the same time the report does not cover the topics of environmental and climate protection, renewable energy sources, which in my opinion are increasingly crucial in this region. in view of the indecisiveness of the report and the lack of coverage of the issues mentioned, i abstained from voting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu strategy for the alpine region. as an alternate member of the committee on transport and tourism, i support the committee's call for the commission and the member states to strengthen multi-level governance in transport planning and implement a policy of developing sustainable, inclusive and non-invasive transport infrastructure in a highly mountainous alpine region that will preserve the region and promote the balanced development of economically weaker regions and areas in the areas of tourism, social cohesion, economic development and employment. the commission should also focus on optimising the existing infrastructure network capacity, with the overall aim of improving the functioning of the ten-t network.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the eu strategy for the alpine region. the presence of mountain areas with low resource use (inland areas) and valleys with high production concentration in eusalp requires the implementation of integrated economic strategies. the development priorities are: improving the competitiveness, prosperity and cohesion of the alpine region; providing access and connectivity to all the inhabitants of the alpine region (cross-border transport, intermodal links with the hinterland); and ensuring sustainability in the alps.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on an eu strategy for the alpine region. the eusalp strategy is being introduced in a region in which various cooperation arrangements, including the alpine space, the alpine convention and a range of interreg cross-border programmes, are already in place. eusalp covers 48 regions in seven countries, five of which are member states (italy, france, slovenia, austria and germany). the other two countries are switzerland and liechtenstein. the report supports strategic planning among both urban and rural areas of the alpine region, with a view to promoting networking and common targets in a coherent, coordinated and integrated policy framework. furthermore, it stresses the need to strengthen further the social dimension, in order to ensure the pursuit of a growth model that can secure sustainable growth, social inclusion and social protection for all, in particular in border areas. i voted in favour because i believe that the strategy opens opportunities for the development of its the labour market, which has different important levels of cross-border commuting.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the eu strategy for the alpine region. i agree with the calls for active synergies between agricultural and other economic activities in protected areas in the region (natura 2000 areas, national parks, etc.) in order to develop integrated tourism products, and with the importance of preserving and protecting the unique habitats in mountain regions.
written. ‒ the african development fund should be a european development instrument that brings together funds from a variety of donors to enable the eu to intervene efficiently, quickly, transparently and collectively in various aspects of crisis situations in africa, which continues to have very high rates of population growth, especially among young people, which on the one hand represents great social and economic potential, and on the other hand risks of instability due to increasing poverty. this is why both the european development fund and official development assistance must be allocated to clear objectives, in the economic, social and human development of the beneficiaries in africa, as stated in the report. the report also highlights the need to involve local authorities, civil society and international organisations in the planning, implementation and evaluation phases of the mutual fund. the report rightly emphasises the need for greater transparency and clarity to better achieve the objectives of this financial instrument and warns of the risk of misuse of eu development assistance. the mutual fund should create added value to existing sources of funding. the commission should also be able to use the resources of the european structural and investment funds to support the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance. all of this leads us to support the report and that is why i supported such a report.
in writing. ‒ the eu trust fund for africa was established last year in response to migration flows to europe. it aims to use specific resources to tackle the root causes of such migration and to support all aspects of stability that can contribute to better coping with migration. the fund covers the geographical regions of the sahel, lake chad, the horn of africa and north africa, and the funding comes mainly from the budget of the european development fund (edf). possible projects that could be set up with the assistance of the fund relate to the design of economic programmes that will create employment opportunities, projects that would support basic services for the local population, projects that would support migration management, and support for general management. although the report is incomplete or repetitive in certain respects, i believe that such a fund can have a positive impact on potential migrants from these areas as well as on the lives of europeans. that is why i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu trust fund for africa: implications for development and humanitarian aid. the creation of the european union emergency trust fund for africa and the allocation of €1.8 billion of eu funding is an ad hoc response to the challenges we face and reminds us that we need a more flexible eu budget and increased budgetary reserves if we are to cope more effectively with unexpected crises in the future. despite the extraordinary circumstances that require us to act quickly and effectively, we must not forget the legal, transparent and responsible use of the european union budget. if we want to exploit the full potential of the trust fund, we need a higher contribution from member states that have contributed less than 5% to the fund. i want member states to move from words to deeds, to honour their commitments and to contribute to the fund.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the eu trust fund for africa: implications for development and humanitarian aid. the main objectives of the eu trust fund for africa are to contribute to regional stability, manage migration, address the root causes of destabilisation and forced displacement, and promote resilience, economic opportunity, equality, security and development. we need to equip young people with the education and skills they need to fulfil their potential and create employment opportunities in order to promote stability, sustainable economic growth, social cohesion and development in the region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of report on the eu trust fund for africa: the implications for development and humanitarian aid. the main goal of the eu trust fund for africa (eutf) is to help foster stability in the regions and contribute to better migration management; whereas, more specifically, the eutf aims to address the root causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and irregular migration by promoting resilience, economic opportunities, equal opportunities, security and development. the report stresses that the volatility of voluntary contributions shows that recourse to funding instruments outside the eu budget is not a viable way to mobilise additional funding and urges the member states to honour their pledges and to rapidly and effectively match the union contribution. i voted in favour because i strongly believe that the eutf should focus not only on economic development but also on grassroots projects specifically aimed at improving quality, equity and universal accessibility of basic services as well as training to develop local competences.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the eu trust fund for africa: implications for development and humanitarian aid. africa is still facing a high rate of population growth and only a slow decline in fertility, which will result in a surge in the number of young people in work in the near future, with great potential social and economic benefits. i believe it is essential to equip young people with the education and skills they need to fulfil their potential and to create employment opportunities in order to promote stability, sustainable economic growth, social cohesion and development in the region. the fund is also primarily a tool to combat migration.
written. ‒ a good work-life balance simultaneously promotes economic growth, competitiveness, overall labour market participation, gender equality, reduction of the risk of poverty and intergenerational solidarity, and responds to the challenges of an ageing society and has a positive impact on eu birth rates. given that reconciliation of work, private and family life is recognised as a fundamental right, and although some initiatives have been launched in this area at european and national level, it is necessary to allow for further progress to ensure a balance between private and work life. this is very important, as the report itself states, not only for the well-being of the individual but also for the well-being of society as a whole, because people who have a satisfactory work-life balance are more productive at work. in particular, the report shall indicate what has been done and the position of the child in the context of work-life balance. the aim of the project is to develop a comprehensive strategy for the prevention of child labour, which will be implemented in the context of the european year of the child. for these reasons, i support this report in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ achieving work-life balance requires coordinated and comprehensive policies for reconciling work, care and time with family and friends, and leisure and personal development. both the eu and its member states should adopt policies that are adapted to today's realities and promote gender equality in the workplace and in other spheres of life. in particular, legislation on parental leave for mothers and fathers should be updated. there are many reasons for modernising this framework at eu level, including changes in demographics, the emergence of new ways of working and the significant negative impact of parenting on women's employment. parliament therefore decided to draw up a report to launch the debate and encourage the commission to work more quickly in this area. the report aims not only to promote gender equality in employment and other areas of life, but also to take into account the needs of an increasingly diverse society and to integrate a life-cycle approach to work-life balance. the report also seeks to speed up negotiations between european workers and trade unions on this issue. i think the report is positive and contains important points, and i have decided to support it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on creating favourable conditions in the labour market for reconciling work and private life. to achieve a balance between work, private and family life, we need sound, coherent and comprehensive policies. i therefore support incentives and effective measures to balance work, family care and time with family, and leisure and personal development. we need to promote family-friendly working environments, reconciliation plans and re-entry programmes, as the crisis has further reduced already low fertility rates in the european union, as young people delay child-planning due to unemployment, precarious employment, uncertain futures and discrimination in the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to create favourable conditions on the labour market for reconciling work and private life. the initiative aims to increase women's participation in the labour market by updating and adapting the current eu legal and policy framework to today's labour market, to enable parents with children and/or other dependent family members to better reconcile family and professional life, to increase the sharing of care responsibilities between women and men, and to strengthen gender equality in the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on creating labour market conditions favourable for work-life balance. the aim of this report is not only to promote gender equality in employment and other spheres of life, but also to give children the possibility to reach their full potential by providing them with high quality early childhood education and care, access to leisure, cultural and sport activities and time with their parents. the report emphasizes that a better work-life balance and strengthened gender equality is essential for supporting the participation of women in the labour market. i voted in favour because i believe that proper work-life balance policies will help to ensure a higher quality of life and security for other dependants, in particular older dependants and dependants with disabilities or long-term illnesses.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to create favourable conditions on the labour market for reconciling work and private life. i support the initiative to increase women's participation in the labour market by updating and adapting the current eu legal and policy framework to today's labour market.
turkey, like the european union, is at a crossroads. the country is facing so many problems that we cannot blame turkish president erdogan for trying to force certain concessions from the european union on the refugee issue. nor can we blame the leaders of the union and the member states for trying to buy peace for refugees. however, our citizens will be very angry if we completely forget that turkey has chosen, in this transition, a path which is moving further and further away from democracy and respect for human rights. if turkey does not fulfil the conditions for visa liberalisation, it cannot be granted. the rules are clear. and it's hard to understand why president erdogan is taking an authoritarian approach with little dialogue, with which he is taking away the freedom of its citizens. and while we're dealing with turkey, moves are already happening in other neighborhoods, like egypt. if we ignore them, something could happen very quickly that could cause the union to slip at the crossroads.
the social area is one of the areas where the european union has remained halfway through harmonisation. on the one hand, we have the free movement of people who can travel and work anywhere in the union. they may also work in various forms of employment. on the other hand, there are companies operating in the single market. they are put in a position where they have to ensure competitiveness, or else they may close their doors. we also have countries within the european union that cannot guarantee the same level of social rights, because of course their budgets cannot afford it. we have to distinguish between the exploitation of employees, which some employers exploit for their own greed. this is unacceptable, of course. and we have to distinguish on the other hand between ensuring equal income and equal social status. those are two different things. of course, i strongly condemn the exploitation. but i want to remind you that we must also be aware that social rights have a cost. it costs companies, it costs countries. the answer to how to ensure equal social status would be simple if there was a single european source from which to finance social rights. until that happens, of course, we're in the position we're in.
the lack of confidence is the state of affairs in the union, the loss of european identity. many europeans have forgotten it or do not know it at all. why would you do that? because too many politicians and leaders have forgotten what european values are, and because we have not consistently reacted to violations of rights and values outside or within our borders, because we do not offer, as you said, a social europe. our vision must be based on people and in no way can it contain secret it agreements of the type that lower the standard of the europeans. we cannot allow ourselves to be completely consumed by the issue of security while neglecting the concerns of europeans about privacy. the union solidarity corps, mr juncker, is a wonderful idea for engaging young people and helping people in need. with ideas like these, the union will straighten its back again. we need optimism, pessimism is not the answer. and we need to make all of us in leadership positions aware that the coming months are crucial and that we will be held accountable if europe succumbs to populism and nationalism.
in writing. in his annual state of the union address to the european parliament, president juncker tried to bridge the crisis facing the community after the many crises and challenges of recent months by focusing on a few selected tasks. the common denominator of his speech was a call for more solidarity, unity, social justice, responsibility for one's own security and concern for the future of the younger generation. i am not sure that he has rightly avoided the crisis in relations with russia, the divergence in assessments of the eu's strategy for relations with turkey and the situation in syria and the middle east as a whole. i support his idea of the need for a strong eu foreign minister to sit at the negotiating table when the most heated international negotiations are being held. i also think that the idea of closer eu integration in the field of defence and security should be given sufficient attention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the swiss confederation, of the other, on the free movement of persons, relating to the participation of the republic of croatia as a contracting party to the agreement following its accession to the european union. the accession of croatia, romania and bulgaria to the european union has enlarged the internal market. the 2002 agreement gave eu and swiss citizens the right to enter, reside and work in their territories, and established rules between the union and switzerland equivalent to those in the community legal order, namely the right to enter, reside, work, self-employment and study, the right to social security and the right to equal living, employment and working conditions with nationals.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a protocol to the eu-switzerland agreement on the free movement of persons (accession of croatia), as the eu's internal market has expanded further with the accession of romania, bulgaria and croatia, reaching almost 505 million people, making it even more important for switzerland. both croatia and switzerland will undoubtedly benefit politically, economically and culturally from the signing of the current protocol and the enlargement of the internal market, where free movement is of vital importance.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the swiss confederation, of the other, on the free movement of persons, relating to the participation of the republic of croatia as a contracting party to the agreement following its accession to the european union. the internal market and its enlargement bring similar benefits to both switzerland and the eu member states, as switzerland has repeatedly emphasised. this is also confirmed by the swiss analysis of the consequences of the suspension of the implementation of the bilateral agreements. croatia and switzerland will undoubtedly gain politically, economically and culturally from signing the current protocol iii and from the expansion of the internal market, where free movement is of vital importance.
in writing. ‒ the legal framework of the tripartite social summit for growth and employment, established by a decision of the eu council in march 2006, had to be updated due to the changes brought about by the lisbon treaty. the parliament's interim report adopted on this subject called for the institutionalisation of the practice of including the chair of the parliamentary committee on employment and social affairs in the tripartite social summit. parliament considered that the chairman of this committee should also have a legal basis for regular invitations to the tripartite social summit and access to information and materials. the president of the european commission and the president of the eu council thus sent a letter to parliament about a month ago expressing their agreement to the continued presence of the president of the committee at the summit, while hoping for parliament's swift approval. i myself supported this decision and the continued involvement of the chairman of the parliamentary committee in this matter, as it is good that parliament is also aware of the work of the tripartite social summit.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the tripartite social summit for growth and employment and repealing decision 2003/174/ec. the tripartite social summit for growth and jobs was established in 2003 by decision 2003/174/ec, formalising the practice of informal high-level meetings. because of the lisbon treaty, which institutionalised the european council and recognised the role of the tripartite social summit for growth and employment as part of the eu's social dialogue.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a tripartite social summit for growth and jobs, as it is designed to ensure a permanent exchange between the social partners and the eu institutions and to ensure that the social partners contribute to the eu's economic and social strategy. it will enable the social partners at european level to contribute to the various elements of an integrated economic and social strategy, including sustainable development aspects, through social dialogue.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a tripartite social summit on growth and jobs. i believe that a continuous exchange between the social partners and the eu institutions is essential for the development of a successful eu economic and social strategy from a sustainable development perspective.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on technical regulations for inland waterway vessels. at first reading, we supported the uniform application of the common technical regulations to vessels intended for inland navigation in the eu, with a view to ensuring a level of safety and efficiency in inland navigation. following successful negotiations between the european parliament and the council, we have before us a text without any amendments to the text at first reading.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for technical regulations for inland waterway vessels, as this will ensure a high level of safety and efficiency in inland waterway navigation. it also involves the rapid adaptation of standards to scientific and technical progress, taking into account standards developed by international organisations, in particular the european committee for the elaboration of standards for inland navigation (cesni).
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption of a european parliament and council directive on technical regulations for inland waterway vessels, amending directive 2009/100/ec and repealing directive 2006/87/ec. i support the establishment of a coordinated and consistent framework to ensure the same level of safety for vessels intended for inland navigation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the economic partnership agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the sadc countries, of the other part, which are parties to the gpa. the economic partnership agreement, which covers only trade in goods, development cooperation and trade and sustainable development provisions, but leaves the door open for negotiation of additional provisions, provides for positive discrimination for the sadc partner countries signatory to the agreements and grants them duty-free access to the eu market.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for an economic partnership agreement between the eu and the sadc countries implementing the cap, as i believe that this agreement has the potential to bring about profound positive changes and contribute to sustainable economic growth and deepening trade and integration within the region. the trade and partnership agreement can only be a small part of a wider strategy.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft council decision on the conclusion of an economic partnership agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the sadc countries implementing the gsp, of the other part. the current regional trade agreement, while focusing on development cooperation and trade and including provisions on sustainable development, leaves the door open for negotiations on additional provisions on services, investment, intellectual property, public procurement and enhanced provisions on sustainable development.
in writing. although the social partners submitted the harmonised agreement to the council very late, having already finalised it in 2013, it is commendable to have a final document regulating the situation for all fishermen employed on board fishing vessels registered in or flying the flag of eu member states and engaged in commercial fishing. the work is in difficult conditions, there is a much higher risk of occupational diseases and there are often unclear contractual relationships between employer and employee. this agreement is therefore more than welcome for all those involved in this arduous profession, and i support the directive by voting in favour of the resolution in the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a council directive on the implementation of the agreement between the general confederation of agricultural cooperatives in the european union, the european transport workers' federation and the association of national fisheries enterprise organisations in the european union. i support the resolution that because of the specific nature of work on board fishing vessels, workers in the fishing sector need special protection. the sector is experiencing a high number of fatal and non-fatal accidents. the agreement reached by the social partners and the commission proposal set out only minimum requirements, but it is up to the member states to decide what measures they will take.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a directive on the implementation of the convention on work in the field of fisheries, as i believe that workers in the fishing sector need special protection because of the specific characteristics of work on fishing vessels, as accidents are common in this sector. however, this hazardous working environment also presents a high level of risk and incidence of occupational diseases, as the sector is characterised by an unclear division between working time, rest and leisure, and fatigue, partly due to insufficient rest, has an impact on health and safety.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council directive implementing the agreement on the implementation of the work in fishing convention. the agreement underlines that workers in the fisheries sector require special protection, considering, among other things, the special characteristics of work on board fishing vessels, the high rate of fatal and non-fatal accidents, as well as the risk and incidence of occupational diseases. this agreement applies to all fishers employed on board a fishing vessel which is registered in, or flying the flag of, an eu member state and which is engaged in commercial fishing operations. i voted in favour because i believe that by incorporating the agreement of the social partners on the ilo work in fishing convention into eu legislation, the eu will be in a stronger position to promote its implementation in partner countries worldwide, thereby contributing to a fair and level playing field for the global fishing sector.
in writing. ‒ as the resolution states, workers in the fishing sector need special protection because of the specific characteristics of work on fishing vessels, as this sector is prone to a high number of fatal and non-fatal accidents, and the risk and incidence of occupational diseases are also much higher in this dangerous working environment than in other sectors. i therefore support the proposal for a directive which will thus contribute to a fair and level playing field in the fisheries sector and to combat the worst forms of exploitation of fishermen, such as forced labour, trafficking in human beings and child labour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the latest developments in poland and their impact on the fundamental rights enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. on 27 july 2016, the european commission issued a recommendation to poland in the framework of the rule of law procedure. the main concerns were related to the appointment of the members of the constitutional tribunal, the amendments to the law on the constitutional tribunal and the effectiveness of the constitutionality assessment of the new legislation. poland shall rectify the contested legislative decisions within three months. i support the resolution, which welcomes the commission's firm intention to pursue a constructive and fruitful dialogue with the polish government in order to find a rapid and concrete solution to the systemic threats to the rule of law mentioned.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the latest developments in poland and their impact on the fundamental rights of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, as declaration no 61 of the republic of poland on the charter of fundamental rights of the european union further emphasises that the charter in no way affects the right of member states to exercise a legislative function in the field of public morality, family law and the protection of human dignity and respect for the integrity of the human person.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the latest events in poland and their impact on the fundamental rights enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the eu operates on the assumption of mutual trust that member states respect democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, as enshrined in the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and the charter of fundamental rights. in this context, i agree with the call on the commission to pursue a constructive and fruitful dialogue with the polish government in order to find a rapid and concrete solution to the recent events.
in writing. the european parliament has traditionally enjoyed good relations with tunisia, which have only improved year on year. this country is a sort of shining example in north africa that shows that it is possible to benefit from good bilateral relations with the european union. the eu also offers assistance in reforming certain sectors and opens its markets to tunisian products. what is particularly important for them is that we also provide them with technical assistance in the field of regional funds and share experience in reducing disparities between regions. regional cooperation between countries in the region is also being strengthened. tunisia is a good example of this practice, where the eu is helping to improve the economic and social situation. this will significantly reduce migratory trends as well as the rise of radical political cells that could pose a security threat in the future. that is why i support and vote for the report.
in writing. ‒ the report on relations with tunisia was hard to anticipate. unfortunately, after the 2011 overthrow of the then president ben ali, there was little talk about tunisia in the eu. since then, the country has undergone a major political transformation, but tunisia still faces major challenges - from terrorism to political fragmentation and socioeconomic inequality. the eu should therefore lend more strength in this context to help this unique process of democratisation in the arab world. this report therefore provides an opportunity for the eu to re-focus its attention on tunisia and to indicate future deeper and more effective cooperation between them. the report reiterates the eu's past commitments to assist tunisians in their political transition, calls for the eu to step up its assistance to tunisia, including financial assistance to civil society, and stresses the need to respect human rights in the country's reform process. i supported the report because i believe that good eu cooperation with neighbouring regions is needed and because it is well prepared.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on eu-tunisia relations in the current regional context. i support the call for the eu and the member states to mobilise and better coordinate the substantial technical and financial resources that will provide concrete support to tunisia. as one of the eu's priority countries under the european neighbourhood policy, tunisia is a model of peaceful democratic transition in the arab world and its consolidation is crucial for the stability of the entire region. in the light of the migrant and refugee crisis, the stability of the entire region is all the more important for the european union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on eu-tunisia relations in the current regional context. tunisia is currently facing difficult social and economic conditions as well as security challenges, which are mainly due to the situation in libya. these developments, coupled with the terrorist attacks in tunisia, have had a serious impact on tourism. the tunisian economy is heavily dependent on foreign investment, tourism and exports of products to the eu, and the economy can only thrive if it allows democracy to develop further. the european union and its member states should continue to seek to cooperate with the tunisian people and government in order to promote common interests, including trade, investment, tourism, culture and security.
in writing. ‒ tunisia is currently facing security challenges and a difficult socioeconomic situation, largely due to the situation in libya. this situation and the terrorist attacks are hurting tourism and foreign investment. the eu can improve its political dialogue with tunisia, given that the democratic process has been consolidated, by taking better account of the interests and priorities of this important partner and thereby achieving the objective of stability, which is why i supported the resolution.
in writing. wishing to improve the definition of 'social dumping', which should not be confused with dumping in the areas of trade policy and the labour sector, i supported the report on social dumping in the eu. the fact is that social rights vary considerably across the eu, as legislation is regulated by national legislation. this is of course a very different situation, and companies are naturally taking advantage of the internal market and the legislation that suits them best in this area. if we want a properly functioning internal market, including in the area of free movement of labour, we must strive to harmonise the social rights and obligations of workers, and we must also regulate specific cases such as workers at sea, posted workers, transport operators, etc. that is why i support the rapporteur's proposal for the adoption of a protocol on social policy, which would ensure that social rights take precedence over economic freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report that sets a common definition of social dumping, as it was necessary to address the lack of a shared definition that has led to misunderstandings and misperceptions in debates across the eu member states. hence, the adopted report is of key importance to combat cases of abuse and circumvention of the existing european or national rules. i anticipate better enforcement of existing rules; more strengthened and efficient cooperation between national competent authorities as well as the identification and elimination of existing legal loopholes, which should all result in fairer conditions for workers.
in writing. ‒ social dumping is currently the biggest problem caused by deliberate exploitative practices. these are numerous examples of the abuse of european and national legislation to obtain benefits at the expense of one of the social security systems. the commission and the member states must step up their action in this area, ensure effective controls and improve the exchange of information between member states. the report links social dumping to undeclared work, hidden employment relationships and abusive cases of posting to other member states, while describing the wide range of exploitative practices that arise in relation to national legislation and european rules. the sectors most 'hit' are agriculture, construction, services, transport, health and the like. it is precisely because of the abuses which in this case take place on the territory of several countries at the same time that the member states must strengthen cooperation and organise their inspection bodies in such a way that they cooperate closely with each other in such cases. particular attention is also paid to companies which are postal mailers and serve only the purpose of exploiting certain differences between the social systems of the member states with long-term damage to employees. a special chapter is also devoted to transport, where such practices occur most frequently. i believe that such exploitative practices at the expense of our social systems and our employees must be prevented, and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on social dumping in the european union. in the social field, the european union has not yet achieved full harmonisation, and we need to harmonise policies where possible. in recent years, we have seen an increasing trend of social dumping, which has a negative impact on the competitiveness of enterprises. however, there is still a great deal of uncertainty and confusion in the area of social dumping, as we still lack a clear and generally accepted definition. as an alternate member of the committee on transport and tourism, i support the committee's view that member states should start implementing fully, effectively and non-discriminatorily all social legislation applicable to the transport sector and should increase the number of effective controls, in particular as regards driving and rest times.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on social dumping in the eu, because undeclared work and sham self-employment can distort competition, lead to precarious jobs and affect worker protection and the overall quality of jobs. in the eu, on the one hand, we have the free movement of people, who can travel and work anywhere in the union and in different forms of employment. on the other hand, we have companies operating in the single market and are put in a position where they have to ensure competitiveness. we also have countries within the european union that cannot guarantee the same level of social rights because their budgets cannot afford it. we have to distinguish between exploiting employees, on whom some employers profit because of their own greed for greater profits, and ensuring equal income and equal social status. we have to realize that social rights cost money, and that's what a lot of people don't want to see. the answer to how to ensure equal social status would be simple if there was a single european source from which to finance social rights. until that happens, we will continue to face the fact that social rights will be different within the european union. we need to help companies and design our proposals in such a way that we create an environment where the differences are as small as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on social dumping in the european union. the concept of social dumping covers a number of instances of deliberate harmful practices and abuses of existing european and national legislation, which create unfair competition through the unlawful reduction of labour and operating costs and lead to violations of workers' rights and exploitation. i agree that it is essential to ensure a level playing field and fair competition throughout the eu and to eliminate social dumping. i believe that labour inspectorates and trade unions have a key role to play in strengthening workers' rights and defining a decent wage in accordance with the regulations. it is therefore necessary for member states to increase efficiency and to provide adequate human and other resources for their supervisory authorities, including social and/or labour inspectorates, agencies and liaison offices.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on a commission delegated regulation supplementing regulation (eu) no 1095/2010 of the european parliament and of the council on key information documents on retail and insurance-based investment products (priips) by laying down regulatory technical standards on the presentation, content, review and revision of key information documents and the conditions for fulfilling the requirement to provide such documents. information on investment products should be comparable for consumers. this is the only way to promote a level playing field in the market, regardless of the types of financial intermediaries that prepare or market them. this resolution opposes the commission's delegated regulation and calls on the commission to submit a new proposal.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on a commission delegated regulation supplementing regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 on key information documents on retail and insurance-based investment products (priips) as i believe it is essential that consumer information on investment products is comparable in order to promote a level playing field in the market, regardless of the types of financial intermediaries that prepare or market them. without those changes, there is a risk that the rules in the delegated regulation would be contrary to the spirit and purpose of the legislation, which would provide clear, comparable, understandable and non-misleading information on priips for retail investors.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the commission delegated regulation supplementing regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 on key information documents on retail package investment products and insurance-based investment products (priips). as the resolution states, it is essential that information for consumers on investment products is comparable in order to promote a level playing field in the market, irrespective of the types of financial intermediaries that prepare or market them. the delegated act adopted by the commission contains errors in the methodology and there is therefore a serious risk that the implementation of this element in the key information document will be non-coordinated across the single market. i agree with the call to the commission to submit a new delegated act.
apple has very creative phones and electronics, and apparently very creative accountants. like other big corporations, who, of course, take advantage of this senseless tax war between some countries, who, of course, take advantage of the multinationals. so of course, congratulations, commissioner, and i think we could also advise mr juncker on how to present more ambitiously measures to combat tax avoidance. we need a more ambitious tax reform to prevent such cases in the future, and it is good that we have started in earnest for once. i think that lists and transparency in tax evasion should also be introduced, as well as a common consolidated basis for corporate income tax. it is estimated that tax avoidance costs the european commission around €70 billion a year, which is far too much.
it is very important that smes are high on our priority lists, but whenever we discuss them in the european parliament, we run into very similar problems. i agree with my colleagues that credit is still the most important source of finance for smes, but i would like to highlight another aspect or another source: the use of funds from european projects. some smes are unable to compete in tenders because they cannot meet all the bureaucratic requirements, for example, because they do not have a research and development department or something similar. i therefore call on the commission to include in the following proposals and dossiers, in relation to smes, the activity of business hubs, centres which could be shared by several smes. this would remove many barriers and make it easier for many companies to access direct financing. but i have another view of smes: we need to create an environment for a more dynamic labour market. smes are very important employers. and another thing, entrepreneurship and entrepreneurial opportunities need to be promoted at the stages of the education process.
i welcome that question, of course... (the microphone was turned off for a few moments.) it's right that we start talking about this very intensely and that we deal more with social issues than financial ones. a decent life is not possible if one does not have enough income to survive. but in all this, in our discussions, we must also bear in mind that the guarantee of a minimum income is a burden, it can be a burden for the state or a burden for the company. but countries are different in their development, they have different economic strengths, and it is therefore particularly important for them to be treated individually and, of course, to allow for this rule of subsidiarity. it is also important that the ratio between the minimum income and the minimum wage is appropriate. but a minimum income can only be a temporary instrument that cannot replace the need for more good jobs with decent pay for work.
non-discrimination, tolerance, justice and gender equality are the words we wish to describe our society. in europe, despite considerable progress in recent years, discrimination is unfortunately still present, especially in employment, which of course has negative effects on all aspects of life, and in particular has negative effects not only on society as such but on the individual. i believe that in order to combat this problem, we need to strengthen dialogue between governments, dialogue with civil society and, of course, above all, dialogue with the social partners. at the same time, efforts should be made to increase public awareness of the problem. each member state must ensure that its legislation is systematically harmonised and that the principle of equal treatment is consistently applied.
i have been following the work of this fund for a very long time and of course i have also been following how it has changed in that time. from the initial, more rigid rules, which allowed funds to be allocated only to the largest enterprises or to employees who were laid off in the largest enterprises, it is now possible to obtain funds from the fund even for the self-employed. but of course we haven't done enough. more adjustments are needed, because i agree with my colleague who pointed out earlier that smes, which we talk about a lot in this parliament, still do not have equal access to these funds. companies, and of course, countries in particular, have benefited from this fund. i regret that from my country, slovenia, only one application has been successfully resolved so far. i hear there are a lot of problems, and i call on the commission to make all these procedures a little less bureaucratic so that people can get access to the funds more easily.
in writing. ‒ in order to alleviate the current migration crisis and to ease the pressure on member states, meps approved by a majority the amendments to the report on the proposal for a regulation on the european passport for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals. by harmonising the format of the travel document, member states will reduce red tape, the number of versions, costs and waiting times, and we hope that this will also strengthen the recognition of this document in third countries. better protection against counterfeiting and forgery and improved exchange of information between countries on their issuance are essential improvements in this process, and my support for this document is therefore also there.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a european passport for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals. the recent refugee and migrant crisis and the various security threats call for action. the return of those not eligible for international protection in the european union and the improvement of the return of irregular migrants are essential for the integrity of the eu asylum system. i support the need to fundamentally change the formats and implementation of the existing eu standard travel document in order to increase its recognition in third countries and its effectiveness. this will reduce red tape, the number of versions, costs and waiting times for member states.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a passport for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals, as i believe that improving the rate of return of irregular migrants is an essential step towards ensuring the integrity of the asylum system, cooperation between member states and third countries and maintaining citizens' trust in the eu. by harmonising the format of the travel document, member states will reduce red tape, the number of versions, costs and waiting times, and it is also hoped that this will also increase the recognition of the document in third countries. ensuring the exchange of information between member states on the issuance of travel documents and on individuals listed as illegally staying third-country nationals without a valid travel document is essential in order to increase the mutual recognition of asylum decisions across the european union and to prevent secondary movements of unsuccessful asylum seekers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a european travel document for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals. the return of those who do not qualify for international protection within the eu must be a priority for the european union. improving the rate of returns for irregular migrants is vital for the integrity of the eu’s asylum system, for cooperation between eu member states and third countries, and for maintaining the confidence of eu citizens. i voted in favour because i believe that the eu needs to ensure higher technical and security standards, in particular as regards safeguards against counterfeiting and falsification.
in writing. ‒ i voted for a passport for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals. i consider that, while fully respecting their fundamental rights, the return of illegally staying third-country nationals is an essential part of the overall effort to ensure the credibility and proper and effective functioning of the union's migration policy and contributes to the reduction and deterrence of irregular migration. the european return passport should also contribute to reducing the administrative and bureaucratic burden on member states' and third-country administrations and to shortening the administrative procedures necessary to ensure the return and readmission of illegally staying third-country nationals.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, together with the european council and the commission, has prepared very interesting legislation for slovenia on how the prospectus must be drawn up when securities are offered for sale to the public or admitted to trading. the disastrous experience with the public sale of nkbm's shares and a few years later with the expropriation of the owners of subordinated bonds, which were apparently bought by completely uneducated citizens, shows that the average slovenian investor is very poorly informed about the risks of his investments. by harmonising the information in the presentation prospectuses and by laying down clear risk provisions, especially for small investors, we are likely to prevent many people from putting their hard-earned money into investments that are much riskier than they would like. i therefore fully support such legislation on the information of retail investors and supported the report in the vote in the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the prospectus to be published when securities are offered to the public or admitted to trading. with this regulation, we will take a step towards a capital markets union, giving businesses access to a more diverse source of capital anywhere in the european union, ensuring that markets work more efficiently and offering investors and savers opportunities to invest money more efficiently to boost growth and create jobs. the regulation will also ensure investor protection and market efficiency and strengthen the single capital market.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a prospectus to be published at the time of an offer to the public or admission of securities to trading, as the prospectus contains the relevant and necessary information that an investor would reasonably require in relation to an investment in securities. on the basis of that information, the investor may assess the assets and liabilities, financial position, business outcome, prospectuses of the issuer and of any guarantor, and the rights arising from such securities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the prospectus to be published when securities are offered to the public or admitted to trading. the aim of this regulation is to ensure investor protection and market efficiency, while enhancing the single market for capital. the provision of information, according to the nature of the issuer and of the securities, is necessary to enable investors to make an informed investment decision, and ensures, together with rules on the conduct of business, the protection of investors. i voted in favour because i believe that such information contributes to the proper functioning and development of securities markets.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the prospectus to be published when securities are offered to the public or admitted to trading. i believe that the regulation is an important step towards the creation of a capital markets union, i.e. ensuring that markets work more efficiently and offering opportunities for investors and savers to invest money more efficiently to boost growth and create jobs. i also consider that disclosure in the case of offers to the public or admission of securities to trading on a regulated market is essential for the protection of investors, as it removes the mismatch between investors and issuers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision amending the council decision of 22 september 2015 establishing provisional measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece. the proposed amendment provides for the transfer of 54000 applicants from italy and greece as a transfer of an applicant from the territory of the member state responsible for examining his or her application for international protection to the territory of the member state of relocation. relocation shall not include the transfer or reception of persons from a third country in need of international protection to the territory of a member state. the commission is also proposing to amend the proposal to make the regular review of the situation regarding the mass arrival of third-country nationals in the member states not a task of the european commission but a task of the european border and coast guard agency.
in writing. ‒ asylum proposal: i supported the provisional measures for the benefit of italy and greece. as of 26 september 2016, 54 000 asylum seekers are to be relocated from italy and greece to the territories of other member states in the proportion set out in this decision (namely 12 764 applicants from italy and 41 236 applicants from greece), unless by that date the commission proposes, in accordance with article 4 (3), to allocate those relocations to other member states to beneficiaries facing emergency situations due to a sudden inflow of persons.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision amending council decision (eu) 2015/1601 of 22 september 2015 establishing provisional measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece. the report states that eu countries must honour their pledges to accept refugees relocated from greece and italy to relieve migratory pressure on these two ‘frontline’ countries. furthermore, it underlines that the need for emergency relocation from greece and italy to other eu member states is expected to remain high, pointing to the urgent humanitarian situation in greece and the risk of deterioration in italy. i voted in favour because i believe that these measures would, at the same time, discourage irregular entries by opening up legal and safe routes to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. i regret that the council did not take into account the legislative resolution of the european parliament that we adopted in july 2015. the council's approach is the opposite, weakens cooperation between the union's institutions and increases the democratic deficit for citizens. i support the amendment that the union, in defining and implementing its policies and activities, must ensure a connected and inclusive labour market that can eliminate the serious effects of unemployment and ensure decent working conditions throughout the union, including adequate wages, and adequate social protection in accordance with labour regulations.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states, as i believe that the european union, in defining and implementing its policies and activities, must ensure a connected and inclusive labour market that can eliminate the serious effects of unemployment and ensure decent working conditions throughout the union, including adequate wages and adequate social protection, in accordance with labour regulations, collective bargaining and the principle of subsidiarity. it is also essential to ensure a high level of education and training and to prevent discrimination on grounds of sex, race or nationality, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. the ‘europe 2020 strategy’ proposed by the commission should enable the union to turn its economy towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, accompanied by a high level of employment, productivity and social cohesion. the union is in need of holistic policies and public investments that will fight against unemployment and poverty. i voted in favour because i strongly believe that the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy in the employment and social area must remain a key objective of member states’ employment policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. i believe that the union must provide a connected and inclusive labour market that can eliminate the serious effects of unemployment and ensure decent working conditions throughout the union and for all. it must also enable the union to steer its economy towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth accompanied by high levels of employment, productivity and social cohesion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on oral questions on the eu strategic objectives for the 17th conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora, to be held from 24 september to 5 october 2016 in johannesburg, south africa. the accession of the european union to cites has made the eu's legal status under that convention more transparent to third countries that are parties to the convention. this will enable the european union to fully achieve its environmental policy objectives. the resolution also recalls that the commission, on behalf of the eu, can, by virtue of accession, represent the eu's coherent position on the functioning of the convention and can play a key role in the negotiations at the conferences of the parties.
in writing. ‒ motions for resolutions - i supported the key objectives for cites cop17 in johannesburg, as cites protected species are threatened with extinction and trade is prohibited. trophy hunting is unethical and unsustainable, and is a direct cause of biodiversity loss and endangered species.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the key objectives for the cites cop17 meeting in johannesburg. the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites), to be held in johannesburg (south africa) from 24 september to 5 october 2016 is the largest global wildlife conservation agreement in existence, with 181 parties, including the eu and its 28 member states. the aim of cites is to ensure that international trade in wild animals and plants is not a threat to the survival of the species in the wild. i voted in favour because i believe that the accession to cites of the european union has rendered the union’s legal status in respect of cites more transparent vis-à-vis third parties to the convention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the application of the postal services directive. the postal services sector in the european union has undergone a number of changes in recent years as a result of digitalisation. on the one hand, e-mail reduces the volume of letter mail, while on the other hand, online shopping increases the number of parcels and parcels. despite the different conditions in each member state, we need to promote and improve the quality and reliability of parcel delivery in the eu. in the postal services sector, we need market opening and competition to remove the many barriers to online trade in the eu that we are witnessing: high delivery costs, opacity, long delivery times and unclear liability in the event of a lost parcel.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to apply the postal services directive, as the implementation of the postal services directive has helped to open up domestic letter markets and competition. the postal services sector is constantly expanding through the use of information and communication technologies, which provide opportunities for innovation and allow for market expansion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the application of the postal services directive. the report underlines that the postal market is still an area of the economy with strong prospects for growth and increasing competition. it also points out that the universal service must evolve in response to the technical, economic and social environment and to the needs of users. i voted in favour because i believe that the postal services directive provides member states with the flexibility necessary to address local specificities and to ensure the long-term sustainability of universal service provision.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the application of the postal services directive. i believe it is important to achieve the common objective of the postal services directive to ensure the sustainable implementation of the universal service, also by calling on the member states to uphold high standards of professionalism, legal protection for employees, fair and non-discriminatory access to vocational training. it is also important to ensure universal service and to enable fair competition, accessibility, quality of service and user needs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on access to finance for smes and increasing the diversity of financing for smes in the capital markets union. small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), which account for two-thirds of private sector jobs across the european union, form the backbone of the european economy. access to finance for smes has therefore been a longstanding issue on the political agenda. the committee on budgets also stresses, inter alia, that the commission and the european central bank must recognise that access to finance is the second most serious problem facing smes. it is therefore essential that the eu budget, irrespective of their legal status, further facilitates access to finance and markets for these companies.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to increase access to finance for smes and the diversity of funding for these companies in the capital markets union, because european smes are very diverse and often operate in traditional sectors. there is also a growing number of new start-ups and fast-growing innovative companies. improving access to finance for smes should not, however, lead to lowering financial standards and regulations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on access to finance for smes and increasing the diversity of sme funding in a capital markets union. the report underlines the fact that micro enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises and mid-caps play an important role for the european economy in terms of employment and growth. however, it acknowledges the diversity of smes, including micro-enterprises and mid-caps, in the member states. the report recognises the challenges that smes face as a result of differences between member states and regions in terms of sme financing conditions and needs. i voted in favour because i believe that a diversified, well-regulated and stable financial services sector, offering a wide range of cost-efficient tailor-made funding options, best serves the actual funding needs of smes and the real economy, enabling long-term sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on access to finance for smes and increasing the diversity of financing for smes in the capital markets union. i believe that smes play an important role in employment and growth in the european economy, as smes in the eu account for 67% of all employment, 71.4% of the increase in employment (year 2014). financing for smes has suffered more than financing for large companies as a result of the crisis, and the euro area has also been confronted with, and to some extent, with, tightening of bank requirements for collateral loans.
in writing. ‒ i voted for a report on how best to exploit the potential for job creation in smes. i support the view of the committee on budgets that the eu budget should be used to promote long-term quality and skilled employment and the potential of smes to create decent and sustainable jobs. the committee on budgets therefore proposes that investment in research, innovation, qualified training and development should be increased in order to promote high-quality growth and the job-creating potential of european smes. it should be remembered that smes, providing two thirds of private sector jobs across the european union, are the backbone of the european economy.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on how best to exploit the job creation potential of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), as smes are important for strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion and contribute to smarter, more sustainable and inclusive growth. the sme sector is also important at regional and rural level. more and more jobs are unfilled due to low labour mobility and the inadequacy of some education and training systems in relation to the labour market situation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on how best to harness the job creation potential of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). the report emphasises that smes play an important role in strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion, while also contributing to smarter, sustainable and inclusive growth. in addition, it stresses the need for a regulatory environment that encourages investment that concurrently fosters sustainable growth and quality jobs. i voted in favour because i believe that self-employment and micro-enterprises are of vital importance for boosting innovation and entrepreneurship.
in writing. ‒ i supported a report on how best to exploit the potential for job creation in small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). i believe that smes are important for strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion and contribute to smarter, more sustainable and inclusive growth, both in rural and urban areas. job creation in smes is influenced by a number of internal and external factors, the latter being essential conditions such as manageable competition, manageable administrative burden and total production costs, and access to finance and the availability of skilled workers. for us, the member states that joined the eu after 2004, in particular, there is a brain drain, creating peripheral regions with a shortage of skilled workers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the application of the council directive on the general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation (employment equality directive). we welcome the fact that almost all member states have incorporated into their constitutions the general principle of equal treatment for different forms of discrimination. member states should remove the natural, social and political obstacles which effectively prevent the implementation of the principle of equality and restrict the freedom of european citizens. the concept of the universality, indivisibility and interconnectedness of human rights cannot be a mere legal principle, valid in theory rather than in practice, since the various aspects of human identity are treated separately in the existing legal instruments of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the application of the employment equality directive, as i believe that discrimination in employment is still present in the eu, which negatively affects all aspects of life and also has negative consequences for the individual. member states are required to ensure systematic harmonisation of legislation and the implementation of the principle of equal treatment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the application of council directive 2000/78/ec of 27 november 2000 establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation (‘employment equality directive’). the report stipulates that in defining and implementing its policies and activities, the union shall aim to combat discrimination based on sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. moreover, it points out that, according to the eu agency for fundamental rights, all forms of discrimination, including multiple and intersectional discrimination, to a great extent hinder the deployment of human capital and constitute a barrier to career development. i voted in favour because i am of the opinion that non-discrimination in the field of occupation and employment is only effective if discrimination is comprehensively combated in all areas of life.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the application of council directive 2000/78/ec of 27 november 2000 on general frameworks for equal treatment in employment and occupation (employment equality directive). i believe it is important that the european union should strive to combat discrimination in defining and implementing its policies and activities. non-discrimination in the field of occupations and employment is effective only if discrimination is combated comprehensively in all areas of life, by removing the obstacles which restrict freedom and equality and prevent the integral development of the human person and the effective participation of all workers in the political, social and economic fabric of the individual member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the activities, impact and added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund between 2007 and 2014. i support the initiative of the committee on budgets, which notes that the european globalisation adjustment fund can support or complement member states' employment and social policy measures, but cannot replace the basic measures and competences of national authorities and should therefore not replace national workers' income schemes. it also recalls that the member states are responsible for co-financing the egf measures in accordance with the provisions of national law and are obliged to implement the egf budget effectively.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the activities, impact and added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the period 2007-2014. the fund was designed to deal with emergencies by rapid intervention and short-term assistance in response to severe and unforeseen labour market problems. the aim is to contribute to smart, sustainable and inclusive economic growth and to promote sustainable employment by supporting redundant workers and preparing them for the new job.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the activities, impact and added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund between 2007 and 2014. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up to provide support for, and express its solidarity with, workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. the report emphasises the relevance of strong social dialogue based on mutual trust and shared responsibility as the best instrument with which to seek consensual solutions and common outlooks when predicting, preventing and managing restructuring processes. furthermore, it highlights that this would help to prevent job losses and therefore egf cases. i voted in favour because i believe that the current egf aims not only to support redundant workers but also to demonstrate solidarity towards those workers.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the activities, impact and added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the period 2007-2014. restructuring has become an increasingly common phenomenon over the past few years, with a strengthening in some sectors and a widening in others. i therefore support the european globalisation adjustment fund, which provides support for workers made redundant by major structural changes in world trade flows, and contributes to smart, sustainable and inclusive economic growth and promotes sustainable employment by supporting redundant workers and preparing them for the new job.
we are talking about the european union's relations with the largest group of countries in the world. we have a tremendous amount of important work ahead of us, and brexit, if it happens, will not make it financially stronger. the current relations and cooperation between the acp states and the european union have been and remain focused on strengthening universal values and objectives such as the promotion of human rights, democracy and sustainable development. we made the deal in coutonou in 2000 and we've revised it twice. developments in the years since the last review have shown, as has my experience on the ground in leading two european election observation missions in support of democracy in nigeria and kenya, that the starting points we share with our acp partners need to be concretised through more specific regional strategies and regional agreements that take better account of the changed political, economic and security situation. on the other hand, i very much agree with the emphasis in the report that cooperation should be in areas of common interest where mutual benefit could be expected, not only from an economic point of view, but also and above all in relation to peace and security, human rights, the rule of law, good governance, democracy, migration, the environment and so on. peace is a value that, in my view, remains the first development priority. we cannot successfully tackle poverty unless we have peace. it therefore seems to me that it makes sense for the acp and the european union to work together as a whole on this and other supporting values. in this context, i propose that in the future we devote even more energy to intercultural dialogue, which is still an underestimated opportunity for added value in polarized societies that need a higher level of internal cohesion for sustainable development. i'm grateful to colleague neuser and the shadow reporters for a job well done.
i returned from lebanon last week, where four million lebanese share a country with almost two and a half million refugees. among the refugees in lebanon today, there is still a quarter of palestinians who are second or third generation stateless. the rest are mostly syrians. more than half of them are children, including a third of the school-age population, but only 30 percent of them attend school. residence permits are too expensive, more and more refugees don't have... (the talk was continued in english, as there was no interpreter.) mr. president, i hear there is no interpretation. i'll make it short in english. i just wanted to say that last week i came from lebanon, and it was very shocking. a third of children are not going to school, and the reason is, for the most part, that they do not have residency permits. residency permits cost $200 per year, and 90% of refugees today do not simply manage to get them. so their parents are extremely afraid to send their kids to school, not to mention that private schools are impossible to reach. the situation is very critical, economically and politically, because of the war in syria. what is very worrying is the new policy of the lebanese government, which is urging us to recognize some parts of the country as safe, and send refugees back. i think this is completely unacceptable. i completely agree with my colleague: we have to ensure that the money gets there. but it's not only money that is crucial. it's extremely crucial that we create efficient policies on the ground so that in a highly corrupt environment money gets to where it's needed.
we talk a lot in this room about human rights, and certainly the right to food, to quality, healthy food, is a basic human right. that is why i strongly support all the programmes implemented by the european union, both in the form of humanitarian aid and development aid. i think it is time that we really focused this european union development aid in development aid on helping to develop small farming in the countries where there is the greatest food shortage, that is in africa, the farming that is, in a way, the basis for people to first of all get food, and secondly to develop jobs. education, exchange of experience, and here i think europe can do a great deal. because if we succeed in this problem, in this problem of food security, we will also partially solve the great problem of migration that we will face in the global format in the future.
member of the commission. – mr president, if we want to achieve the sustainable development goals we must pursue our efforts to eradicate undernutrition. the commission spent almost eur 500 million per year on nutrition interventions, representing 3.1% of its development aid in 2014. the european union is also addressing undernutrition through its humanitarian assistance. we had eur 700 million spent between 2011 and 2015. but we all must do more. we will continue keeping our development policy focus on nutrition and food security issues, as well as advocating further investment in nutrition by other donors and partner countries. we will explore with a strong movement the possible pledging conference on nutrition. we will continue also to explore other interventions, such as the social safety nets, as well as reflecting on the balance between nutrition-sensitive and nutrition-specific interventions. we will continue to coordinate with donors who focus on nutrition-specific interventions, as well as maximising the synergies and complementarities of our development and humanitarian responses. this development humanitarian collaboration has been further confirmed by the commission’s response to the food crisis generated by el niño climate change phenomenon. the commission allocated an additional eur 543 million this year, almost equally shared between humanitarian and development interventions. this is coherent with the resilience approach, which aims at meeting the more immediate needs of populations in food crisis while addressing the root causes of partner countries’ fragility and vulnerability. i am confident that the proposed resolution on nutrition of the european parliament, the nutrition action plan of the commission and the council conclusions on nutrition can help the european union improve nutrition and make undernutrition history, as foreseen in sustainable development goals agenda by 2030.
member of the commission. – mr president, i have to start by saying and reconfirming that the eu is strongly committed to the fight against illegal logging and the associated trade. the flegt action plan has built an effective global coalition against it, tackling both the supply and demand sides through trade measures, through development cooperation and through broad stakeholder engagement. our action plan tackles some of the real drivers of deforestation and forest degradation. but deforestation continues and its consequences are potentially catastrophic at many levels – for the local communities that depend on forests, for the ecosystems that they support and at the global level as we deplete one of the most effective carbon sinks that we have. we must continue this fight both through our own actions and in the new global dynamic of the 2030 agenda and the paris agreement. the honourable members are right to raise their concerns, and i welcome the interest of the parliament in the follow-up to the european court of auditors report. flegt has been the subject of two reviews in the past two years. eu support to timber production countries under flegt was reviewed by the european court of auditors, while the overall performance of the action plan was also independently evaluated. a basic finding is that flegt remains highly relevant and that the work carried out so far under the action plan is delivering significant results. forest governance has improved, particularly in targeted countries, while demand for illegal timber in the eu has been reduced. the design of flegt has also been found to be future proof. that being said, things have changed since the inception of the action plan. imports of tropical timber in the eu have fallen, whilst china has become the world’s largest market and global political attention has shifted to other drivers of deforestation such as the competition for land and to other drivers of climate change. the evaluation stressed that such changes may have an impact on the relevance of the action plan if not sufficiently addressed. that is why the commission has been considering opportunities to scale up efforts to combat deforestation through flegt but also through other instruments such as redd+ and the eu timber regulation. we have now commissioned a study to consider the feasibility of a comprehensive eu action plan on deforestation. the review of the court and of the independent evaluation have highlighted important implementation challenges and areas for improvement in the way the flegt action plan has been managed, particularly in relation to the support to the countries concerned, and have recommended adjustments. we are working to address these findings to a multiannual work plan with clear objectives, targets, timeframes and budget. this will redefine priorities geographically and thematically and will ensure more effective monitoring of progress, achievements and impact. flegt is our flagship priority under the global public goods and challenges programme of the european development cooperation instrument, but we should remember that the action plan is a joint initiative. it must draw on the combined strengths and capacities of the eu and of its member states. according to the evaluation, stronger commitment and more active support by more member states is needed. finally, the honourable members also asked about voluntary partnership agreements (vpas). as mentioned by paavo väyrynen, vpas are a central flegt element, and the commission has invested intensely in their negotiation and implementation through political dialogue, through stakeholder engagement and through capacity building. our colleague david martin also mentioned indonesia and yes, soon we will be launching indonesia’s flegt licensing, and hopefully ghana will follow soon after, hopefully next year. these efforts are yielding good results in those countries where there is willingness to implement the necessary reforms. the difficulty of putting in place these reforms should not be underestimated. there are often strong vested interests, benefiting from the status quo. we will, of course, continue to make all possible efforts to maintain political momentum in vpas and address the challenges with our partner countries.
on behalf of the ppe group. first of all, i would like to thank my colleagues for raising this very important question and of course also you, commissioner vella, for the answers you gave us at the beginning of this point. the european union is aware of the importance of the forest ecosystem, and that is why it has been dealing with the problem of illegal logging and trade in this wood since the 1990s, and as you said, even during these 25 years, things have changed significantly. i do not know, china is now emerging as the largest buyer, and in the meantime the european union has also committed, and this has been examined by the european court of justice, some 300 million euros of funds to improve forest management worldwide and to improve forest management on the basis of these findings and also of joint recommendations. besides the great biodiversity, which is one of the key problems in addition to the environmental damage, there is certainly a big problem in this area, the area of corruption and actually the inaction of the countries from which we come. so in a way, it's a little bit of a disappointment that we only have a few signed, namely the agreement with indonesia and a few agreements with african countries. i wish you all the best in this endeavour, because, as i have already said, i am very much in favour of solving this problem. these problems, whether we like it or not, will eventually come to our homes. let me just tell you my own experience from slovenia two years ago, when in the winter of 2004 after the great icefall we had a lot of damage, that is climate change, caused by various phenomena, a lot of damage, when almost half of the slovenian forest was forged into ice and as a consequence, two years after that, we feel also after a very hot year great consequences with the undergrowth, which now destroy the spruce forests. so the problem we're talking about seems very far away at first glance, and the consequences are very quickly felt on our own soil. so i support these efforts, in the direction you have mentioned, right here, at this point.
the honourable commissioner, the honourable mr president. i congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs on a job well done. the directive on the right to temporary legal aid for persons deprived of liberty in criminal proceedings was presented by the commission years ago, as the commissioner has already said. after difficult negotiations, an agreement was reached between the european parliament and the council only during the dutch presidency in june this year. as has been said, this is not the first eu directive on procedural rights, the area of personal security is gradually expanding in the european union and this is a good thing. i support the report as it provides common and minimum standards on the right to free legal aid for suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings where they are deprived of liberty and free legal aid for persons against whom european arrest warrant proceedings have been initiated. in my view, the text originally proposed by the european parliament was too optimistic, since it envisaged that the scope of that directive would be extended to cases where the persons concerned were not deprived of liberty. however, not all member states could shoulder this burden. the text now provides a more realistic scope and is therefore certainly better. on the other hand, i support extending this directive to the provision of regular, not just temporary, free legal aid, as this will at least attempt to ensure a fair trial throughout the criminal proceedings. this will strengthen mutual trust between member states in the justice systems. the provision providing for the possibility of recovery in cases of abuse by persons not entitled to regular free legal aid is also appropriate. this procedural rights directive is a step towards a fair trial in the european union, but the implementation of common minimum standards of the rule of law should also be given greater attention by the eu when it comes to questionable judicial, sometimes politically motivated, processes in some transition countries where even normal rule of law standards have not yet been reached.
in writing. i support the amendment of the proposal for a directive to recognise the right to free legal aid under the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and the international covenant on civil and political rights for those who do not have sufficient means to pay for legal aid themselves, where the interests of justice so require. the commission proposal will thus bring about a minimum level of free legal aid in all member states.
in writing. ‒ i was very pleased to support the proposed decision to conclude the paris agreement, which is a historic milestone in the fight against climate change. the entry into force and implementation of the agreement will mean an accelerated transition to a cleaner global economy, which recognises the importance of limited natural resources. but the final entry into force of the agreement means that we must finally move from words to action in mitigating the effects of climate change. the agreement calls for a halt to global greenhouse gas emissions and for climate neutrality beyond 2050. the key long-term objective of the agreement is to limit global warming to well below 2 °c compared to pre-industrial levels and to work towards limiting warming to 1,5 °c. at the same time, the agreement clearly emphasises the transition from fossil fuels to other sources, which in my view represents a great potential for the european, as well as for the slovenian, economy and for new jobs, especially in the field of the bioeconomy and the circular economy. the eu has been a leader in the fight against climate change for many years and in 2014 set itself an ambitious target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% by 2030 compared to 1990, to which eu member states have already formally committed themselves. this agreement only builds on those objectives.
in writing. ‒ the paris agreement – that’s what citizens understand and welcome. my hope is that the legally binding paris agreement is the beginning of a more sustainable earth balance!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the paris agreement adopted under the united nations framework convention on climate change. the paris agreement is an important milestone in the fight against climate change, as it is an ambitious, balanced, fair and legally binding agreement. i would like to see it signed as soon as possible by the european union, which is taking the lead in the fight against climate change. member states should therefore take the necessary measures to complete the ratification procedures by the end of 2016. this would demonstrate the european union's commitment to continue to play a leading role in the world in the fight against climate change.
in writing. ‒ i supported, on behalf of the european union, the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the paris agreement adopted on the basis of the united nations framework convention on climate change. the paris agreement is a historic milestone in the fight against climate change and in multilateral cooperation. this joint action is intended to help the world find the right direction and prevent dangerous climate change. the agreement recognises the need to halt the global growth in greenhouse gas emissions as quickly as possible and to achieve climate neutrality in the second half of this century.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the paris agreement adopted under the united nations framework convention on climate change. the paris agreement is a historically significant landmark achievement for combating climate change and for multilateralism. it represents an ambitious, balanced, equitable and legally binding agreement. this global action aims to put the world on track to avoid dangerous climate change. moreover, the agreement acknowledges that a global peaking of greenhouse gas emissions should be reached as quickly as possible and climate neutrality should be achieved in the second half of this century. i voted in favour because i believe that the implementation of the paris agreement will play a crucial contribution to global efforts to tackle climate change.
in writing. - i voted for the decision to ratify the paris agreement. i believe that this legally binding agreement will accelerate global efforts to move towards a climate-neutral economy and prevent dangerous climate change.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed decision to use the eu solidarity fund to provide aid to greece following last year's earthquake. the adoption of the decision will make available to greece a good eur 1,6 million in funds to deal with the aftermath of the earthquake which damaged 120 residential buildings and caused the death of two people. the remaining infrastructure and cultural facilities were also extensively damaged, and some of the most important tourist beaches on lefkada were destroyed. the total amount of damage was estimated at eur 66 million, which exceeds the threshold of 1,5% of regional gdp and thus meets the criterion for aid from the solidarity fund. it is also noted that the region concerned belongs to the category of less developed regions. as greece has already received eur 164.798 in march this year, 10% of the total, the remaining amount of the solidarity fund assistance to be paid amounts to eur 1.487.036.
in writing. ‒ the report on the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund provides for the mobilisation of part of the fund's resources for the purpose of addressing the consequences of several earthquakes that struck the ionian islands region in greece on 17 november 2015, in particular the island of lefkada, the northern parts of ithaca and kefalonia. the european union solidarity fund is designed to help a member state or a candidate country affected by a major disaster. the cost of the emergency activities, as defined in article 3 of the solidarity fund regulation, is estimated by the greek authorities at eur 52,374 million, of which eur 38 million relates to the transport sector and eur 7 million to the protection of cultural heritage. the commission has decided to grant the aid in the amount of eur 164,798 or 10% of the expected aid from the fund, as requested by greece, on 18 march 2016. the total amount of the proposed aid is eur 1 651 834. i support the idea of solidarity in cases like this, which is why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to greece following the earthquake that struck the ionian islands in november 2015. the earthquake killed two people, injured eight, and damaged 120 housing units. many buildings were damaged, as was the most important tourist beach on the island of lefkada. both the earthquake and the application meet all the criteria for the allocation of aid from the european union solidarity fund, and at the same time the region also falls into the category of less developed regions, which is why i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to use the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to greece following the earthquake that hit the ionian islands in november 2015. the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund to provide financial assistance in the event of a natural disaster in greece (the earthquake that struck the ionian islands, in particular the island of lefkada and the northern part of the islands of ithaca and kefalonia, on 17 november 2015). the total amount of aid is eur 1 651 834. this is the first decision to use the fund in 2016 and the proposed total amount of aid is in line with the provisions on the eu solidarity fund ceiling of eur 552 million set out in the mff regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund. the commission proposes mobilising the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to grant financial assistance relating to a disaster in greece (earthquakes affecting the ionian islands region) that occurred on 17 november 2015. the european union solidarity fund aims to enable the union to respond in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner to emergency situations in order to show solidarity with the population of regions struck by natural disasters. the fund is not to exceed a maximum annual amount of eur 500 000 000. i voted in favour because i believe that this aid will help communities in the ionian islands to restore infrastructure, reimburse the cost of emergency measures and cover some of the clean-up operations.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the decision to mobilise the european union solidarity fund, within the framework of the general budget of the union for the financial year 2016, to provide an amount of eur 1 651 834 for greece. on 5 february 2016, greece submitted an application to mobilise the fund, following the earthquake that struck the ionian islands in november 2015. i support the purpose of the european union solidarity fund, which enables the union to respond quickly, efficiently and flexibly to emergencies, thus demonstrating its solidarity with the population of areas affected by natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ i also supported the decision to use the globalisation adjustment fund, which finland had requested a few months ago, in order to reintegrate workers who had become redundant in microsoft, or formerly nokia, and its suppliers, into the labour market. the application concerns 1441 of the 2161 workers made redundant and amounts to eur 1 365 000. the redundancies were linked to large structural flows in information and communication trade, which result in increased employment in asia. nokia dominated the mobile phone market in the first decade of the 21st century, but was driven out by asian manufacturers using the android and ios operating systems. finland has been facing these problems for some time, as the nokia case affected the entire finnish electronics industry. in fact, following the sale of nokia to microsoft, the number of employees in finland alone decreased by 1100 in 2014 and a further 2300 people are expected to lose their jobs in 2015 and 2016 due to the restructuring of the phone production. eu assistance is therefore very important for re-employment and for helping displaced workers.
in writing. ‒ the globalisation adjustment fund has an annual budget of eur 150 million and provides assistance in cases where more than 500 workers are made redundant in a single company, in a single sector and in a single region, as a result of major structural changes in world trade. the assistance is reflected in job search, career guidance, education, retraining, mobility and the like. on 29 july 2016, the european commission adopted a proposal to activate the said fund for the benefit of finland to support the reintegration of workers made redundant in finland by microsoft and eight suppliers and related producers. the finnish government stated that the main reason for the above-mentioned redundancies was the declining share of microsoft in the mobile device market. the decrease in the number of employees is linked to the greater movements in world trade, with the number of employees in the it sector decreasing in the eu and increasing in the usa and china. support for finnish workers will take the form of six different services ranging from training to start-up capital for start-up companies. since the fund is working well and this is the situation for which it was set up, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the application submitted by finland microsoft. at microsoft mobile oy and eight suppliers and manufacturers in the post-production phase in finland, 2161 workers were made redundant as a result of the negative effects of globalisation, as reflected in the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows or the consequences of the global financial and economic crisis. since the application was complete and therefore microsoft mobile oy met all the conditions, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ proposal for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: i have supported the application egf/2016/001 fi/microsoft. on 29 july 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of finland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by microsoft and eight suppliers and manufacturers in the post-production phase in finland classified in section 62 of nace revision 2 (computer programming, consultancy and other related activities). the redundancies are linked to major structural changes in world trade flows resulting from globalisation, which has led to a decline in the share of eu jobs in the ict sector and an increase in the share of jobs in china and the usa.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (application from finland – egf/2016/001 fi/microsoft). the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) has been created in order to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. on 29 july 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of finland to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant in microsoft and eight of its suppliers and downstream producers in finland, operating in the nace rev. 2 division 62 (computer programming, consultancy and related activities). i voted in favour because i believe that the design of the coordinated package is compatible with the shift towards a resource-efficient and sustainable economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to provide financial assistance in the form of further education, training and business plan enablement for the redundant workers of microsoft in finland.
in writing. ‒ i had no reservations about supporting the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund requested by sweden to help tackle the problems of overwork at se/ericsson. despite the fact that ericsson, which is growing mainly in the software sector, still employs in europe, many hardware workers cannot be re-employed. the company is expanding its development outside europe. some eur 4 million from the globalisation adjustment fund will be allocated to counselling and career guidance, retraining, training and job search allowances, with 918 of the 1556 redundant workers participating in the programmes.
in writing. ‒ the globalisation adjustment fund has an annual budget of eur 150 million and provides assistance in cases where more than 500 workers are made redundant in a single company, in a single sector and in a single region, as a result of major structural changes in world trade. the assistance is reflected in job search, career guidance, education, retraining, mobility and the like. on 5 september 2016, the european commission adopted a proposal to mobilise the globalisation adjustment fund in respect of workers made redundant in connection with telefonaktiebolaget lm ericsson in sweden. union union also stated that ericsson continues to employ workers elsewhere in europe, but with very different skills and experience. the employment of workers in the hardware sector is thus almost non-existent in this company, as growth in this sector is taking place in asia. the fund's assistance would in this case comprise four different activities (career guidance, supporting employment, training, and financial support for jobseekers). the fund will provide approximately one third of the funds. this is a very similar situation to the finnish case, where the mobile telephony sector is also concerned. i believe that in such cases it is necessary to offer redundant workers support for re-entry into the labour market, and i therefore supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the application submitted by sweden ericsson. of the 1556 workers made redundant, 918 were eligible for a contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund. ericsson has been dealing with the negative effects of globalisation for two decades, with stagnating growth and increased competition from asian manufacturers reducing telecommunications equipment production. as the application meets all the criteria for the award of the european globalisation adjustment fund, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ proposal for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: i have supported the application egf/2016/002 se/ericsson. on 5 september 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of sweden to support the reintegration of workers made redundant in telefonaktiebolaget lm ericsson, operating in sectors classified in section 26 of nace revision 2 (manufacture of computer, electronic and optical products). ericsson still employs in europe, but only people with very different skills and skills, workers with knowledge in hardware production and development in general are not re-employed by the company.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to provide financial assistance to the workers made redundant by ericsson in sweden. the assistance to be co-financed by the egf shall cover: counselling and career guidance; protected and supportive employment and rehabilitation measures; education and training; and jobseeker's allowance.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution requesting the waiver of the immunity of mr jorgos gramatikakis. the case before the supreme court is due to an alleged breach of trust in the performance of his duties and in view of the fact that mr gramatikakis has waived his right to defend himself in accordance with article 9 (5) of the rules of procedure and in view of the fact that he has also requested the waiver of immunity in order to conclude a lengthy judicial procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the request for waiver of the immunity of giorgos grammatikakis. the request for waiver of the immunity of giorgos grammatikakis, forwarded on 1 april 2016 by the deputy prosecutor at the supreme court of the hellenic republic, concerns proceedings proposed by the rethymno public prosecutor for breach of trust in the performance of his duties, committed in conjunction with others, at rethymno, crete, over the period 2000-2002. the proposed proceedings are clearly unrelated to giorgos grammatikakis’s status as a member of the european parliament, given that they relate to his former position as rector of the senate of the university of crete. i voted in favour because i believe that the proposed proceedings do not concern opinions expressed or votes cast in the performance of the duties of the member of the european parliament in question within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's decision to request the waiver of the immunity of mr jorgos gramatikakis, since the waiver of immunity in respect of the criminal proceedings against him is not based on mr jorgos gramatikakis' status as a member of the european parliament or on an opinion or vote expressed or cast by mr jorgos gramatikakis in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the right to free legal aid. free legal aid is a sensitive subject, as there is no uniform interpretation of the right to a fair trial between member states and their judicial systems, and consequently no free legal aid. despite the longer time taken by the commission to prepare a proposal for a directive in this area, the proposal allows for a minimum level of free legal aid in all eu member states, which is reinforced by the amendments adopted by the european parliament. i also welcome the eligibility criteria for free legal aid, as they provide some clarity on the whole procedure. however, differences in the cost of legal proceedings between member states must also be borne in mind.
in writing. ‒ the directive on temporary legal aid for suspects or accused persons deprived of liberty and persons in european arrest warrant proceedings contains minimum harmonised rules on when and how member states are obliged to pay for legal representation in these situations. the report mentions in particular situations in which the member state will provide for the payment of legal representation when an individual cannot afford it and sets out minimum rules for such situations. this directive will harmonise the rules for determining cases in which an individual is entitled to legal aid throughout the eu. at the same time, exceptions are provided for covering minor offences, alcohol testing procedures and the like. the directive to which this report refers will be part of the wider context of legislative proposals by the european commission aimed at strengthening the procedural rights of suspects or accused persons. since the report envisages the harmonisation of rules and the introduction of common standards in this area, i have decided to support it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on temporary legal aid for suspects or accused persons deprived of liberty and persons in proceedings following a european arrest warrant. i support the amendment of the proposal for a directive to recognise the right to free legal aid under the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and the international covenant on civil and political rights for those who do not have sufficient means to pay for legal aid themselves, where the interests of justice so require. the commission proposal will thus bring about a minimum level of free legal aid in all member states.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on temporary legal aid free of charge for suspects or accused persons deprived of their liberty and for persons in proceedings based on a european arrest warrant. the commission proposal is a welcome step towards ensuring a minimum level of free legal aid in all member states. the proposal is limited to the right to temporary legal aid for suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings in which they are deprived of liberty and to the right to temporary legal aid and legal aid for requested persons in proceedings based on a european arrest warrant. the inclusion in the directive of a specific provision to take utmost account of the preferences and wishes of suspects or accused persons and requested persons in the choice of a lawyer providing free legal aid is particularly deserved.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on provisional legal aid for suspects or accused persons deprived of liberty and legal aid in european arrest warrant proceedings. according to article 82 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), judicial cooperation in criminal matters in the union shall be based on the principle of mutual recognition of judgements and judicial decisions. the implementation of this principle presupposes that member states put trust in each other’s criminal justice systems, including in the manner in which the rights of suspects of accused persons are safeguarded. in practice, however, national practices vary in this respect. for those who are lacking the necessary financial means, only legal aid can make the right to access to a lawyer effective. i voted in favour because i believe that the proposal of the commission is a welcome step in ensuring a minimum level of legal aid in all member states.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on temporary legal aid establishes common minimum rules on the right to legal aid for suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings and persons subject to european arrest warrant proceedings (wanted persons), irrespective of their legal status, nationality or citizenship. the proposal for a directive supports the fundamental rights and principles recognised by the charter and the echr, in particular the right to an effective remedy and the right to a fair trial, the presumption of innocence and the right of defence. in the light of the above, i believe that the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on temporary legal aid will strengthen the procedural rights of suspects, accused persons or requested persons in criminal proceedings and i therefore supported it.
in writing. ‒ the control of trade in torture products has been needed for a long time and i am pleased that we have finally voted on the proposal for a regulation which seeks to regulate this area in the most appropriate way. i supported the motion without reservation. the manufacture and sale of torture equipment and its use are among the most reprehensible things that must be strictly controlled and severely punished. i am therefore convinced that consistency must be ensured in eu export controls for military equipment, firearms and equipment for torture. i also welcome the commission's proposals to prevent the use of proven medical products for lethal injection. in order to ensure effective control of this area, it is also necessary to monitor adequately the implementation of the commitments of the member states, including the obligation to report and exchange information through a secure encrypted system.
in writing. ‒ the export control mechanism was first established at european level in 2005 by regulation no 1236/2005 and has contributed to the respect of human rights in third countries. the new regulation will further extend this control mechanism, while filling major gaps in the existing controls on exports of products that could be used for capital punishment, torture or other similar treatment and punishment. the report also includes a ban on the transit of the products in question and a ban on the advertising and promotion of products prohibited for export. under the new regulation, member states will be required to provide information on the controls they have carried out on trade in these products, using national preventive mechanisms established under the un convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. i support the report and the proposed regulation, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the council regulation on trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the prevention of torture regulation, which brings controls on goods and activities used for torture purposes, will make a significant contribution to reducing these atrocities. i support the legislative update that will contribute to the updating of the checklists and the right mix of eu legislation to prevent and prohibit the production and use of, and trade in, goods for torture.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 on trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the torture prevention regulation contributes to the eu's long-standing policy of abolishing the death penalty worldwide and preventing torture. it is important to ensure an appropriate mix of eu legislation and administrative, legal and external measures to prevent and prohibit the production, use and trafficking of goods for torture and to effectively control goods with potentially lethal and inhumane uses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 concerning trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the ‘anti-torture regulation’ (ec) no 1236/2005 is a unique instrument that contributes to protection of human rights via controls on items and activities that are used for or could be misused for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the ‘anti-torture regulation’ contributes to the long-standing eu policy of eliminating the death penalty worldwide, and of preventing torture. it helps achieve these goals by combining prohibitions with licensing requirements for trade in listed goods. i voted in favour because i believe that it is of crucial importance to ensure a right mix of the eu legislative, administrative, judicial and external measures to prevent and prohibit the production, trade and use of torture goods and effectively control items with potential lethal and inhumane uses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 concerning trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. i consider it important to control trade with third countries in goods that could be used for capital punishment or for torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the warnings of undertakings that controls should not impede legitimate trade are also justified. it is therefore necessary to maintain a balance in the implementation of the regulation between the interest of undertakings in the smooth flow of legitimate trade and the control of the possible use of certain products for capital punishment, torture or other cruel treatment or punishment.
in writing. ‒ i also supported the proposed decision on the europol-china strategic cooperation agreement. cooperation in the exchange of information on strategic analysis, criminal investigation procedures and crime prevention methods, training activities and advice and support in individual criminal investigations will undoubtedly contribute to the reduction or prevention of organised crime between europe and asia. it should be noted that the agreement does not involve the exchange of personal data. europol's cooperation with china is important due to the fact that china is increasingly important as a country of origin, destination and transit in the fight against organised crime, in particular trafficking in human beings, drug trafficking, counterfeiting and infringements of intellectual property rights, money laundering, etc.
in writing. ‒ europol assists eu member states in the fight against organised crime. as organised crime simply does not stop at eu borders, cooperation with other countries around the world and international organisations is of paramount importance. while such cooperation is welcome, agreements need to take into account the partner country's criminal law enforcement practices and the related respect for human rights. the parliament's report proposing the conclusion of such an agreement with china provides for the exchange of operational and technical information, including personal and confidential information. according to europol, china is becoming increasingly relevant for the prosecution of organised crime, as in many cases it is a country of origin, destination or transit for various criminal activities. the problem with the proposed agreement is that china does not respect human rights in the area of crime prosecution, but at the same time defines criminals and terrorists differently. recently, china has detained as many as 280 human rights activists and lawyers, and some 40 are still being held on suspicion of representing an organized criminal group. at the same time, there are laws being passed that require all online companies in china to have a chinese cyber policeman in their company to monitor the "spread of rumors". because of the controversial chinese methods of prosecuting organised crime, i have decided to vote against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by europol of the strategic cooperation agreement between the ministry of public security of the people's republic of china and the european police office (europol). the strategic cooperation agreement between europol and china will result in the exchange of expertise data, status reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures, but not the exchange of personal data. therefore, any concerns regarding the protection of personal data and the processing of such data are redundant. i support the conclusion of the agreement, as china is important in the field of organised crime as a country of origin, destination and transit, as confirmed by interpol.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal by europol for a draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion of a strategic cooperation agreement between the ministry of public security of the people's republic of china and the european police office (europol). europol's cooperation with china appears necessary from an operational point of view. europol states that china is increasingly important as a country of origin, destination and transit in the fight against organised crime, such as facilitation of illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings, drug-related crime, counterfeiting of euro, infringement of intellectual property rights, corruption in sport, as well as activities related to cybercrime and money laundering. in addition, china is a haven for several highly influential organized crime groups.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by the european police office (europol) of the agreement on strategic cooperation between the ministry of public security of the people’s republic of china and europol. this agreement excludes the exchange of personal data. the information exchanged could include specialist knowledge, general situation reports, results of strategic analysis, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime-prevention methods, training activities, and the provision of advice and support in individual criminal investigations.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by europol of the strategic cooperation agreement between the ministry of public security of the people's republic of china and the european police office (europol). according to europol, china is a haven for several highly influential organized crime groups. i therefore believe that operational cooperation with china to prevent and combat organised crime, terrorism and other forms of serious crime is essential for an effective security policy in europe and the world.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on strengthening relations between the african, caribbean and pacific group of states on the one hand and the eu on the other, as this is an important partnership in which the eu has a key role to play. europe must continue to provide a wide range of assistance to these countries, as 80% of the world's least developed countries are located in these regions. development aid to reduce migratory pressures from these countries, especially african ones, to the eu is, in my view, crucial both to create more favourable and safer living conditions in these countries and to sustain the flow of economic migrants to europe. the partners of the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states and the eu must devote all their energies to combating and eradicating poverty and inequality, and must also commit to strengthening sustainable development. cooperation should be based primarily on mutual benefits for the partners, in particular with regard to peace and security, human rights and the rule of law, migration, the environment and climate change. i sincerely hope that cooperation will bring results and thus greater prosperity to countries that have been struggling for many years with poverty, hunger and political instability.
in writing. ‒ the acp-eu relations and cooperation so far have been and remain geared to strengthening universal values and objectives such as the promotion of human rights, democracy and sustainable development. my experience on the ground, leading two european election observation missions in support of democracy in nigeria and kenya, suggests that the starting point needs to be concretised through more specific regional strategies and regional agreements that take better account of the changed political, economic and security situation. cooperation should take place in areas of common interest where mutual benefit can be expected, not only from an economic point of view, but also and in particular in relation to peace and security, human rights and the rule of law, good governance and democracy, migration, the environment, climate change and other areas related to the well-being of the population. peace is a value that, in my view, remains the first development priority. we cannot successfully tackle the problem of poverty unless we have peace. it therefore seems to me that it makes sense for the acp and the eu to work together as a whole in support of this and other universal values. in this context, i propose that we devote even more energy to intercultural dialogue in the future.
in writing. ‒ the report deals with the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, on the one hand, and the european community and its member states, on the other. it is the most comprehensive partnership agreement between developed and developing countries in the world and expires in 2020. for this reason, this report advocates the continuation of this agreement under a new structure, which is simply too low-ambition in line with the report's guidelines. the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of states is dysfunctional in terms of decision-making, as decisions must be taken by consensus, which is rare. also politically, the group exists almost exclusively because of eu funding, political dialogue between the group's countries is often very limited, and the partnership between the eu and the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states is unbalanced, as the eu can exert pressure on this group of countries due to its political coherence. the greens are therefore seeking a more open approach to partnership. it would also be good to consider replacing the existing agreement with individual agreements between the eu and each of the three regions involved. for all the reasons i have outlined, i did not support the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the future of acp-eu relations after 2020. cooperation between african, caribbean and pacific countries has so far proved very welcome and necessary. a partnership based on fundamental values and principles such as respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, democracy based on the rule of law, and transparent and accountable governance. i support the opinion of the committee on budgets, which points out that the european development fund should finally be included in the budget, but only with clear guarantees for the targeting of funds for acp-eu cooperation and the maintenance of the level of financing.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the future of acp-eu relations after 2020. acp-eu cooperation is a valuable and unique achievement that has strengthened the ties between the peoples, countries and parliaments of the acp and the eu over the past 40 years. the acp states have clearly demonstrated their desire to take joint action, we stress that a new structure is essential to enhance cooperation and adapt to new challenges, preserving those parts of the acp-eu legal order that are inherently universal, such as the commitment to human rights and gender equality, human development, good governance and democracy, respect for the rule of law and the exchange of best practice within a common framework, while the bulk of the work must be done in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, which means that it must be done through regional agreements tailored to specific regional needs and the mutual interests of the eu and individual regions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the future of acp-eu relations beyond 2020. the overarching objective of the cotonou agreement is reducing and eventually eradicating poverty, consistent with the objectives of sustainable development and the gradual integration of the acp countries into the world economy. over 80% of the world’s least developed countries (ldcs) are from acp regions, which gives particular relevance to the eu-acp partnership. however, the numerical strength of the acp and eu member states has not sufficiently translated into joint action in global fora. the report underlines that acp-eu cooperation is a valuable and unique achievement that has strengthened bonds between acp and eu peoples and countries and their parliaments throughout the last 40 years. it equally emphasises that the future of acp-eu relations should be based on a new reflection on the potential and obstacles ahead for eu-acp cooperation. i voted in favour because i believe that in order to improve the effectiveness of cooperation and adapt it to new challenges, a new structure must be adopted that maintains those parts of the acp-eu acquis that are universal in nature, such as a commitment to human rights and gender equality, human development, good governance and democracy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the future of acp-eu relations after 2020. as the report states, acp-eu cooperation is a valuable and unique achievement that has further strengthened the ties between the peoples, countries and parliaments of the acp and the eu over the past 40 years. i therefore believe that the future relationship between the eu and the acp countries must adapt to the political, structural and demographic changes of recent years in order to achieve the sdgs to a greater extent and to effectively eradicate poverty.
high salaries and post-employment benefits for commissioners, members of parliament, judges and others have also always been a deterrent to lobbying and conflicts of interest. as it turned out for many commissioners, neelie kroes, karla de gucht, not to mention barroso, it's obviously not important, moreover: barroso sits among the bilderbergers, kroes has devised an entire company in a tax haven. how very competitive. what an example for the citizens. two years ago, a citizen sent me a question in disgust about vivian reding's conflict of interest, which is now among us. according to the ethics committee of the european commission, this conflict did not exist. just like there's no punishment for ireland and apple in the end, because nobody's responsible for anything anymore. and tell me, dear colleagues, is it really strange that the european union no longer enjoys any respect at all in the face of such behaviour?
in this fight against conflicts of interest, we all need to be decisive, the commission as well as parliament and the other competent authorities. and even these cases that we're talking about today, that we've talked about in the past, they're coming from both the bahamas leaks and the panama papers. but what's interesting is that these cases were brought to light with the help of journalists, with the help of so-called whistleblowers. perhaps we are not sufficiently aware of the role of whistleblowers and are not protecting them adequately. i think there is also a relevant criticism here that we have not done enough to protect whistleblowers and that, in addition to this protection, of course, we also need to strengthen the so-called code of conduct, including the rules that apply to conflicts of interest. and so we have bodies that should already be working in these areas, and there can be some justified criticism here, including olaf. and i think that we all need to do more in this area.
in writing. in the first half of the year, the society of investigative journalists revealed to us the first set of documents in the field of tax evasion and the flow of money into tax havens. she was on strike in panama at the time. we recently had another revelation. this time in the bahamas, with thousands of names of individuals who have used the bahamas to evade paying taxes. the list of persons also includes former commissioner for competition neelie kroes. and it seems that she had neglected her duties before she took office as commissioner. this is a conflict of interest, and the former commissioner must take full responsibility. i would like to stress one more fact. we're not going to get rid of tax evasion by force alone. it's also a mental leap. but to make such a leap, it would take a lot more willpower than we have today. and it's not going to happen overnight, especially if we keep hearing about high-level scams like this.
dear plenary, the summit in 14 days must not become another missed opportunity. migration it's great to have a european border guard, but think what the benefits of having such hard borders and fences will be if we have within our borders a country like hungary that sells residence permits for a fat profit. it's immoral, it's pretty discriminatory, and it makes me mad that we have such hypocritical practices. what's happening in syria has crossed the line of understanding. ban ki-moon has described the situation in aleppo as worse than a slaughterhouse. where is the european union while russia and the syrian government slaughter innocent people and reject peace in syria? the citizens expect an answer to the question of whose interests the international community and the european union are pursuing. meanwhile, there are many other things happening around us that require immediate action. from referendums whose content cannot be in the interest of the member states, to the brutal and direct suppression of women's rights, which many in the union so fondly blame on muslim immigrants. we have major economic challenges, starting with preparing companies to do new business with the uk, we have to complete the challenges of tax legislation, we have to ensure people are working and getting paid. and words, my friends, are not edible.
on the one hand, we build walls, we put up fences, we close doors to people who are fleeing wars, fleeing violence, because it's obviously difficult to agree on a fair distribution of the burden. on the other hand, we are opening the door wide to harmful agreements about which we know much less than we would like to, especially because of the lack of transparency in the negotiations - i am talking about ceta and, of course, ttip. and by doing so, we're also ignoring the millions of people who are opposed to these agreements, who are actually going to affect standards, both environmental and social and even labor rights, who are enforcing so-called high courts that only serve investors and their profits, not of course human rights, and the rights to clean water, healthy, unpolluted food. and if we sign, and if you sign this provisional use, which is against democracy, then you also ignore the national parliaments. so i suggest you don't sign this.
in writing. ‒ i welcome peru's accession to the hague convention and therefore had no reservations about supporting the proposed decision. the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a very important instrument that provides for a system of cooperation in finding solutions to cases of international child abduction. the convention has long been ratified by all eu member states. the most common problem is the breakdown of the union between parents who come from different countries. there is a danger that one of the parents may wish to take advantage of the lack of cooperation between the two countries and thus gain exclusive custody of the children. in such cases, the main problem is the national bias of the legal systems in individual countries, and judgments often end up with each national court entrusting the child to the care and upbringing of a parent who is a national of that country. the convention, however, provides for the jurisdiction of the courts and the law of the country in which the child is domiciled, as well as a system to ensure the prompt return of the child wrongfully removed. in the event of peru's accession to the convention, this will mean that children associated with the peruvian community in eu member states will be protected against unlawful removal.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a council decision authorising the republic of austria and romania to accept, in the interest of the european union, peru's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. often, problems arise when a couple's relationship ends. if the parents are from different countries, there is a risk that one of them will try to take advantage of the lack of cooperation between these countries and gain exclusive custody of the children. the purpose of this convention is to resolve such cases at the international level by determining the courts and the law of the state in which the child is domiciled as the courts having jurisdiction and the law applicable. the convention also provides for a system to ensure the prompt return of a child wrongfully removed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision authorising the republic of austria and romania to accept, in the interest of the european union, the accession of peru to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a vitally important instrument that has been ratified by all eu member states. the convention introduces a system of cooperation between the contracting states aimed at settling cases of international child abduction. in many instances, these problems arise when a couple has separated. if the mother and father are from different states, there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between those states in order to secure custody of the child. the biggest problem in such cases is the national bias of the legal systems of individual states. the purpose of the convention is to resolve such situations at an international level, by establishing that the competent courts and applicable laws are those of the state of residence of the child. i believe that the accession of peru to the convention is to be welcomed, especially as many eu citizens are of peruvian origin.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a council decision authorising the republic of austria and romania to accept, in the interest of the european union, peru's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the 1980 hague convention provides a system that allows states parties to cooperate in finding solutions to cases of international wrongful removal of children. following the accession of peru to the convention, the council should authorise by decision those member states which have not yet accepted peru's accession, namely austria and romania, to accept that accession. the convention will thus enter into force between peru and the whole of the european union.
in writing. ‒ as with the accession of peru to the hague convention, i have no reservations about kazakhstan's accession to the hague convention and therefore fully support the proposed decision. the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a very important instrument that provides for a system of cooperation in finding solutions to cases of international child abduction. the convention has long been ratified by all eu member states. the most common problem is the breakdown of the union between parents who come from different countries. there is a danger that one of the parents may wish to take advantage of the lack of cooperation between the two countries and thus gain exclusive custody of the children. in such cases, the main problem is the national bias of the legal systems in individual countries, and judgments often end up with each national court entrusting the child to the care and upbringing of a parent who is a national of that country. the convention, however, provides for the jurisdiction of the courts and the law of the country in which the child is domiciled, as well as a system to ensure the prompt return of the child wrongfully removed. in the event of kazakhstan acceding to the convention, this means that children associated with the kazakh community in eu member states will be protected from unlawful removal.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a council decision authorising certain member states to accept, in the interest of the european union, kazakhstan's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. often, problems arise when a couple's relationship ends. if the parents are from different countries, there is a risk that one of them will try to take advantage of the purpose of this convention is to resolve such cases at the international level by determining the courts and the law of the state in which the child is domiciled as the courts having jurisdiction and the law applicable. the convention also provides for a system to ensure the prompt return of a child wrongfully removed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision authorising certain member states to accept, in the interest of the european union, the accession of kazakhstan to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a vitally important instrument that has been ratified by all eu member states. the convention introduces a system of cooperation between the contracting states aimed at settling cases of international child abduction. in many instances, these problems arise when a couple has separated. if the mother and father are from different states, there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between those states in order to secure custody of the child. the biggest problem in such cases is the national bias of the legal systems of individual states. the purpose of the convention is to resolve such situations at an international level, by establishing that the competent courts and applicable laws are those of the state of residence of the child. i believe that the accession of kazakhstan is to be welcomed, as the hague convention system is more effective if more countries sign up to it.
in writing. ‒ as with the accession of peru and kazakhstan to the hague convention, i have no reservations about the accession of korea to the hague convention and therefore fully support the proposed decision. the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a very important instrument that provides for a system of cooperation in finding solutions to cases of international child abduction. the convention has long been ratified by all eu member states. the most common problem is the breakdown of the union between parents who come from different countries. there is a danger that one of the parents may wish to take advantage of the lack of cooperation between the two countries and thus gain exclusive custody of the children. in such cases, the main problem is the national bias of the legal systems in individual countries, and judgments often end up with each national court entrusting the child to the care and upbringing of a parent who is a national of that country. the convention, however, provides for the jurisdiction of the courts and the law of the country in which the child is domiciled, as well as a system to ensure the prompt return of the child wrongfully removed. in the event of korea's accession to the convention, this means that children associated with the korean community in eu member states will be protected against unlawful removal.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a council decision authorising certain member states to accept, in the interest of the european union, the accession of the republic of korea to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. often, problems arise when a couple's relationship ends. if the parents are from different countries, there is a risk that one of them will try to take advantage of the purpose of this convention is to resolve such cases at the international level by determining the courts and the law of the state in which the child is domiciled as the courts having jurisdiction and the law applicable. the convention also provides for a system to ensure the prompt return of a child wrongfully removed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision authorising certain member states to accept, in the interest of the european union, the accession of the republic of korea to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a vitally important instrument that has been ratified by all eu member states. the convention introduces a system of cooperation between the contracting states aimed at settling cases of international child abduction. in many instances, these problems arise when a couple has separated. if the mother and father are from different states, there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between those states in order to secure custody of the child. the biggest problem in such cases is the national bias of the legal systems of individual states. the purpose of the convention is to resolve such situations at an international level, by establishing that the competent courts and applicable laws are those of the state of residence of the child. i believe that the accession of korea is to be welcomed, especially as there is a significant korean community in europe.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a council decision authorising certain member states to accept, in the interest of the european union, the accession of the republic of korea to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the 1980 hague convention provides a system that allows states parties to cooperate in finding solutions to cases of international wrongful removal of children, which often arise in the event of the termination of a civil partnership. the convention provides for international jurisdiction and conflict-of-law rules to resolve such disputes and a system to ensure the prompt return of a child wrongfully removed. following the accession of south korea to the convention, the council should authorise, by decision, the member states to accept the accession of south korea. the convention will thus enter into force between south korea and the whole of the european union.
in writing. ‒ despite my abstention in the final vote on the resolution on the eu's global objectives and commitments on food security and food security in the world, i strongly support all programmes implemented by the european union, both in the form of humanitarian and development aid to third countries. it is time to focus on eu development aid to help small farmers develop in the countries with the greatest food shortages, in africa. this type of agriculture is the basis for people to get their food and at the same time create new jobs. europe can do a lot in education and the exchange of experience. success in developing food security in developing countries will also help to solve the migration problem that we will continue to face around the world.
in writing. ‒ sustainable agricultural policy must necessarily include the fight against malnutrition. the focus should be on supporting small farmers and family farms, which, with the diversity of crops they grow, can make a key contribution to the agricultural strategy of developing countries. in this respect, the eu should commit itself to a fundamental shift towards organic farming. the resolution thus reaffirms the importance of coordinated and accelerated action by global, national, local, governmental, non-governmental and private actors in addressing malnutrition in order to meet the objectives of the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goal on ending hunger. in this resolution, parliament called on the commission and the member states to focus their activities on policy coherence for development and to give due consideration to changes in their trade, agriculture and energy policies in the interests of global food security. a sustainable agricultural policy that works towards the objectives of the 2030 agenda is essential for food security. that is why i supported the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the motion for a european parliament resolution on the next steps towards the eu's global objectives and commitments on food security and food security in the world. the human right to food can only be fully achieved by radically reducing poverty and inequality, ensuring equity and strengthening resilience to shocks, in particular by establishing rights-based social safety nets and ensuring the full participation of vulnerable groups and by ensuring that small farms of pastoral communities have access to and control over land and can manage resources and other means of production. the motion for a resolution contained a number of amendments which i could not support, but which were accepted. that is why i could not support the entire resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motions for resolutions on the next steps towards attaining global goals and eu commitments on nutrition and food security in the world. sdg 2 and its associated targets aim at ending hunger and malnutrition by 2030, notably by securing opportunities for and increasing the productivity of smallholders, and achieving sustainable and climate-resilient agriculture and food systems which are capable of feeding an expected global population of 8.5 billion by 2030 while protecting biodiversity, the environment, and smallholders’ interests and wellbeing. the resolution stresses the need to tackle the systemic problems that generate poor nutrition in all its forms. it equally underlines that the human right to food can only be fully achieved when poverty and inequality are drastically reduced, equality is ensured and resilience to shocks is enhanced. i voted in favour because i believe that it is essential to establish social protection schemes to ensure that all individuals have access to nutritious food at all times.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution because a majority of meps supported paragraph 13 (2) which called on the eu to end public initiatives for the production of crop-based biofuels. like my political group els, i am committed to reform that will bring about better biofuels, or second generation biofuels.
in writing. ‒ i also supported the motion for a resolution on the european public prosecutor's office and eurojust. the resolution responds to the findings of the final report on the vat deficit in the 28 eu member states in 2014, which found that as much as €159.5 billion of vat revenue was lost in the eu that year. since most of the lost money is due to fraud, the idea of establishing a european public prosecutor's office should finally be realised. this would reduce the current fragmentation of national law enforcement efforts to protect the eu budget and strengthen the fight against fraud in the eu. the responsibility now lies with the council, which must set out unequivocal and clear competences and procedures for the european public prosecutor's office, on the basis of the proposed directive on the protection of the eu's financial interests. i hope that the directive will be agreed as soon as possible, which would also mean the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has for some years been advocating the establishment of an efficient and independent european public prosecutor's office, which would in particular reduce the current fragmentation of national prosecution efforts to protect the eu budget. in its motion for a resolution, parliament called on the council to define clearly and unambiguously the powers and procedures of the european public prosecutor's office, on the basis of the proposed directive on combating fraud to the union's financial interests, and to re-open negotiations with parliament to help establish this body. the eppo will of course need to have at its disposal sufficient investigative measures to be able to carry out investigations, but also to ensure the protection of the procedural rights of suspects and accused persons. since i believe that the european public prosecutor's office would be a key instrument in the prosecution of abuses of the eu budget, i supported the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a european parliament resolution on the european public prosecutor's office and eurojust. it is important that the eu and all member states detect and prosecute fraud affecting the eu's financial interests in an effective and dissuasive manner, thereby protecting the taxpayers of all member states contributing to the union budget. eurojust has an important role to play in helping to improve judicial cooperation and coordination between the relevant judicial authorities of the member states and in investigations involving third countries. it is necessary to provide for clear and unambiguous competences and procedures for the european public prosecutor's office, on the basis of the proposed directive on the fight against fraud to the union's financial interests by means of criminal law (directive on the protection of the eu's financial interests).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motions for resolutions on the european public prosecutor’s office and eurojust. the establishment of an efficient and independent european public prosecutor’s office (eppo) is crucial in order to reduce the current fragmentation of national law enforcement efforts to protect the eu budget, thus strengthening the fight against fraud in the european union. the resolution underlines that the eppo should have sufficient investigative measures available to conduct its investigations. i voted in favour because i believe that the protection of the procedural rights of suspected and accused persons must be guaranteed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the european public prosecutor's office and eurojust. the european public prosecutor's office plays an important role in the field of criminal law enforcement in order to protect the eu budget. in order to strengthen the role of an effective and independent institution in the fight against fraud in the eu, it is necessary for the council to establish clear and unambiguous competences and procedures for the european public prosecutor's office and to clarify the relationship between eurojust and the european public prosecutor's office. on the other hand, it is also necessary to ensure the protection of the procedural rights of suspects and accused persons prosecuted by the eppo, in particular the right to legal aid, the right to information and access to the file, the right to present evidence and the right to ask the eppo to collect evidence on behalf of a suspect.
in writing. ‒ i also supported the joint resolution on the need for a european reindustrialisation policy in the light of the recent cases of caterpillar and alstom, which demonstrate the need to re-energize industry in europe. as a result of the cessation of production in the companies mentioned, thousands of employees are at risk of losing their jobs and, due to the specific nature of the work, there is a high risk of their permanent unemployment. i strongly agree with the statement in the resolution that european industry should be seen as a strategic asset for the eu's competitiveness. it is also necessary to ensure that economies are strong and resilient, and to orient eu industrial policy towards the future and the creation of new quality jobs. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of eastern europe and the countries of the former soviet union. the latter, in my view, represents a great opportunity for european industry.
in writing. ‒ europe has a social market economy which means that large companies have a moral and social responsibility to their employees. on the other hand our duty is to encourage a more friendly context for businesses in member state and support this from eu level, so businesses will be able to provide the added value, the jobs and the necessary growth which are essential to europe’s welfare system. therefore, the eu needs to support jobs with a reindustrialisation strategy to increase industrial activity to 20% of the eu’s gdp by 2020.
in writing. ‒ eu industrial policy must be future-oriented and enable the economy to meet various challenges, including re-industrialisation, the transition to sustainability and the creation of quality jobs. for this reason, parliament drew up a resolution calling on the member states to ensure, through legislation or collective agreements, adequate social protection, working conditions and decent wages, and, in the case of dismissals, effective protection against unfair dismissal. it also calls on the commission to develop an eu trade policy that is aligned with industrial objectives and takes account of the need to safeguard jobs in european industry. moreover, it must not lead to further deindustrialisation and must ensure a level playing field for european and third country market players. this will ensure fair competition for all. all the reasons and calls to the commission that i have mentioned are important to me, and i have therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a european parliament resolution on the need for a european reindustrialisation policy in the light of the recent caterpillar and alstom cases. ensuring coherence between the different eu policies is of paramount importance in order to define a genuine industrial policy, especially in the light of the examples of caterpillar and alstom. the railway industry is a pillar of european industrialisation with over 175 years of history. the annual growth of the rail supply industry's accessible markets is expected to be 2,8% by 2019. the european rail supply industry directly employs 400,000 people in the eu, many of them in small and medium-sized enterprises. european industry should be seen as a strategic asset for the eu's competitiveness and sustainability. only strong and resilient economies and forward-looking industrial policies will enable the european union to meet the various challenges it faces, including its re-industrialisation, the transition to sustainability and the creation of quality jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motions for resolutions on the need for a european reindustrialisation policy in light of the recent caterpillar and alstom cases. there is an absolute need for consistency between the various eu policies in order to define an actual industrial policy, in particular in the light of the caterpillar and alstom cases. the resolution underlines that european industry needs to maintain its competitiveness and capacity to invest in europe. however, it also faces social and environmental challenges which it must address, whilst remaining a world reference in terms of social and environmental responsibility. the resolution equally underlines that the member states have to ensure adequate social protection, working conditions and wages that allow people to live with dignity. i voted in favour because i strongly believe that the importance of a sustained social dialogue, at all levels, based on mutual trust and shared responsibilities, is one of the best instruments for finding consensual solutions and common perspectives in the prediction, prevention and management of the restructuring process.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the need for a european policy for reindustrialisation in the light of the recent cases of caterpillar and alstom. i agree with the call for european industry to maintain its competitiveness and capacity to invest in europe by listening to fundamental workers' rights and environmental standards. this requires an effective trade policy aligned with industrial objectives, a competitive european regulatory framework attractive to private investment and the use of research, development and innovation at all stages of the production process.
thank you, madam high representative and vice-president of the european commission, for speaking to the european parliament on such an important issue as the colombian peace process. i was thrilled to welcome the signing of the peace treaty. but i have accepted the result of the recent referendum with disappointment, but also with the awareness that this result does not mean that colombians are against peace. maintaining the ceasefire is crucial for the success of political dialogue and new compromises. i welcome the will of president santos of colombia to strengthen the peace process through additional and deeper dialogue and i wish him every success in this. i would also like to ask the key actors of the common european foreign policy, including the european parliament, to make a lasting contribution by their efforts to ensure that the excellent results of the current peace process do not revert to a state of conflict. i am convinced that with an inclusive approach and with persistence, it is possible to finally resolve a conflict that has lasted for 50 years. the colombian peace process has no alternative.
twenty-five years of conflict, nearly a quarter of a million dead, 45,000 missing, seven million people displaced. but, of course, fear overcame hope, and the referendum showed that the people had rejected the peace agreement for the time being. however, the achievements of this peace agreement and process must not be allowed to be lost, including in the area of disarmament. we must continue the reforms that have been initiated, and we must support the continuation of this process, including financially, because the peace process in colombia must be irreversible. the people rejected this peace treaty, and there must be reasons for that which we may not understand at this time. this surprising result does not mean that the fighting will continue, dialogue must continue and we must offer experience in addition to financial resources, as mr kukan said.
question asked by raising the blue card. we're having an unusual discussion here today, so i'm going to have an unusual question. i would like to ask you, madam, if i could apologize on behalf of all those who are using arguments that are totally inappropriate for the times and insult the dignity of women. thank you so much. do you accept my apology?
madam president, madam commissioner, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your time. i welcome the report by the rapporteur, mrs schaldemos, and i thank her for her attention and commitment to this subject, which has not received enough attention. it showed that the procedure in which we examined the implementation of the regulation and identified concerns was undoubtedly worthy of attention. in order to facilitate the implementation of existing legislation and to better achieve its objectives of protecting and safeguarding the health of consumers and ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market, the commission should review the current legislative framework on the basis of the recommendations set out in this report. the key finding is that the lack of specific measures for certain materials and the gaps in the risk assessment of traceability, compliance and controls require action at union level. the commission should prepare the necessary measures as a matter of priority for paper, cardboard, inks and coatings, metals and alloys, inks and adhesives, using as a starting point the review of the commission's joint research centre on national rules. further research on the interaction of different chemicals and nanomaterials needs to be supported as there is still scientific uncertainty regarding the effects and migration potential of these materials and their effects on human health. furthermore, particular attention should be paid to substances used in materials and articles intended for the packaging of foods for infants and children, and pregnant women and nursing mothers should also be included in the definition of vulnerable groups. our aim should be to promote the development of materials and products that are safe, reusable and recyclable, thus contributing to the union's efforts to establish a more efficient circular economy.
in writing. ‒ resolution on international accounting standards: i supported ifrs 9. ifrs 9 will enter into force on 1 january 2018 and will replace ias 39, and is a set of financial instruments that will be able to respond to some aspects of the financial crisis and its impact on the banking sector. ifrs 9 provides improvements over ias 39 by changing the impairment model based on incurred losses to the impairment model based on expected losses, thereby addressing the issue of 'too little and too late' in the process of recognising loan losses. however, the opinions of auditors in this area vary widely and it is therefore necessary for the esas, the commission and the european accounting advisory group to work together to develop guidelines to prevent misuse of management discretion.
in writing. ‒ if we would like to achieve a more industrialised europe, with high potential for generating jobs and growth, it is essential to support that aim with a properly functioning and efficient capital market. standardising companies’ financial reporting is one more building block towards that goal.
in writing. ‒ the international accounting standards board has issued international accounting reporting standards 9 which relate to financial instruments. this was in response to some aspects of the financial crisis and its impact on the banking sector. these standards will replace the older ones and will enter into force on 1 january 2018. parliament considered these accounting standards to be an important response to the crisis by the international accounting standards board, but also to be improvements, particularly in the area of impairment models. the resolution also calls on the european commission, in cooperation with the european supervisory authorities, to closely monitor the implementation of the new standards in the eu and to prepare an ex post impact assessment by june 2019 at the latest and submit it to the european parliament. a similar call is also made to the international accounting standards board to carry out a post-implementation review to identify and assess adverse effects. i believe that the revision of accounting standards is an important step in the fight against financial crises and i therefore supported the resolution.
in writing. ‒ motion for a european parliament resolution on international accounting standards: i supported ifrs 9. ifrs 9 financial instruments is one of the iasb's (the international accounting standards board) most important responses to the financial crisis. ifrs 9 provides improvements over ias 39 by changing the impairment model based on incurred losses to the impairment model based on expected losses, thereby addressing the issue of 'too little and too late' in the process of recognising loan losses. ifrs 9 will become effective on 1 january 2018 and will replace ias 39.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on international financial reporting standards: ifrs 9. the global financial crisis brought the role played by international financial reporting standards (ifrs) in financial stability and growth onto the g20 and eu agendas. the resolution notes that ifrs 9 – financial instruments constitutes one of the major responses of the international accounting standards board to the financial crisis. moreover, the resolution notes the importance of fully understanding the interaction of ifrs 9 with other regulatory requirements. i voted in favour because i believe that the principle of prudence must be the key guiding principle for any accounting standard.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament resolution on international accounting standards. in the wake of the global financial crisis, the role of international accounting standards, in particular the rules on the recognition of losses in the banking system, is crucial for financial stability and growth. i therefore support the call on the commission, in cooperation with the esas, the european central bank, the esrb and efrag, to closely monitor the implementation of ifrs 9 in the eu, to prepare an ex post impact assessment by june 2019 at the latest and to submit it to the european parliament and to act on its views.
in writing. - so many words have been said about syria that any one is unnecessary. actions are essential, but they are very different from words and international agreements . meanwhile, children, women and many other innocent civilians are dying, and survivors are heading in large numbers to safety and onward to europe. i supported the resolution because, from a human point of view, i have no reason to oppose it. more to the point, i wonder what the passage of the resolution will change. i'm afraid not much. the recent attacks on hospitals and humanitarian convoys are undoubtedly worthy of condemnation as a serious violation of international humanitarian law and a war crime. russia and the assad regime must immediately cease attacks on civilians and infrastructure, and the siege of cities must end. the key to beginning to resolve the dire situation in syria is to resume negotiations for a lasting ceasefire and to step up efforts to achieve a lasting political solution in the country. the eu must be more actively involved in the rescue effort. the latter have remained in a subordinate position throughout the years of the conflict, while they are the ones most affected by the waves of migrants and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ the epp group members believe that a lasting solution in syria requires a political transition through a syrian-led inclusive process with the support of the international community. all parties in the conflict should ensure the protection of the civilian population and honour their obligations under international humanitarian law and human rights law. definitely, peace in syria will not be achieved by an externally lead, non-inclusive approach. it is a matter for syria, with syrians.
in writing. ‒ despite negotiations and a brief ceasefire, the war in syria is by no means over and the situation is getting worse. the european parliament therefore strongly condemned in its resolution, in the light of recent events, all attacks on civilians and civilian infrastructure, the continuation of sieges and the lack of humanitarian aid. it also strongly condemned the recent attack on a humanitarian convoy and a red cross warehouse near aleppo and called on all parties involved, in particular russia and the assad regime, to cease attacks on civilians. parliament called on all parties involved in the international syria support group to continue negotiations to establish a stable ceasefire and to accelerate work towards a lasting political solution. i believe that a peaceful solution to the conflict in syria is essential for peace in the wider region and in the world, and that is why i supported the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on syria. violence in syria is escalating, particularly in aleppo, which is the target of heavy aerial bombardment and where health facilities are also attacked. the situation has become dramatic and is deteriorating rapidly, despite efforts by the international community to end hostilities. it calls on all parties to immediately cease attacks on the civilian population and infrastructure, including water and electricity infrastructure, to take measures to end all sieges and to allow humanitarian agencies unhindered and safe access. strongly supports the demands of the un special envoy for an end to the violence and protection of civilians and infrastructure, and for a weekly 48-hour ceasefire to allow at least humanitarian access to aleppo for the un and its partners, and for the evacuation of the wounded and sick.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on syria. the conflict in syria is well into its sixth year and has claimed the lives of more than a quarter of a million people. up to 14 million people are thought to be in need of humanitarian assistance within syria, while almost five million are in hard-to-reach or besieged areas. despite international efforts to reach a ceasefire, violence has escalated in recent weeks, with aleppo in particular facing heavy bombardments. the resolution urges all parties to the conflict immediately to stop all attacks on civilians and civilian infrastructure, including water and electrical infrastructure, to lift all sieges and to grant unhindered and safe access to international aid workers. i voted in favour because i believe that the eu must do everything in its power to work against terrorism in syria.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution of 6 october 2016 on syria. reports indicate that violence is escalating in syria, particularly in aleppo, which is the target of heavy aerial bombardment and where health facilities are being attacked. the civilian population in besieged areas in aleppo and elsewhere in syria, including women and children, lack access to basic humanitarian assistance and are in dire need of food, clean water and medical supplies. i therefore join the call for all parties concerned to cease attacks on civilians and infrastructure, to take immediate and decisive action to end hostilities and sieges, and to allow humanitarian agencies rapid, safe and unhindered access to all people in need.
in writing. ‒ just as i was pleased to support the decision to conclude the paris agreement, i also supported the above-mentioned resolution on the guidelines for the 2016 un climate change conference to be held in marrakech in november. i hope that the conference will chart a clear path towards an operational plan for implementing the key elements of the paris agreement an enhanced transparency framework, details of the global stocktake, further guidance on planned nationally determined contributions, an agreement on differentiation, loss and damage, climate finance and support for capacity purposes, etc. as in the past, the eu must continue to set an example for others and should immediately start aligning its climate and energy objectives with the agreed international target of limiting the global average temperature increase to below 2 °c, while also working towards limiting the increase to 1,5 °c, as also defined in the paris agreement. i am confident that the formal entry into force of the agreement during the marrakesh conference will increase the motivation to implement the objectives of the agreement and will also make it easier to find solutions to save our planet.
in writing. ‒ the resolution contains the european parliament's position for the next conference of the parties to the paris agreement to combat climate change, which will take place from 7 to 18 november 2016. the resolution describes an ambitious approach and calls on member states to take an even more active role in the fight against climate change. the resolution calls on the developed countries to further accelerate the dialogue to achieve more comprehensive reductions in greenhouse gas emissions and to implement the paris agreement as soon as possible. parliament expressed disappointment at the current proposal by the international civil aviation organisation on the current legislation. it is very important to me that the resolution also contains a serious acknowledgement of the existence of the so-called climate refugees. population movements due to climate change are a real problem of our time, and we must not turn a blind eye to the problems associated with such migrations. at the same time, it is important that the resolution calls on countries to increase the creation of financial levers that will be dedicated solely to combating climate change. i supported the resolution because of the extremely important subject it addresses.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament resolution on the implementation of the paris agreement and the 2016 un climate change conference in marrakech, morocco (cop 22). the paris agreement on climate change is an important milestone in the fight against climate change. the agreement is ambitious, balanced, fair and legally binding. the adoption of the agreement and the joint declaration of the 187 parties' planned nationally determined contributions before the end of cop 21 represent a significant milestone for comprehensive and joint global action, and the agreement, when implemented, will definitively and irreversibly accelerate the transition to a climate-neutral, climate-resilient global economy. the eu is on track to exceed its greenhouse gas emission reduction targets by 2020 and to meet its renewable energy target by 2020.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the implementation of the paris agreement and the 2016 un climate change conference in marrakesh, morocco. the paris agreement is to enter into force on the thirtieth day after the date on which at least 55 parties to the convention, accounting in total for at least an estimated 55% of the total global ghg emissions, have deposited their instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession to the un. the most serious effects of climate change will be felt in developing countries, particularly in those least developed countries and developing small island states that have insufficient resources to prepare for and adjust to the changes. the resolution underlines that the eu has both the capacity and responsibility to lead by example and to start work immediately on aligning its climate and energy targets with the agreed international goal of limiting the increase in global average temperature to below 2°c, while pursuing efforts to limit that increase to 1.5°c. i voted in favour because i believe that combating climate change is the priority and should be pursued worldwide while ensuring energy security and the development of sustainable economic growth and jobs.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament resolution on the implementation of the paris agreement and the 2016 un climate change conference in marrakech, morocco (cop 22). the resolution concludes that the emissions reduction plan is not ambitious enough to meet the paris agreement objectives and calls on eu member states to reduce emissions under current commitments and encourages politically and financially coordinated efforts for sustainable development. i believe that the calls are justified, as the consequences of climate change are often irreversible and cause economic, ecological and social losses. it is important that the eu maintains its leadership role in preventing climate change and actively participates in climate forums such as the forthcoming one in marrakech to achieve global performance of the paris agreement commitments with partner countries.
in writing. ‒ i also supported the report by ms schaldemos on the implementation of the regulation on materials intended to come into contact with food. this report is a response to a survey by the european parliament's research department and a study by the european food safety authority, which found that many substances present in food contact materials are not evaluated. this is particularly the case for so-called 'unintentional additives', such as impurities in intentionally added substances or substances resulting from chemical reactions present in the final material. it is therefore of the utmost importance that the manufacturers of these materials provide complete information and that scientific institutions and laboratories in all member states cooperate well. the report concludes that legislation in this area also needs to improve traceability, along the entire supply chain. in particular, it is important that the same standards of traceability and compliance apply to food contact materials imported from third countries.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report, whose key contribution is to encourage the necessary action at ec level to fill the gaps resulting from the lack of specific measures for certain materials and the shortcomings in compliance and control. the debate in parliament has shown that the subject of food packaging materials is one that undoubtedly deserves more attention. we have verified the implementation of the relevant regulation and have identified concerns. our aim is to promote the development of materials and products that are safe, reusable and recyclable, thus contributing to the union's efforts to establish a more efficient circular economy.
in writing. ‒ food contact materials are something we encounter on a daily basis. they can be found in food packaging, kitchen utensils, and the like. different materials may behave very differently when in contact with food and leave traces or particles in the food. it is therefore important that the rules on the main standards are regulated at european union level. the report recommends in particular that action be taken at eu level on materials that are regulated in each country separately. these materials are mainly paper (also recycled), cardboard, various coatings, inks and accessories. the main point of this report is the need to address rapidly the current shortcomings in the implementation of the regulation of materials intended to come into contact with food. i believe that in the case of exposed materials, the most important issues are risk assessment, traceability, enforcement and control. i supported the report because food safety is crucial to our health and a healthy environment.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a regulation implementing the regulation on materials intended to come into contact with foodstuffs (regulation (ec) no 1935/2004). materials intended to come into contact with food are often used in everyday life in the form of food packaging, kitchen utensils, tableware and accessories, etc. chemicals from materials intended to come into contact with food endanger human health or adversely affect the composition of food. as food is considered to be one of the main routes of human exposure to chemicals, these materials are subject to legally binding rules at eu level, currently set out in the framework regulation. the regulation lays down general safety requirements applicable to all possible materials and articles intended to come into contact with food.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the food contact materials regulation ((ec) no 1935/2004). food contact materials (fcms) are largely used in everyday life in the form of food packaging, kitchen utensils, tableware, etc. when put in contact with food, and depending on their composition and properties, the different materials may behave differently, transferring their constituents to the food. in such cases, chemicals emanating from fcms may endanger human health or adversely change the composition of the foodstuffs. the regulation sets out general safety requirements that are applicable to all possible food contact materials and articles. i voted in favour because i believe that further harmonisation at eu level for non-harmonised materials through specific measures based on scientific evidence would be a step in the right direction, giving priority to those materials that constitute a particular risk to human health and are in bigger demand on the eu market.
in writing. ‒ individual materials and articles intended to come into contact with food may, due to their specific composition, pose a risk to public health and the environment. therefore, effective monitoring of safety requirements for all materials and articles intended to come into direct or indirect contact with food is important to prevent the entry of substances into food in quantities that could endanger human health or cause unacceptable changes in the composition of food. i believe that the implementation report on the regulation on materials intended to come into contact with foodstuffs (regulation (ec) no 1935/2004) comprehensively presents the shortcomings in the field of enforcement of the existing regulation and sets out appropriate measures to improve the situation, and i therefore supported it.
in writing. ‒ i also supported the 2014 annual report on monitoring the application of eu law, which contains a lot of interesting information on the actual implementation and practical application of eu law. the report shows that the areas of environment, transport, internal market and services were the most affected by infringement procedures in 2014. if i translate this to the national level of the country i come from, the situation is similar. i am very pleased that the number of procedures is decreasing, which is an indication of the improvement in the dialogue between the commission and the member states.
in writing. ‒ european union law is of paramount importance to the very functioning of this common union of states. it is therefore important that its implementation and use are monitored. the 2014 annual report on the monitoring of the application of union law states that the enforcement of eu law is still not sufficiently transparent and open. it calls for respect for the principles of legal clarity, transparency and openness and for the correct and timely application of eu law. although enforcing eu law is supposed to be one of the priorities of the current european commission, this goal is far from being achieved. i believe that the commission should be more active in this area, and at the same time the european parliament could play a greater role in analysing the enforcement of eu law. the eu should also offer wider support to the most recent and future members in their own implementation and enforcement of eu law. i support efforts to improve in this area and have therefore supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal on monitoring the application of union law annual report 2014. the 32nd annual report on the monitoring of the application of eu law by the commission shows that the areas of environment, transport, internal market and services were the most affected by infringement procedures in 2014. it also highlights that the number of formal infringement procedures has decreased over the past five years. parliament still has very limited access to information on procedures and open cases in eu pilot. the report therefore concludes that the enforcement of eu law is still not sufficiently transparent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on monitoring the application of union law: 2014 annual report. the commission’s 32nd annual report on monitoring the application of eu law shows that environment, transport and internal market and services remained the policy areas in which most infringement cases were open in 2014. the annual report also stresses that the number of formal infringement procedures has decreased in the last five years. i voted in favour because i believe that the european parliament should play a more structured role in the analysis of how accession countries and countries with association agreements with the european union comply with eu law and in developing appropriate support in this respect to those countries.
in writing. ‒ in a european union based on the rule of law and legal certainty and predictability, monitoring the application of eu law in the member states is essential for the credibility of the institutions and citizens' confidence in the effective functioning of the eu. the report on monitoring the application of union law, in my view, rightly calls on the commission to improve the preparation of legislation, to set more realistic deadlines for the transposition and enforcement of legislation in the member states and to effectively monitor the timely and correct transposition of eu law into national law, and i therefore supported it.
in writing. ‒ like all objections to the placing on the market of genetically engineered seeds for cultivation, i supported this objection, which relates to gm maize bt11. there is also no consensus amongst the scientific community on the issue of gmos, and it is expected that members of parliament and the general public will share our views on these issues. i myself am a proponent of the precautionary principle in the case of gmos, and i think it is completely unnecessary to rush through a sensitive subject such as the registration of gmo maize. we are at a delicate moment when the institutions should have more respect for each other and, above all, for the will of the people who are largely against the use of gmos in europe. i also wonder very much, personally, if we really need this kind of gmo corn seed. the genetically modified bt11 maize treated contains the pat protein which confers resistance to the herbicide glufosinate-ammonium, the use of which is only authorised in the eu until 2017. that herbicide is toxic to reproduction and the use of genetically modified maize would lead to an increase in its use and thus an increase in the risk to human health.
in writing. ‒ i supported the objection because i consider that the draft commission implementing decision goes beyond the implementing powers provided for in directive 2001/18/ec. the commission should therefore withdraw the draft implementing decision concerning the authorisation of genetically modified maize. i do not recognise gmos as part of the solution to the problems facing the agricultural and food sectors.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament successfully objected to the authorisation of five food and feed products derived from genetically modified organisms. these include the seeds of the genetically modified maize bt11 covered by this resolution. at the same time, the european commission rejected the call for a change in the procedure for authorising the use of individual genetically modified organisms, as the european parliament considers that the procedure is currently undemocratic, as decisions are now taken by the commission. there is also a certain lack of data on the use and import of genetically modified organisms, as the commission rarely shares data with the european parliament in such cases. the european food safety authority is also currently reviewing genetically modified organisms that the commission intends to authorise for research use. i believe that we need to keep our food safe and healthy, and i voted in favour of a resolution by parliament seeking to reject the authorisation of the genetically modified bt11 maize seeds.
in writing. ‒ objection under rule 106: i supported the placing on the market for cultivation of genetically modified maize bt11. in 1996, syngenta seeds sas (formerly novartis seeds) (the notifier) submitted to the competent authority of france a request for the placing on the market of genetically modified maize bt11 in accordance with council directive 90/220/eec (8). the draft implementing decision is not in line with union law and the objective of directive 2001/18/ec of the european parliament and of the council, namely to approximate the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states in accordance with the precautionary principle and to protect human health and the environment, where gmos are deliberately released into the environment for any reason other than placing on the market in the community or when gmos are placed on the market as or in products in the community.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection pursuant to rule 106(2) and (3) of the rules of procedure on the draft commission implementing decision concerning the placing on the market for cultivation of genetically modified maize bt11 (syn-btø11-1) seeds (d046173/01 – 2016/2919(rsp)). i voted in favour of the objection because i believe that maize bt11 seeds could harm ‘non-target’ species of butterflies and moths. moreover, i find that the concept introduced by the european food safety authority (efsa) of an ‘acceptable local mortality’ of non-target lepidopteran species should be revised.
in writing. ‒ i also supported this objection to the use of genetically modified maize 1507, which, like genetically modified maize bt11, is resistant to maize mildew (ostrinia nubilalis) and the sesamia nonagrioides moth, and also contains the pat protein, which causes resistance to the herbicide glufosinate-ammonium. there is also no consensus amongst the scientific community on the issue of gmos, and it is expected that members of parliament and the general public will also share our views on these issues. i myself am a proponent of the precautionary principle in the case of gmos, and i think it is completely unnecessary to rush through a sensitive subject such as the registration of gmo maize. we are at a delicate moment when the institutions should have more respect for each other and, above all, for the will of the people who are largely against the use of gmos in europe. i also wonder very much, personally, if we really need this kind of gmo corn seed. glufosinate-ammonium, the use of which is only authorised in the eu until 2017, is toxic for reproduction and the use of genetically modified maize 1507 would increase its use and thus increase the risk to human health.
in writing. ‒ i supported the objection because i consider that the draft commission implementing decision goes beyond the implementing powers provided for in directive 2001/18/ec. the commission should therefore withdraw the draft implementing decision concerning the authorisation of genetically modified maize. i do not recognise gmos as part of the solution to the problems facing the agricultural and food sectors.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament successfully objected to the authorisation of five food and feed products derived from genetically modified organisms. these include seeds of genetically modified maize 1507 covered by this resolution. at the same time, the european commission rejected the call for a change in the procedure for authorising the use of individual genetically modified organisms, as the european parliament considers that the procedure is currently undemocratic, as decisions are now taken by the commission. there is also a certain lack of data on the use and import of genetically modified organisms, as the commission rarely shares data with the european parliament in such cases. the european food safety authority is also currently carrying out research on genetically modified organisms that the commission intends to authorise for use. because i believe in keeping our food safe and healthy, i voted for a resolution in parliament seeking to have the authorisation not passed.
in writing. ‒ objection under rule 106: i supported the placing on the market for cultivation of genetically modified maize 1507. in 2001, pioneer overseas corporation and dow agrosciences europe ltd submitted to the competent authority of spain an application for the placing on the market of genetically modified maize 1507 in accordance with council directive 90/220/ec (9). the draft implementing decision is not in line with union law and the objective of directive 2001/18/ec of the european parliament and of the council, namely to approximate the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states in accordance with the precautionary principle and to protect human health and the environment, where gmos are deliberately released into the environment for any reason other than placing on the market in the community or when gmos are placed on the market as or in products in the community.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection pursuant to rule 106(2) and (3) of the rules of procedure on the draft commission implementing decision concerning the placing on the market for cultivation of genetically modified maize 1507 (das-ø15ø7-1) seeds (d046172/00 – 2016/2920(rsp)). i voted in favour of the objection because i believe that maize 1507 seeds could harm ‘non-target’ species of butterflies and moths. moreover, i find that the concept introduced by the european food safety authority (efsa) of an ‘acceptable local mortality’ of non-target lepidopteran species should be revised.
in writing. - i supported that objection as well. that genetically modified maize mon 810 provides protection against certain lepidoptera pests, including the corn borer (ostrinia nubilalis) and the sesamia spp. butterfly, but the efsa impact assessment of mon 810 does not include cross-pollination of maize, which increases the risk for biodiversity. there is also no consensus amongst the scientific community on the issue of gmos, and it is expected that members of parliament and the general public will also share our views on these issues. i am a proponent of the precautionary principle in the case of gmos, and i find it completely unnecessary to rush through a sensitive subject such as the registration of gmo maize. we are at a delicate moment when the institutions should have more respect for each other and, above all, for the will of the people who are largely against the use of gmos in europe. and i also wonder very much, personally, if we really need this kind of gmo maize seed that is going to be resistant to glyphosate and glyphosate. i understand that for various reasons we are not able to grow enough soybeans in the eu and we are obliged to import soybeans from countries where gmos are mainly used. but i can't understand why we need gmo corn seed. i'm pretty sure we can grow enough corn without that gmo seed. therefore, i supported the proposed conscientious objection.
in writing. ‒ i supported the objection because i consider that the draft commission implementing decision goes beyond the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1829/2003. the commission should withdraw the draft implementing decision concerning the authorisation of genetically modified maize, as no basis is provided for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the smooth functioning of the internal market. i do not recognise gmos as part of the solution to the problems facing the agricultural and food sectors.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament successfully objected to the authorisation of five food and feed products derived from genetically modified organisms. these include seeds of genetically modified maize mon 810 covered by this resolution. at the same time, the european commission rejected the call for a change in the procedure for authorising the use of individual genetically modified organisms, as the european parliament considers that the procedure is currently undemocratic, as decisions are now taken by the commission. there is also a certain lack of data on the use and import of genetically modified organisms, as the commission rarely shares data with the european parliament in such cases. the european food safety authority is also currently carrying out research into genetically modified organisms that the commission intends to authorise for use. because i believe in keeping our food safe and healthy, i voted for a resolution in parliament seeking to have the authorisation not passed.
in writing. ‒ objection under rule 106: i have supported the renewal of the authorisation to place the genetically modified maize mon 810 on the market for the cultivation of seeds. on 11 and 18 april 2007, monsanto europe sa submitted to the commission three applications for the renewal of the approval of existing foods, food ingredients and feed produced from mon 810 maize, in accordance with articles 11 and 23 of regulation (ec) no 1829/2007. the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law as it is not consistent with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, which is in line with the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002 to provide a basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the smooth functioning of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection pursuant to rule 106(2) and (3) of the rules of procedure on the draft commission implementing decision renewing the authorisation for the placing on the market for cultivation of genetically modified maize mon 810 (mon-øø81ø-6) seeds (d046170/00 – 2016/2921(rsp)). i voted in favour of the objection because i believe that the efsa assessment of maize mon 810 seeds lacks data. in addition, possible cross-contamination by an invasive plant carrying bacillus thuringiensis (bt) toxin, used as a pesticide, poses major risks for farmers and the environment.
in writing. ‒ i also supported the objection to the renewal of the authorisation to place on the market products derived from genetically modified maize mon 810. that maize provides protection against certain lepidoptera pests, including the corn borer (ostrinia nubilalis) and the sesamia spp. butterfly, but the efsa impact assessment of mon 810 maize does not include cross-pollination of maize, which increases the risk to biodiversity. there is also no consensus amongst the scientific community on the issue of gmos, and it is expected that members of parliament and the general public will also share our views on these issues. i am a proponent of the precautionary principle in the case of gmos, and i think it is completely unnecessary to rush through a sensitive subject such as the registration of products made from gm maize.
in writing. ‒ i supported the objection because i consider that the draft commission implementing decision goes beyond the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1829/2003. the commission should withdraw the draft implementing decision concerning the authorisation of genetically modified maize, as no basis is provided for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the smooth functioning of the internal market. i do not recognise gmos as part of the solution to the problems facing the agricultural and food sectors.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament successfully objected to the authorisation of five food and feed products derived from genetically modified organisms. these include products from genetically modified maize mon 810 covered by this resolution. at the same time, the european commission rejected the call for a change in the procedure for authorising the use of individual genetically modified organisms, as the european parliament considers that the procedure is currently undemocratic, as decisions are now taken by the commission. there is also a certain lack of data on the use and import of genetically modified organisms, as the commission rarely shares data with the european parliament in such cases. the european food safety authority also carries out research in relation to genetically modified organisms that the commission intends to authorise for use. because i believe in keeping our food safe and healthy, i voted for a resolution in parliament seeking to have the authorisation not passed.
in writing. ‒ objection under rule 106: i have supported the renewal of the authorisation to place genetically modified maize mon 810 on the market. on 11 and 18 april 2007, monsanto europe sa submitted to the commission three applications for the renewal of the approval of existing foods, food ingredients and feed produced from mon 810 maize, in accordance with articles 11 and 23 of regulation (ec) no 1829/2007. the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law as it is not consistent with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, which is in line with the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002 to provide a basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the smooth functioning of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection pursuant to rule 106(2) and (3) of the rules of procedure on the draft commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of genetically modified maize mon 810 (mon-øø81ø-6) products pursuant to regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 of the european parliament and of the council (d046169/00 – 2016/2922(rsp)). i voted in favour of the objection because i believe that gmos are now being authorised in the eu by the commission, without the support of opinions of member state committees. i find that the commission goes beyond its powers. although this was supposed to be an exception to the usual decision-making procedure, it has in fact become the norm.
in writing. ‒ i also supported the last objection concerning the placing on the market of products derived from genetically modified organisms, namely for gm cotton. in order to further avoid continuing objections to commission decisions on gmo issues, the commission should take greater account of frequently expressed national concerns that go beyond issues relating to the safety of genetically modified organisms for health or the environment. as a proponent of the precautionary principle in gmos, i believe that the placing on the market of such products should be extremely conservative, as we do not yet know all the consequences for human health that may result from the consumption of products produced from gmos. we also have to take into account the wishes of people who, for the most part, do not want to grow gmos in europe.
in writing. ‒ i supported the objection because i consider that the draft commission implementing decision goes beyond the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1829/2003. the commission should withdraw the draft implementing decision on the authorisation of genetically modified cotton as the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the smooth functioning of the internal market, is not provided.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament successfully objected to the authorisation of five food and feed products derived from genetically modified organisms. these include products containing genetically modified cotton mon 88913 covered by this resolution. at the same time, the european commission rejected the call for a change in the procedure for authorising the use of individual genetically modified organisms, as the european parliament considers that the procedure is currently undemocratic, as decisions are now taken by the commission. there is also a certain lack of data on the use and import of genetically modified organisms, as the commission rarely shares data with the european parliament in such cases. the european food safety authority also carries out research in relation to genetically modified organisms that the commission intends to authorise for use. because i believe in keeping our food safe and healthy, i voted for a resolution in parliament seeking to have the authorisation not passed.
in writing. ‒ objection under article 106: i supported the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified cotton 281-24-236 × 3006-210-23 × mon 88913. on 12 march 2009, dow agrosciences europe submitted to the competent authority of the netherlands an application, in accordance with articles 5 and 17 of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, for the placing on the market of foods, food ingredients, and feed containing, consisting of, or produced from 281-24-236 × 3006-210-23 × mon 88913 cotton. the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law as it is not consistent with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, which is in line with the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002 to provide a basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the smooth functioning of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection pursuant to rule 106(2) and (3) of the rules of procedure on the draft commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified cotton 281-24-236 × 3006-210-23 × mon 88913 (das-24236-5×das-21ø23-5×mon-88913-8) pursuant to regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 of the european parliament and of the council (d046168/00 – 2016/2923(rsp)). i voted in favour of the objection because i believe that gmos are now being authorised in the eu by the commission without the support of opinions of member state committees. i find that the commission goes beyond its powers. although this was supposed to be an exception to the usual decision-making procedure, it has in fact become the norm.
in writing. organized crime, corruption and money laundering threaten not only freedom of economic activity and competitiveness, but above all the security and freedom of all citizens. if we are to successfully counter these paralysing threats at both european and national level, we must not delay any longer in taking appropriate action. the cross-border dimension of criminal organisations requires a uniform definition of criminal offences and close cooperation between national authorities and european union agencies. the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office, independent of national governments and eu institutions, is a real step towards a more effective fight against corruption.
in writing. high-quality transport links are fundamental to economic development in europe and to the quality of life of european citizens. transport infrastructure is still less developed in most regions of the central and eastern part of the eu compared to other european regions. connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure in this area is one of the key ways of achieving the objectives of cohesion policy. slovenia is also one of the countries with a number of unresolved challenges in terms of accessibility and connectivity of transport infrastructure and should focus on closing the gaps. this would not only allow for smooth traffic, but also provide new business opportunities. in implementing transport infrastructure projects, member states and the commission should also ensure synergies and complementarities between the connecting europe facility, the european structural and investment funds and the instruments of the european investment bank and the european bank for reconstruction and development, in order to significantly improve their use and diversification, as these are projects requiring large investments. at the same time, it would strengthen the economy and create new jobs.
madam president, first of all i would also like to thank sophia in ‘t veld and the other shadow rapporteurs. i agree with the first vice-president that it is a very political process, and the rule of law is the key fundamental framework of our union. if that fails, our democracy is seriously threatened. i very much agree with my colleagues that we need to kick off by finding institutional agreement on establishing a mechanism like this that is in fact a manifestation of our common european values. let me remind you, commissioner timmermans, that in 2013 you, together with your colleagues, wrote to the former president of the commission, mr barroso, asking him for the establishment of such a mechanism that would protect our fundamental values. we have today an excellent chance to make it happen. in general, i do not support the idea of duplicating mechanisms with tools that already exist, but i do not feel that today we have such mechanisms that are effective. looking at the situation in poland or hungary, socialists and democrats have for a long time been pushing for the establishment of a democracy scoreboard. today we ask the accession countries to meet the copenhagen criteria, but the member states can simply do whatever they want. so i very much support the idea of establishing such a mechanism on democracy that would stop various violations of the treaties, for example freedom of the media, which we heard mentioned several times. so this mechanism is really needed.
i have long advocated the establishment of an effective mechanism to monitor the functioning of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in the member states. i believe that a politically independent mechanism is one of the key measures for the rule of law in the european union, so that abuses are no longer abused, especially in transition, post-socialist countries. it is known that in slovenia, for example, opposition champion janez janša was arrested without evidence three weeks before the parliamentary elections, but after the elections and six months in prison he was cleared of all charges. and that's the end of the story. in cases of such serious abuse, the union should react immediately, but it does not, because it does not have the appropriate mechanism. with this proposal, it will probably get it, but care must be taken that it is not used for political purposes, as has already happened in the past in the case of hungary and elsewhere. if we fail to ensure the impartiality of the use of this mechanism, the citizens of the european union will reject such intervention by the european union and euroscepticism will continue to grow.
i support this excellent report and i support it fully. it will enable us to monitor more effectively the implementation and practice of fundamental rights violations in some of our member states. but i would just like to add one more to the core values that the report and the debate today are talking about. i think it's right to also talk about peace efforts as activities in favor of one of the fundamental rights of people that they are particularly interested in at a time when we have wars all around us, when talking about war has become almost talking about some real perspective that awaits us. people in europe are afraid, and more must be done for peace.
security is a value that is of great importance to european citizens. in a recent eurobarometer survey, more than 80% of citizens said they wanted more action at union level. but security, to me, is multi-layered: safety from junk food, privacy, media independence, effective rule of law. and we must not forget the other aspect, namely protection against excessive security that would encroach on fundamental rights. in its response to the terrorist attacks, the commission has responded with a series of new measures. while i welcome proportionate, genuinely necessary and effective measures, many also go in the direction of undermining fundamental rights. and i think that the very fragile relationship between security and other measures in the union has already been broken. we need to do much more than you have mentioned to combat the radicalisation of young people. suburbs like moellenbeck are a big challenge and we have good practices in the european union, denmark for example, on how to help young people who are pushed to the margins of society. mr commissioner, at our meeting and in the libe committee you advocated a thorough review and evaluation of the effectiveness of all existing security measures. we will hold you to that in the european parliament we are still waiting for that review. and until there is cooperation between the security and intelligence services, the authorities, the police and the judiciary, no new measures will help us. the same applies to the pointless creation of a kind of personal data collection database if the systems are not interconnected. in europe, we are building, in a way, what seems to be a fortress these days, an impenetrable border. we're rebuilding the asylum system, but we're making it completely inaccessible to people who need protection. and mr king, i very much regret that the commission will today take a positive decision on the extension of internal border controls, even though you yourself admit that there are no valid reasons for them. a rash rush and legislation without a real apprentice does not increase security, but only a feeling of false security, which can have serious negative consequences.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal for the automated exchange of dna data in denmark as it is about further strengthening cooperation in the field of law enforcement and thus increasing the security of eu citizens, especially in the field of terrorism and cross-border crime. the common dna database allows for faster access and thus more efficient screening of criminal suspects. it is an accurate and secure identification technology that does not allow for abuse.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has recently been informed of the automatic exchange of data relating to dna data in denmark. in accordance with the second paragraph of article 25 of council decision 2008/615/jha of 23 june 2008 on the stepping up of cross-border cooperation in combating terrorism and cross-border crime, the council is to decide by unanimity whether the conditions relating to data protection are fulfilled. the european parliament has in the past opposed such an approach (in the case of c-116/15 parliament v council before the court of justice of the eu), where it took the view that parliament should give its opinion on the matter. the court of justice of the eu has ruled that the council must obtain the consent of parliament in any such case. the greens/efa group insisted in 2008 on the inclusion of data protection standards in council decisions and on consultation of parliament. given that all the required standards for data exchange were respected in this case, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated dna data exchange in denmark. denmark will thus be entitled to receive and supply personal data for the purposes of automated searching and comparison of dna data. if we want to improve the european union's performance in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime, we must strengthen crossborder cooperation. denmark has fulfilled all the conditions, also implementing the general provisions on data protection, and has successfully completed an evaluation visit to denmark.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated dna data exchange in denmark. in accordance with article 36 (2) of decision 2008/615/jha, denmark has informed the general secretariat of the council about the national databases on dna testing to which articles 2 to 6 of that decision apply and about the conditions for automated searching referred to in article 3 (1) of that decision. denmark has completed the questionnaire on data protection and the questionnaire on dna data exchange. denmark has conducted a successful test with the netherlands. an evaluation visit has been carried out in denmark, for which an evaluation report has been prepared by the dutch evaluation team and forwarded to the relevant council working group. on 12 july 2016, the council concluded that denmark fully implements the general provisions on data protection set out in chapter 6 of decision 2008/615/jha.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange with regard to dna data in denmark. according to article 25(2) of decision 2008/615/jha, the supply of personal data provided for under that decision may not take place until the general provisions on data protection have been implemented in the national law of the territories of the member states involved in such supply. the verification that the above condition has been met with respect to automated data exchange is to be done on the basis of an evaluation report based on a questionnaire, an evaluation visit and a pilot run. an evaluation visit has taken place in denmark and a report on the evaluation visit has been produced by the dutch evaluation team and forwarded to the relevant council working group. the council concluded that denmark had fully implemented the general provisions on data protection. therefore, denmark should be entitled to receive and supply personal data pursuant to articles 3 and 4 of decision 2008/615/jha.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated dna data exchange in denmark, because i support efforts to strengthen cross-border cooperation in the field of law enforcement in the eu, in particular in the fight against terrorism and cross-border crime.
in writing. ‒ as with the previous proposal on the exchange of dna data, i also supported the exchange of dactyloscopic data as it is about further strengthening cooperation in the field of law enforcement and thus increasing the security of eu citizens, especially in the field of terrorism and cross-border crime. fingerprints, like dna, are unique to each person and thus suitable for effective identification.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament was recently informed of the automatic exchange of dactyloscopic data in denmark. in accordance with the second paragraph of article 25 of council decision 2008/615/jha of 23 june 2008 on the stepping up of cross-border cooperation in combating terrorism and cross-border crime, the council is to decide by unanimity whether the conditions relating to data protection are fulfilled. the european parliament has in the past opposed such an approach (in case c-116/15 parliament v commission [2004] ecr i-275). council before the court of justice of the eu), where he argued that parliament should give its opinion on the matter. the court of justice of the eu has ruled that the council must obtain the consent of parliament in any such case. the greens/efa group insisted in 2008 on the inclusion of data protection standards in council decisions and consultation of parliament. given that all the required standards for data exchange were respected in this case, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange with regard to dactyloscopic data in denmark. denmark will thus be entitled to receive and transmit personal data for the purposes of automated searching of dactyloscopic data. i welcome the fact that denmark is fully implementing the general provisions on data protection, which is a particularly sensitive area. denmark has successfully completed the questionnaire, the evaluation visit of the german evaluation team and the test of the exchange of dactyloscopic data.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange on dactyloscopic data in denmark. article 20 of council decision 2008/616/jha provides that the verification of whether the above condition is met in relation to the automated data exchange pursuant to chapter 2 of decision 2008/615/jha is to be carried out on the basis of an evaluation report based on a questionnaire, an evaluation visit and a test. denmark has completed the questionnaire on data protection and the questionnaire on the exchange of dactyloscopic data. an evaluation visit has been carried out in denmark, on which an evaluation report has been prepared by the german evaluation team and forwarded to the relevant council working group. a comprehensive assessment report, summarising the results of the questionnaire, the evaluation visit and the dactyloscopic data exchange test, was submitted to the council. on 12 july 2016, the council concluded that denmark fully implements the general provisions on data protection set out in chapter 6 of decision 2008/615/jha.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange with regard to dactyloscopic data in denmark. according to article 25(2) of council decision 2008/615/jha, the supply of personal data provided for under the decision may not take place until the provisions on data protection set out in chapter 6 of the decision have been implemented in the national law of the territories of the member states involved in such supply. the council must unanimously decide whether this condition has been met. denmark has completed the questionnaire on data protection and the questionnaire on dactyloscopic data exchange. i voted in favour because, according to the council, for the purposes of automated data exchange with regard to dactyloscopic data, denmark has fully implemented the general provisions on data protection of chapter 6 of decision 2008/615/jha.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange in denmark, because i support efforts to deepen cross-border cooperation in the field of law enforcement in the eu, in particular in the fight against terrorism and cross-border crime.
in writing. ‒ i supported this eu-china visa agreement because visas are unnecessary for people with diplomatic passports and hamper migration from the eu to china and vice versa. just a year ago, i had a rather bad experience in obtaining a visa, although i would not have needed it as a holder of a slovenian diplomatic passport. unfortunately, the procedure was much longer and more complicated than one would wish. the removal of visa barriers will increase the efficiency of mutual cooperation between eu member states and china, where economic cooperation is already strong. visa waiver will reduce the waiting time at consulates and all related costs. direct contacts between people in diplomatic circles will also be discouraged.
in writing. ‒ chinese diplomats will be able to travel to the schengen area without a visa, and european union diplomats will also be able to travel to china without a visa. although human rights concerns remain in china, this agreement marks the first step towards a visa-free regime with china in the future. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for all citizens of the european union and citizens of the people's republic of china holding diplomatic passports. in both cases, this shall apply for a period of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver for diplomats will reduce certain costs and facilitate the exercise of their functions. i welcome the change and see it as a step towards an easier visa regime for all eu citizens and have therefore supported the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the people's republic of china on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports. the agreement will upgrade the strategic partnership with china and enable bilateral exchanges and closer cooperation. the agreement thus allows eu and chinese nationals to travel to the territory of the other party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the people's republic of china on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports. eu citizens need a visa to enter china. the agreement allows citizens of the union holding a valid eu diplomatic passport or pass and citizens of china holding a valid diplomatic passport to travel without a visa to the territory of the other party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. the agreement is accompanied by a joint statement on the interpretation of this 90-day period in any 180-day period. the agreement establishes a joint committee of experts to manage it. visa waiver will reduce waiting times at consulates and travel-related costs. direct contacts between people, which are essential for the stable development of economic, cultural, scientific and other links, will be facilitated and strengthened.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the people’s republic of china on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports. china is among those countries whose nationals are required to hold a visa when travelling to the schengen area. eu citizens also need a visa to enter china. the migration and mobility dialogue between the eu and china is the framework under both parties exchange views and discuss possibilities for cooperation on issues of mutual interest on their respective migration policies. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union holding a valid diplomatic passport or an eu laissez-passer and for citizens of china holding a valid diplomatic passport when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party, for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. i voted in favour because i believe that waiver for holders of diplomatic passports represents a step forward in the establishment of full reciprocal visa waiver for holders of ordinary passports.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the people's republic of china on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports. i hope that the visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports heralds the establishment of a full reciprocal visa waiver for holders of ordinary passports as well. i believe that visa liberalisation is very important as it promotes the stable development of economic, cultural, scientific and other links between the eu and china.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because the implementation of the esi funds programmes is challenging, but also requires greater flexibility and the possibility of a faster response from the commission. the proposal seems to me proportionate, particularly in view of the ongoing crisis in some areas and the consequent need for further efforts to improve this mechanism. as long as member states show progress in closing their budget deficits and there is a clear effort to improve their public finances, they can also be given a little more time to close their deficits.
in writing. ‒ some member states are still experiencing financial difficulties and the extension of additional funding to these member states under the adjustment programmes and the continuation of higher co-financing rates for cyprus are welcome as they will allow for more than the necessary investments. in order to ensure the mobilisation of the european structural and investment funds (esif), the commission is authorised to make a so-called financial contribution from 1 january 2014 to 30 june 2016 for countries which have been beneficiaries of financial assistance after 21 december 2013. under these rules, five countries were eligible for such financial assistance: cyprus, greece, ireland, portugal and romania. greece remained in the programme until the end of june, while additional funding from the programme will only be available to cyprus until 30 june 2017. in the meantime, the commission will have to analyse the provisions and make a new proposal if necessary. i believe that additional funding for cyprus is justified as it is based on clear rules and principles set by the commission and also that such additional funding is used only in exceptional cases. for these reasons, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the regulation on certain provisions on financial management for certain member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability. the commission's proposal will thus make it possible to provide additional funding to a member state which will be facing financial stability problems under the european structural and investment funds programmes. the commission proposal will have no budgetary impact as it would be offset by lower payments at the end of the 2014-2020 programming period.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1303/2013 as regards certain provisions on financial management for certain member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability. in times of austerity, it is important to ensure the smooth implementation of the eu's most important financial instrument, the european structural and investment funds. article 24 of the common provisions regulation allows the commission to allocate more resources (so-called additional funding) to countries in financial difficulty under european structural and investment funds programmes. interim payments may be increased by 10 percentage points above the co-financing rate applicable to each priority from the specific funds, at the request of a member state. the additional financing shall not change the overall allocation of resources from the european structural and investment funds for the period 2014 to 2020. cyprus has the status of a more developed region under the current cohesion policy and would normally be subject to a 50% co-financing rate for programmes co-financed by the erdf and the esf. the proposed legislative amendments may temporarily increase the payment appropriations, which would be offset by lower payments at the end of the 2014-2020 programming period.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1303/2013 as regards certain provisions relating to financial management for certain member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability. the financial and economic crisis has put pressure on national economies, and member states have undertaken austerity measures to balance their budgets. in this situation, it is important to ensure the smooth implementation of the main eu funding tool, the european structural and investment funds (esif). article 24 of the cpr allows the commission to make increased payments under esif programmes – so—called ‘top-ups’ – to countries which are experiencing economic difficulties. the commission is also proposing a modification to the to the time period over which a country receiving financial assistance is eligible for the top-up that might temporarily increase payment appropriations, which would be offset by lower payments towards the end of the 2014-2020 programmes. i voted in favour because i believe that the proposal is a focused and budget-neutral solution to the temporary liquidity problems faced by certain member states.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1303/2013 as regards certain provisions on financial management for certain member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability. the legislative proposal allows for the continuation of financial assistance to cyprus and greece, which are facing financial difficulties and falling investments. the financial resources to be allocated to national co-financing of regional policy projects are a budget-neutral solution to the temporary liquidity problems of the member states concerned.
in writing. ‒ the case concerns mep jean-marie le pen and concerns a request for waiver of immunity submitted by the french prosecutor general to the paris court of appeal on 14 march 2016. thus, in paris, two trials are under way before the investigating judge of the district court for incitement to racial hatred. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, a member of the european parliament may not be subject to investigation, detention or legal proceedings for an opinion or vote he or she expresses in the performance of his or her duties. such absolute immunity of members applies to opinions expressed by them at official sittings of parliament and also to opinions expressed elsewhere, provided, of course, that there is a link between the opinion expressed and the duties of members. there is no connection between the statement in question and mr le pen's parliamentary duties, and the report therefore proposes to waive his immunity. the european parliament's conclusion in this report seems to me to be entirely correct. i believe that this kind of hate speech should not be covered by parliamentary immunity, and i therefore supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a decision requesting the waiver of the immunity of jean-marie le pen. the investigating judges of the paris district court have requested that the parliamentary immunity of mr le pen be waived for allegedly committing a crime. members of the european parliament shall, in principle, enjoy the right to freedom of expression, but this right shall not imply that they are entitled to defame, slander, incite hatred or make claims which are prejudicial to their reputation or other statements contrary to article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the request to waive the immunity of jean-marie le pen. two examining magistrates at the paris regional court have requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of jean-marie le pen in connection with an alleged criminal offence. jean—marie le pen is accused of having publicly incited racial hatred in a video clip published on the internet on 6 june 2014. the purpose of protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union is to ensure that members of the european parliament have the right to freedom of expression, but this right does not provide a carte blanche for slander, defamation, incitement to hatred or libellous assertions or any other statement which infringes article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. i voted in favour of the report because i think that there is no connection between the statement at issue and the parliamentary work of jean-marie le pen, and there is no evidence suggesting an attempt to prevent jean-marie le pen from performing his parliamentary work.
in writing. - i voted for the request to waive the immunity of jean-marie le pen. member of the european parliament is under criminal proceedings for the alleged commission of the offence of incitement to racial hatred. i support the request for the waiver of the immunity of jean-marie le pen because, as the report states, there is no link between the statement in question and the parliamentary duties of jean-marie le pen and there is no indication that it is an attempt to obstruct the parliamentary work of jean-marie le pen. the immunity provided for in article 8 of the protocol shall apply only to opinions expressed by a member of the european parliament in the performance of his duties.
in writing. ‒ the case concerns mep jane collins from the europe of freedom and direct democracy (efdd) group. ms collins sought the protection of her privileges and immunities in respect of the civil proceedings against her in the high court of justice, queen's bench division, london, as she was prevented from travelling to the parliamentary sittings by the proceedings. the case is being brought for alleged slander and defamation and concerns allegations made by jane collins at a party congress in the united kingdom. the immunity conferred by the rules of the european parliament, in particular article 8 of the protocol, applies only to opinions expressed by a member of the european parliament in the performance of his duties. for all these reasons, the draft decision proposes that the privileges and immunities of ms collins should not be protected. i believe that members of parliament should be protected under the rules of immunity. since this is not the situation, i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the request for the protection of the privileges and immunities of jane collins. jane collins sought the protection of her parliamentary privileges and immunities in respect of the civil action brought against her before the high court of justice, queen's bench division, london. jane collins stated that the drugs in the legal proceedings against her prevented her from travelling to parliamentary sessions. the request relates to the protection of the right of a member of the european parliament provided for in article 7 of the protocol, which does not apply to restrictions arising from judicial proceedings, as this is governed by the specific rules laid down in articles 8 and 9 of the protocol, and therefore the request for the protection of parliamentary privilege based on a reference to article 7 of the protocol is not admissible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the request for defence of the privileges and immunities of jane collins. jane collins has requested the defence of her parliamentary privileges and immunities in connection with civil proceedings against her before the queen’s bench division of the high court in london. the claim of libel and slander concerns accusations which jane collins made at a party conference. jane collins has allegedly been prevented from travelling to parliamentary meetings by the scheduling of the court proceedings being brought against her. however, the parliamentary immunity conferred by article 8 of the protocol applies to opinions expressed by members of the european parliament only in the performance of their duties. i voted in favour because i am of the opinion that there is no direct, obvious connection between the contested statements and jane collins’s duties as a member of the european parliament, as they do not relate to her activity as a member of the european parliament or to the policies of the european union and were made in the context of national political debate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request to waive the immunity of the mep jane collins. the mp is under judicial process for alleged libel and slander. i support the request for the waiver of jane collins' immunity because, as the report states, there is no direct, apparent link between the statements at issue by jane collins and her duties as a member of the european parliament, as they are not related to her activities as a member of the european parliament or to the policies of the european union. members of the european parliament shall enjoy parliamentary immunity only in respect of opinions expressed by them in the performance of their duties.
in writing. ‒ mario borghezio, member of the european parliament, requested the protection of his parliamentary immunity under articles 8 and 9 of protocol no 7 on criminal proceedings before the court of milan, on the ground that the member of parliament had, in a radio programme, advocated ideas of supremacy and racial or ethnic hatred, which are criminal offences in italy. the court held that this was not a situation in which a member expressed an opinion in the course of his duties, nor was there any link between his opinions and the parliamentary duties he performs in the european parliament. in particular, such statements do not have the tone that can be found in political debates in the european parliament and, moreover, are by their very nature completely contrary to what the representatives of the european citizens should be advocating. as i believe that mr borghezio has clearly not acted within the framework of his duties as a member of the european parliament, i voted in favour of the report which proposes that his immunities and privileges should not be protected.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the request for the protection of the privileges and immunities of mr maria borghezzi. mr borghezio applied for the protection of his parliamentary immunity pursuant to articles 8 and 9 of protocol no 7 on criminal proceedings before the court of milan. according to the information provided by the public prosecutor's office, mario borghezio advocated ideas of superiority and racial or ethnic hatred in a radio programme, which constitutes a criminal offence under article 1 (a) of italian law no 205/1993. the court has held that, in order to enjoy immunity, a member of the european parliament must express an opinion in the performance of his duties, which requires a link between the opinion expressed and parliamentary duties, and that this link must be direct and obvious.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the request for defence of the privileges and immunities of mario borghezio. a member of the european parliament, mario borghezio, has requested the defence of his parliamentary immunity under articles 8 and 9 of protocol no 7, in connection with criminal proceedings pending before the court of milan. according to the notice served by the public prosecutor’s office, mr borghezio is alleged to have advocated ideas founded on superiority and racial or ethnic hatred during a radio programme. the court of justice has held that, in order to enjoy immunity, an opinion must be expressed by a member of the european parliament in the performance of his duties, thus entailing the requirement of a link between the opinion expressed and the parliamentary duties, and that link must be direct and obvious. however, during the radio programme in question, mario borghezio was asked to comment on the appointment and competence of a new member of the italian government. i voted in favour because i believe that the facts of the case indicate that the statements he made during the interview have no direct and obvious connection with his parliamentary activities.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has recently proposed an amendment to regulation 91/2003/ec, while at the same time establishing common rules for the management of rail transport statistics. the aim of the amendment of the regulation is to simplify the collection and transmission of data (by member states) on goods and passengers travelling by rail. accident statistics are to be maintained by the european railway agency in accordance with the regulation. the regulation extends the obligations of the member states to provide information on the types of locomotives running on certain services, on passenger flows and also on the accessibility of railway infrastructure for disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility. in the future, the commission should step up its work on passenger data on specific routes in order to integrate rail routes in regional and cross-border areas where there are missing links in the future. i believe that progress is needed in this area and that the potential offered by railways should be better exploited within the european union, which is why i supported the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on rail transport statistics as regards the collection of data on goods, passengers and accidents. i support the proposed compromise between the commission and the european parliament, which will avoid duplication of work between eurostat, the commission and the european railway agency, while at the same time strengthening cooperation between them and bringing statistics on eu policies closer to eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft legislative resolution on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 91/2003 of the european parliament and of the council of 16 december 2002 on rail transport statistics as regards the collection of data on goods, passengers and accidents. the scope of the regulation on rail transport statistics needs to be extended to infrastructure data, in particular the establishment of a european rail traffic management system (ertms), which is one of the priorities of the trans-european transport network (ten-t). it is of the utmost importance that eu citizens have easy access to information on the implementation of eu policies, through an 'all in one' system. after lengthy negotiations, the council and parliament agreed that the most effective and cost-effective way to avoid duplication of work between eurostat, the commission and the european railway agency is to strengthen cooperation between these institutions and to ensure easy access to eu policy statistics for eu citizens and stakeholders.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 91/2003 on rail transport statistics, as regards the collection of data on goods, passengers and accidents. at first reading parliament decided that the scope of the regulation on rail transport statistics should be extended to cover data on infrastructure. parliament stressed that it was of the utmost importance to have a clear view on the development of ertms in the union, as the eu has spent millions of euros to fund this type of infrastructure without any concrete result so far in terms of operability of the system. parliament was also of the opinion that eurostat and the european railway agency should closely cooperate in improving statistics on rail accidents and in particular ensure the methodological consistency with regard to accident data on other modes of transport. i voted in favour because i believe that it is very important that eu citizens have easy access to data related to the implementation of eu policies.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's legislative resolution on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 91/2003 of the european parliament and of the council on rail transport statistics as regards the collection of data on goods, passengers and accidents. i agree with parliament that eu citizens should have easy access to information on the implementation of eu policies, all in one place. the proposed regulation on rail transport statistics will make it possible for all user groups to have easily accessible data and reliable information on the progress of european policies in the rail sector, including statistics on barrier-free stations accessible to persons with reduced mobility and disabled persons and on the use of cross-border railway infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to amend regulation 1365/2006/ec concerning statistics on inland waterways and the transport of goods by them. at the first reading in the european parliament, the proposal was accompanied by the idea of monitoring passenger traffic statistics on the mentioned routes (in particular on river ferries). the amended regulation also provides for the collection of data on the cleanliness of waterways, ships and cross-border traffic on waterways. the european parliament recommends that the commission carry out a study on the usefulness of passenger data (for ships and ferries) and on cross-border traffic in general. the commission will first develop a methodology for collecting passenger statistics in cooperation with the member states and then start pilot studies on the feasibility of collecting all passenger data. the final results of the studies will be forwarded by the european commission to the european parliament and the council, which will propose amendments. i think that the commission has put forward a good plan for the future management of statistics and possible future changes in this area, and i therefore supported the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the regulation on statistics relating to the carriage of goods by inland waterway, as regards the delegation of delegated and implementing powers to the commission to adopt certain measures. following a first reading in which the european parliament achieved an extension of the scope of the regulation on statistics on inland waterway passenger transport of goods, the parliament and the council set out the first steps towards the incorporation of statistics on passenger transport into the regulation. the commission will thus develop a methodology for data collection and launch pilot studies on the feasibility of the new databases.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft legislative resolution on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1365/2006 on statistics relating to the inland waterway transport of goods, as regards the delegation of delegated and implementing powers to the commission to adopt certain measures. parliament extended the scope of the regulation on statistics on inland waterway freight to passenger transport. parliament considered that a successful policy to strengthen the role of inland navigation in the transport sector must be based on reliable statistics covering the transport of goods and passengers. the extension of the scope of the existing regulation would bring inland waterway transport on a par with the maritime, air and road transport sectors for which statistics are collected for both goods and passengers. parliament and the council agreed that inland waterway passenger transport falls within the scope of the regulation. parliament and the council agreed to limit the powers of the commission to adopt delegated acts. delegated acts should only be adopted to adapt the regulation to international coding and nomenclature changes and to increase the thresholds. the duration of the delegation of power shall be limited to five years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1365/2006 on statistics of goods transport by inland waterways as regards the conferral of delegated and implementing powers on the commission for the adoption of certain measures. at first reading parliament extended the scope of the regulation on statistics on goods transport by inland waterway to include passenger transport. broadening the scope of the existing regulation would put inland waterway transport on an equal footing with the maritime, air and road transport sectors, for which statistical data are collected both for goods and passengers. parliament and the council have agreed to limit the powers of the commission to adopt delegated acts, which should be adopted only to adapt the regulation to changes in coding and nomenclature at international level and to increase thresholds. i voted in favour because i believe that a successful policy to enhance the role of inland navigation within the transport sector should be based on reliable statistics encompassing both goods and passenger transport.
in writing. ‒ i agree that a successful policy to strengthen the role of inland navigation in the transport sector must be based on reliable statistics covering the transport of goods and passengers. the extension of the scope of the existing regulation would bring inland waterway transport on a par with the maritime, air and road transport sectors for which statistics are collected for both goods and passengers.
in writing. ‒ the report on the proposal for a directive on the union legal framework for customs infringements and sanctions aims to harmonise administrative charges and fines in relation to customs in the eu. the report aims to achieve maximum harmonisation in this area, as the regulation of customs infringements and sanctions differs widely from the point of view of national regimes, with infringements being treated as criminal sanctions or as infringements in different member states. the proposal for a directive calls for the establishment of a scale of sanctions reflecting the gravity of customs infringements. the general objective of the directive advocated by the report is to ensure the effective enforcement of the customs legislation of the european union, and the report therefore calls on the commission to present a report on the aspects of customs legislation at union level. the purpose of the directive is to strengthen the proper functioning of the internal market, to provide a framework for customs infringements and to provide for the imposition of non-criminal sanctions for such infringements by approximating the provisions laid down by the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states. as the report highlights some important points of the customs regime, which i welcome, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the legal framework of the union for customs infringements and sanctions. in addition to the same rules on the enforcement of customs legislation, we also need the same sanctions, which must be uniform in the event of infringements. despite the great efforts made by member states to improve the cooperation and efficiency of customs administrations and to ensure equivalent results in controls, we will not achieve the progress that we would have achieved with a comprehensive approach to enforcement, including sanctions. i believe that this directive will make a significant contribution to the harmonisation of penalties for infringements of customs legislation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to refer back to committee the european parliament and council directive on the union legal framework for customs infringements and sanctions. the customs union is considered one of the foundations of the european union and the backbone of the single market, but we still lack a coherent approach to customs enforcement, including sanctions. this means that the rules are the same, but the sanctions for their violation are very different. the customs union and trade policy are the exclusive competence of the european union and therefore only the eu can develop a common approach to the enforcement of customs legislation. if differences between the sanctioning systems in the member states were to persist, this would ultimately mean that an undertaking in one member state could lose the status of authorised economic operator as a result of an infringement, while another undertaking operating in another member state would not lose it as a result of the same infringement. in order to ensure a proportionate system of penalties, the level of penalties cannot be based on the value of the goods. the penalties should be based on the amount of the hidden charges, as they should be linked to the financial consequences of the infringement. the objective of this directive should be to harmonise non-criminal sanctions for breaches of customs legislation as the most appropriate framework for improving compliance and reducing the number of infringements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the union legal framework for customs infringements and sanctions. the european commission published a proposal for a directive on the union legal framework for customs infringements and sanctions on 13 december 2013. although the customs union is considered as one of the foundations of the european union, and the backbone of the single market, there is still no integrated approach for the enforcement of customs legislation. this means that the rules are the same but when those rules are infringed, the sanctions applied significantly differ, which creates a lack of mutual trust between administrations and undermines a level playing field for economic operators in the european union. should the differences remain, it will eventually mean that a company might lose the aeo status in one country whereas for the same infringement, another company operating in another member state would not lose it. i voted in favour because i believe that member states should ensure that persons dealing with customs and trade are actively informed on how to comply and how to maintain compliance with customs legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the legal framework of the union for customs infringements and sanctions. i support the proposal for a directive containing measures to harmonise legal measures in the event of customs infringements of the internal market, as differences between the legal systems of the member states lead to a lack of transparency on how infringements are sanctioned or not sanctioned, which jeopardises the functioning of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported this draft budget amendment, as the recent terrorist incidents have called for increased expenditure to ensure the necessary security and are necessary for further efforts to address these security risks. an additional argument is the planned reduction of the european union's staff by 5%, which should not apply to security staff.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 3/2016 proposes an increase in the security budget of eur 15,8 million for the european schools, the european parliament, the commission, the court of justice of the eu, the european court of auditors, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions and the european external action service. the draft in the european parliament focuses on the creation of 35 new armed security jobs, with one of the main and pressing issues being the legal status of the assigned security guards. the security guards are expected to remain employed in the parliament in the years to come, despite the fact that a plan to reduce the staff of the european parliament by 5% was adopted some time ago. as this is a new activity, it is not a breach of the 5% reduction statement. as i do not think there is a need for armed security guards in the european parliament, i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the council position on the draft amending budget of the european union for the financial year 2016: security of the institutions. in the light of the changed security situation, unstable neighbourhoods and the recent terrorist attacks we have seen in europe, we need to increase security concerns. i support the allocation of additional security resources for a total amount of eur 15,8 million for the security of the institutions. this will create 35 permanent jobs to recruit additional security staff to the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the council position on the draft amending budget of the european union no 3/2016 for the financial year 2016 on institutional security. following the attacks in paris in november 2015 and in brussels in march 2016, all institutions reassessed their security needs in the short and medium term. the draft budget for 2017 includes additional security-related elements for almost all institutions. in some cases, however, security measures and installations need to be reinforced earlier and therefore additional funding is required already for 2016. the commission shall submit to the european parliament and to the council a report on the implementation of this decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 3/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016: security of the institutions. recent terror attacks have led the union institutions to review their security needs and to identify the need for additional resources already in 2016. draft amending budget no 3/2016 consequently proposes to reinforce the budget for security by a total amount of eur 15.8 million in the european schools, the european parliament, the european commission, the court of justice, the european court of auditors, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions and the european external action service. in addition, it aims to create 35 additional permanent posts for the recruitment of additional security agents in the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of amending budget no 3/2016: security of the institutions. the draft amending budget no 3/2016 provides for an increase in the budget for security against terrorist attacks for a total amount of eur 15,8 million to be spent by the european institutions to ensure the security of their staff.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the eu strategy on iran presented, as the nuclear agreement has adequately stabilised relations with iran and has increased security in the wider region. this is a major international success for the european union, which iran is sticking to, and demonstrating its loyal efforts. further cooperation and access of european products to the previously closed iranian market will allow for gdp growth and thus increase prosperity for both europeans and iranians. nevertheless, we are closely monitoring the human rights situation in that country. i also personally condemn the worrying trend of executions in this country.
in writing. ‒ the report seeks to establish cooperation and explore new ways of linking the european union and iran. the tone of the report is largely different from that of the report prepared in april 2014, as there are still wide differences in the views and attitudes of the various parliamentary groups towards iran in the european parliament. the report highlights the achievements of the joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa) in the field of multilateral diplomacy and european diplomacy in general. at the same time, it clarifies that the development of eu-iran relations should proceed in parallel with the implementation of the nuclear agreement, based on a comprehensive, cooperative and constructive dialogue between the two parties. the report welcomes the establishment of the iran group within the european external action service (eeas) and the preparations for the opening of the eu delegation in tehran. the same report also addresses criticisms of regulation and practice in certain areas in iran notably freedom of expression and religion, labour rights, corruption and money laundering, lack of political pluralism and the like. iran plays an important role in the region and supporting its positive efforts is important. i believe that we need to build on relations with third countries, which is why i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu's strategy for iran after the nuclear deal. it is in the interest of the european union and its citizens to have good and constructive relations with countries in the near and far neighbourhood. despite the sincere dialogue between the eu and iran on issues related to democracy, the rule of law and human rights, we must not cease to point out iran's unacceptable practices. the fact that iran has the highest per capita execution rate in the world, which is the result of capital punishment for crimes, is a matter of serious concern. we must not fail to point this out.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the eu's strategy towards iran after the nuclear deal. the joint plan of action, also known as the iran nuclear deal, is a particularly fine achievement of multilateral diplomacy and european diplomacy in particular, which should not only significantly improve eu-iran relations but also promote stability in the region as a whole. the eu and iran have decided to address issues of mutual interest in a constructive manner. the eu strategy for renewed engagement with iran is firstly based on confidence-building measures in technical areas that would create positive examples for eu-iran joint work and allow for more meaningful long-term cooperation. the council decision to lift all nuclear-related sanctions against the islamic republic of iran on the basis of the implementation of the commitments under the joint comprehensive plan of action will allow for a resumption of cooperation with iran and will create opportunities and benefits for both sides, as it will provide the potential to reopen the iranian market to european companies. the value of eu trade with iran is around usd 8 billion and is expected to quadruple in the next two years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on eu strategy towards iran after the nuclear agreement. the joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa), otherwise known as the iran nuclear deal, was a notable achievement for multilateral diplomacy and for european diplomacy in particular, which should not only make a substantial improvement in eu-iran relations possible but also help to promote stability across the whole region. all sides are now responsible for ensuring its strict and full implementation. iran has the second-largest gas reserves in the world and the fourth-largest oil reserves and energy cooperation can play a significant role in diversifying the sources of energy supply to the eu and reducing member states' energy dependency on single suppliers, thereby contributing to the eu’s energy security. i voted in favour because i believe that the nuclear deal opens the possibility for cooperation in resolving the region’s security crisis. moreover, i am of the opinion that iran can and should play a stabilisation role in the region.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal to fight corruption, as corruption and other organised crime are a major threat to our democratic society. organised crime is often cross-border and thus well adapted to different legal systems and therefore requires a coordinated common response at european union level to prevent it. it is necessary to ensure the correct transposition of existing rules, to monitor their implementation and to assess their effectiveness. however, for this plan to be successful, adequate financial resources and qualified staff must be provided.
in writing. ‒ the report on the fight against corruption and the next steps is a response to the final resolution adopted by the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering in october 2013. i welcome this report, as it calls, among other things, for the establishment of a strong and independent european public prosecutor's office with clearly defined tasks, the adoption of a legislative proposal on a european framework for the protection of whistleblowers by the end of 2017 and a focus on environmental crime. the specific issues raised in the report include the rule of law framework, the more systematic exchange of data related to organised crime operating across borders, the confiscation of assets of criminal origin, the implementation of public procurement monitoring instruments and the creation of so-called blacklists of suppliers who have been involved in organised crime or corrupt practices. the report contains important points, which is why i voted in favour of adopting it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the fight against corruption and the follow-up to the crim resolution. organised crime, corruption and money laundering threaten not only freedom of economic activity and competitiveness, but above all the security and freedom of all citizens. if we are to successfully counter these paralysing threats at both european and national level, we must not delay any longer in taking appropriate action. the cross-border dimension of criminal organisations requires a uniform definition of criminal offences and close cooperation between national authorities and european union agencies. the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office, independent of national governments and eu institutions, is a real step towards a more effective fight against corruption
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the fight against corruption and the follow-up to the crim resolution. organised crime is a threat and requires a joint and coordinated response by the eu and its member states. organised criminal groups are very adaptable to changing their activities and adapting to different territorial, economic and social areas, and exploit their weaknesses and vulnerabilities by operating simultaneously in different markets and taking advantage of the different laws of individual member states to develop their activities and increase their profits. organised crime, corruption and money laundering pose a serious threat to the eu economy, as they significantly reduce tax revenues of member states and the eu as a whole, and threaten confidence in public projects funded by the eu, as criminal organisations operate in a wide range of sectors, many of which are under government control. in 2014, 1649 fraud cases were recorded in relation to the european budget, amounting to eur 538,2 million. member states should adopt and apply existing instruments at european and international level in the field of combating organised crime, corruption and money laundering. the eu's internal and external policies need to be coordinated.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of report on the fight against corruption and follow-up of the crim resolution. organised crime is a global threat which therefore necessitates a common, coordinated response by the eu and its member states. nonetheless, we still do not fully understand the complex issue of organised crime and the danger arising from the infiltration of criminal associations into the social, economic, business, political and institutional fabric of the member states. the report underlines that the phenomena of organised crime, corruption and money laundering usually have a cross-border dimension that requires close cooperation between the competent national authorities and between national authorities and the relevant eu agencies. as part of the fight against organised crime, corruption and money laundering the member states should transpose and apply existing eu and international instruments. i voted in favour because i believe that there is a strong need for a multidisciplinary approach to prevent and combat organised crime effectively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the fight against corruption and the follow-up to the crim resolution. organized crime poses a threat and requires a joint and coordinated response by the eu and its member states, and i therefore support efforts to establish a comprehensive and effective legislative framework that will require the active participation of international and regional organisations, state actors, the private sector and civil society in the fight against organised crime.
in writing. ‒ the report is the first real attempt to contribute to the very heated debate on migration in the european union. it focuses on the rights of migrants in third countries and the means of enforcing these rights in the context of european union policies and wider international efforts. the report represents progress in this area, focusing on a human rights-based approach, while stressing that migration is a positive phenomenon in general, as mobility drives development in both the countries from which migrants leave and the countries to which they arrive. migration is a complex and multifaceted phenomenon requiring a holistic approach by the competent authorities and the majority of society. the report stresses that member states must respect their international obligations towards migrants and put their dignity at the forefront of migration policy. the european parliament calls for greater involvement in the review of european policies in this area and stresses the importance of involving civil society in the implementation of the policies themselves. because i believe that migration is both a major challenge and an opportunity for the european union, and because it is a very balanced and progressive report, i have decided to support it.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the motion for a resolution on human rights and migration in third countries. migration is a global and multidimensional phenomenon, driven by a wide range of factors, such as economic, social and political conditions, working conditions, violence and security, environmental degradation and the frequency of natural disasters. today, nearly 244 million people are considered international migrants, and an increasing number of refugees are women and children. international migration can help to overcome labour market shortages. appropriate reception and integration policies ensure that migrants do not suffer the excessive or prolonged effects of the traumas many have experienced. socio-cultural development depends on inclusion, which requires the determined efforts of both migrants, who must be willing to adapt to the host society without necessarily abandoning their original cultural identity, and of institutions and communities in the host countries, which must be prepared to welcome migrants and meet their needs. opening safe and legal migration routes is the best way to combat smuggling and trafficking in human beings, and development strategies should recognise migration and mobility as drivers of development, as remittances and investments promote development in both host and source countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on human rights and migration in third countries. migration is a global, multidimensional phenomenon caused by a wide variety of factors, such as economic conditions (including changes in wealth distribution and regional and global economic integration), social and political conditions, labour conditions, the situation with regard to violence and security, the gradual deterioration of the environment and the aggravation of natural disasters. therefore, this phenomenon must be addressed in a coherent, balanced manner, on the basis of a comprehensive approach which takes account of its human dimension, including the positive impact it has on demographic trends and economic development. the report calls for the eu and its member states to ensure efficient and effective policy coherence for development and to prioritise respect for human rights in their migration policy in relation to third countries. the report equally underlines that migration and development are linked and that development cooperation in the field of education, health, labour law, poverty reduction, human rights, democratisation and post-conflict reconstruction are key factors in preventing forced migration. i voted in favour because i believe that development assistance programmes should not be used for purely migration and border management purposes.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the motion for a resolution on human rights and migration in third countries. migration is a global and multidimensional phenomenon, driven by a wide range of factors, such as economic, social and political conditions, working conditions, violence and security, environmental degradation and the frequency of natural disasters. as the motion for a resolution does not provide a concrete, well-organised and appropriate response to migration issues, i did not support it.
in writing. ‒ human rights are often overlooked in the global business of large corporations. it is important that the european union should join the efforts of the united nations, which has already issued a number of recommendations and commitments in this area. the report highlights the legal obligations of corporations to respect human rights in their operations, regardless of their location. the text identifies a growing number of serious corporate responsibility challenges and sets out a number of european union recommendations and requirements, in particular in the area of access to justice for victims of corporate abuse. the report mentions that non-binding initiatives in this area do not represent activities that would produce sufficient results. with the acceleration of globalisation, it is becoming increasingly important to ensure respect for human rights also in the context of extraterritorial dimensions, where new and new problems arise from the point of view of the legal order. the report also calls on corporations to raise their own standards of oversight. it also expressed regret at the obstructive behaviour of some member states in relation to the pursuit of a binding un convention on entrepreneurship and human rights. i'm satisfied with the report and i've endorsed it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on corporate responsibility for serious human rights violations in third countries. i support the report which stresses that we need sustained, effective and consistent action at all levels to deal effectively with human rights violations by international companies. businesses should strive to integrate human rights considerations into their policies. to enable adequate monitoring, we need transparency and information on the measures taken to prevent human rights violations in third countries.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the responsibility of companies for serious human rights violations in third countries. the eu is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. human rights violations by companies are a global problem, and all companies in the world should respect these rights, while it is the primary duty of the european institutions to regulate the liability of those companies that are linked to the eu through laws and regulations. there is still no comprehensive global approach to corporate liability for human rights violations, and victims of human rights violations involving transnational corporations face numerous barriers to access to legal remedies. sustained, effective and consistent action is urgently needed at all levels, including national, european and international, to effectively address human rights violations by multinational companies and the legal issues arising from the extraterritorial dimension of companies and their conduct, and the related uncertainty as to who is responsible for human rights violations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on corporate liability for serious human rights abuses in third countries. the report underlines that the eu is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. corporations are one of the major players in economic globalisation, financial services and international trade and are required to comply with all applicable laws and international treaties in force and to respect human rights. the report underlines that the business community, while obliged to respect human rights, may also have an important role to play in offering positive incentives in terms of promoting human rights, democracy, environmental standards and corporate responsibility. i voted in favour because i believe that the full observance of human rights in the production chain is fundamental and not just a matter of choice for consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on corporate responsibility for serious human rights violations in third countries. human rights violations by economic societies are a global problem, affecting the rights of vulnerable groups such as minorities, indigenous peoples, women and children, or contributing to environmental problems. unfortunately, there is still no comprehensive global approach to corporate responsibility for human rights violations. i believe that human rights violations require effective remedies and that it is therefore necessary to provide a fairer and more efficient system of remedies for human rights violations by companies, both in national and international law, as called for in the report i supported.
in writing. ‒ the management of natural resources, especially fuels, is of great importance for the environment. the report largely ignores reality and does not contribute to the planned phase-out of fossil fuels. on the contrary, it encourages the expansion of the use and storage of gas and associated infrastructure, which represents a major financial burden for public treasuries throughout the european union. in the spirit of the recently signed paris climate agreement, europe as a whole should take a step forward and focus on environmentally sustainable resources and consequently invest in the 'european energy transition'. the eu strategy on lng and gas storage is part of the so-called gas package published by the european commission in february 2015. the report focuses more or less on the commission's plan to treat gas as an environmentally sustainable and sustainable resource, but does not mention the paris climate agreement and the european union's energy and environment goals. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage. i support the commission's strategy of supporting the use of liquefied natural gas as an alternative fuel to conventional transport fuels, which are more polluting. i support the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism, which stresses that the eu lng strategy should be consistent with the framework strategy for a resilient energy union and that it should support greater security of energy supply.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the eu strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage. the internal energy market will fully integrate liquefied natural gas and gas storage and will play an important role in achieving the ultimate goal of a strong energy union. the eu lng strategy should be consistent with the framework strategy for a sustainable energy union and should therefore support greater security of energy supply, decarbonisation, long-term economic sustainability and the provision of affordable and competitive energy prices. the eu gas system needs to become more diverse and flexible, contributing to the key objective of the energy union, namely a reliable, resilient and competitive gas supply. parliament called on the commission to develop a strategy for the long-term reduction of the eu's dependence on gas imports, reflecting its commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80-95% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels. lng has the potential to be an alternative fuel in road and maritime transport and the wider use of lng in freight transport, in particular the wider use of lng engines in maritime transport, could contribute to reducing global co2, sox and nox emissions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on eu strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage. gas can play an important role in the eu energy system for the coming decades, in industrial production and as a source of heat in buildings and as a support to renewable energy while the eu meets its targets on greenhouse gas emissions, energy efficiency and renewables and makes the transition to a low-carbon economy in which the role of gas will gradually decrease in favour of clean energies. the report underlines that all eu citizens must have access to a secure and affordable energy supply and that an eu strategy for liquefied natural gas must be consistent with the framework strategy for a resilient energy union, so as to contribute to increased security of energy supply, decarbonisation, the long-term sustainability of the economy and the delivery of affordable and competitive energy prices. i voted in favour because i believe that finding cost-efficient and environmentally sustainable solutions should be a key principle in reaching the eu and regional optimum.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage. as the report concludes, the eu is still unable to fully reap the benefits of an integrated internal energy market, both because of insufficient connections and coordination and because of incomplete implementation of the third energy package. the eu strategy on liquefied natural gas and gas storage is one element of the energy union, which aims at a rapid transition of the eu to a sustainable, reliable and competitive energy system. the report calls, inter alia, for smart investment in the energy sector, the optimal use of existing lng terminals and the upgrading of missing infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on the inconsistencies in the frequency, duration, severity, thoroughness, effectiveness and methods of fisheries control in the european union and the need for equal and non-discriminatory treatment in all member states. the fisheries sector represents a huge part of the sustainable management of the seas and oceans and is therefore of great importance for the future of our environment. it is for this reason that effective control of fishing activities should be ensured with a view to the sustainable use of living marine resources and to maintaining the same conditions of control. the report calls on the member states to ensure the effective implementation of the control regulation and stresses that the european union's fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing worldwide should be more ambitious and coincide with the effective implementation of the control regulation in its waters. fishermen themselves also adopt rules if they consider them to be fair, reasonable and compatible with fishing practices. it is in this context that the european union must ensure that the rules are compatible with the fishing community and sustainable fishing. i believe that the report represents a step forward in this area and i have therefore supported it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a report on how to harmonise fisheries controls in europe. we need controls on fishing activities to ensure the sustainable use of living marine resources and to maintain a level playing field for all fleets in the european union. it is the member states that are responsible for the effective implementation of the control regulation. the report rightly notes that the european union's ambitious fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing around the world should coincide with the effective implementation of the control regulation in its waters, while clarifying, classifying and setting standards for fisheries in different marine areas.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on how to unify fisheries control in europe. fishermen often complain that their fishing controls are much stricter than those of their neighbours, whether in another member state or another fishing zone. furthermore, they claim to have the most regulated profession of all. this feeling of unfairness raises the question of the uniform application of the rules and their effectiveness. the existing union legislation should be simplified, starting with a revision of council regulation (ec) no 1224/2009 planned for 2017. the structure of the current regulation is too complex.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on how to make fisheries controls in europe uniform. the fisheries sector is a major stakeholder in the sustainable management of the seas and oceans. however, there is a need for stricter checks on products coming into the eu from illegal, unreported and unregulated fisheries and a need to guarantee an equivalent level of control on such fishing in all member states. the report stresses the importance of ensuring effective control of fisheries activities in order to guarantee sustainable exploitation of living marine resources and maintain a level playing field among eu fleets. i voted in favour because i believe that it is necessary to clarify, classify and establish standards for fishing in the different maritime areas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report 'how to harmonise fisheries control in europe?' the report stresses the importance of ensuring effective control of fishing activities to ensure the sustainable exploitation of living marine resources and maintain a level playing field for the eu fleet, and calls on the member states to ensure the effective implementation of the control regulation. i agree that the coherence of the single market should be ensured in all member states by establishing the same control requirements, with a uniform quality level of internal and external controls in the member states, irrespective of the border at which products enter the eu.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report because connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure have a strong impact on economic growth and competitiveness of the economy, as well as on employment and territorial cohesion in the eu and its regions. the system of transport links, however, in certain cases causes a stop and causes restrictions. by continuing to invest and develop transport infrastructure, we can significantly help the people and businesses in these regions. however, the effective use of these funds will require transparency and well-prepared projects. eastern europe in particular is experiencing serious difficulties in the transition to rail, as it is lagging behind in the establishment of modern railway infrastructure. here the european commission should continue to provide incentives and assistance to the lagging countries, otherwise we cannot expect to establish an efficient european rail network in the next two decades.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on the co-financing of transport projects in the member states located in central and eastern europe. the emphasis is on projects that are not sustainable, such as the alemania project, a road corridor that would link north-east italy to northern europe, or the via carpatica project in south-east bulgaria, which is opposed by local communities, and the increase in funding for regional airports. i believe that the connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure in the central and eastern parts of the european union needs to be improved, but in a better and different way than the report suggests. local communities, the environment and sustainable development must be taken into account. the development of transport hubs at any cost should not be the objective of the european union, but rather the need to design transport infrastructure in a sustainable way, which also has positive long-term financial implications. for these reasons, i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on better connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe. the need for economic and sustainable development principles must not be overlooked when improving the connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe. poor connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure have a negative impact on economic growth and competitiveness, as well as on employment and territorial cohesion in the european union and its regions. i welcome the recommendation that existing regional cooperation policies and instruments be better used to boost cross-border traffic between regions and to eliminate bottlenecks.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on better connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe. high-quality transport links are fundamental to economic activities in europe and to the quality of life of our citizens. easily accessible and well-connected transport networks with a local, regional, national and cross-border dimension in passenger and freight transport are the basis for promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion within and between eu member states. at eu level, the trans-european transport network (ten-t) aims to develop an integrated trans-european multimodal transport network and to promote the interconnection and interoperability of national networks, as well as access to them. the ten-t guidelines and the connecting europe facility (cef) established in 2013 have already set out the main pillars for the implementation of the eu transport infrastructure policy by the mid-2020s. member states and the eu will need to pool their resources and work closely together to set up and implement projects to finalise the strategic core network by 2030 and the comprehensive network by 2050.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on improving the connection and accessibility of the transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe. the report stresses the need to enhance the connectivity and accessibility of the infrastructure for transport to, from and within the central and eastern parts of the eu, taking into account the needs of the economy and the principles of sustainable development. it equally underlines the importance of coordinated project planning by and among member states, taking into account as far as possible national master transport plans and coordination with candidate countries. i voted in favour because i believe that this is the right time for the european parliament to further address open challenges regarding the accessibility and connectivity of the transport infrastructure in the member states of the central and eastern european part of the eu. quality transport links are fundamental for the economic activities in europe and for the quality of life of our citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on better connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe. transport infrastructure is still less developed in most regions of the central and eastern part of the eu compared to other european regions. as the connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure have a strong impact on economic growth and competitiveness, and on employment and territorial cohesion in the eu and its regions, there is a need to improve the connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure to, from and within the central and eastern parts of the eu. at the same time, the needs of the economy and the principles of sustainable development must be taken into account, and missing links must be established, bottlenecks eliminated and smooth links for long-distance and regional transport ensured.
in writing. ‒ since democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights are of great importance to the people of the european union, efforts must continue to protect the fundamental values and principles that enable democracy to flourish and ensure the protection of fundamental rights. the resolution therefore calls on the commission to establish a constructive dialogue with civil society, welcomes the reform of the court of justice to gradually increase the number of judges on the court and calls for the development of a cash grant in relation to democracy at local level. for these reasons, i support the report on the eu mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ the european union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities, which are included among its core principles. the union institutions and bodies and the member states should respect and lead by example in fulfilling their obligations and should strive for a common culture of the rule of law. the european parliament recommends the establishment of a comprehensive union mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, involving all relevant stakeholders, pending a corresponding amendment of the treaties. in its report, parliament therefore asks the commission to submit by september 2017, on the basis of article 295 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, a proposal for the conclusion of an eu pact for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in the form of an interinstitutional agreement setting out the arrangements to facilitate cooperation between the institutions of the union and its member states in this area. in view of recent developments in hungary and poland, where there is a persistent regression of certain fundamental freedoms and a lack of respect for the rule of law, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report with recommendations to the commission on the establishment of an eu mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. i support the call on the commission to submit a proposal by september next year for the conclusion of an eu pact for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, which must apply equally to all the institutions and member states, while respecting the principles of proportionality, subsidiarity and necessity. the commission's task is to monitor and assess the proper application of union law and the respect of the principles and objectives of the treaties. in addition to preventing and remedying violations of union values, we also need sanctions.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution with recommendations to the commission on the establishment of an eu mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. the european union has included democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights among its core principles and objectives in the first articles of the treaties and in the eu membership criteria. the union has a wide range of instruments to enforce its legislation and the treaties on important issues. although the eu has several instruments at its disposal to ensure respect for the principles of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, significant gaps remain and in practice these instruments are often limited in scope, inadequate and ineffective or unlikely to be used. in some cases, their unequal use is considered by many to be politically motivated, arbitrary and unfairly targeted at certain countries. there is no comprehensive mechanism for systematic, impartial and complete monitoring of all member states and their institutions. the proposed interinstitutional agreement aims to establish arrangements to facilitate cooperation between the eu institutions and the member states under article 7 teu and to link, harmonise and complement existing mechanisms. in addition, the agreement will provide for a comprehensive review mechanism applicable to all member states and the three main eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report with recommendations to the commission on the establishment of an eu mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. europe has a long tradition in the area of democracy, the rule of law and citizens’ rights. the european union has a wide range of instruments for the enforcement of its laws and treaties when it comes to material issues. while the eu has several existing instruments at its disposal to ensure the principles of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights are upheld, substantial gaps remain, and in practice such instruments are often limited in scope, inadequate and ineffective, or they are unlikely to be used. in some cases, their uneven application is perceived by many as politically motivated, arbitrary and unfairly targeting certain countries. there is no integrated mechanism for the systematic, impartial and complete monitoring of all eu member states and institutions. therefore, i believe, it is imperative to adopt a framework that enables the eu to address not only infringements to specific eu laws, but also (risk of) serious threats to democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report with recommendations to the commission on the establishment of an eu mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. i have long advocated the establishment of an effective mechanism to monitor the functioning of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in the member states. i believe that a politically independent mechanism is one of the key measures for the rule of law in the european union, so that abuses are no longer abused, especially in transition, post-socialist countries. but care must be taken that it is not used for political purposes, as has happened in the past in the case of hungary and elsewhere. if we fail to ensure the impartiality of the use of this mechanism, the citizens of the european union will reject such intervention by the european union and euroscepticism will continue to grow. ensuring the rule of law and effective independent judicial systems play a key role in creating a positive political environment that can restore confidence in the institutions and thus a friendly environment for investment and ensure greater regulatory predictability and sustainable growth.
in writing. the european commission's work programme presents the policies to which the european commission will devote particular attention in the coming year. it is certainly an important set of issues which i myself believe should be addressed in 2017. however, i would like to point out that the programme is not ambitious enough in the areas of demographic change, intergenerational cooperation and the rights of older people. these are areas that are hardly mentioned in the programme or are given far too little importance. it seems unacceptable to me that, at a time when europe is facing major demographic changes, the european institutions are not prepared to pay more attention to the ageing of the population and to take measures that will help ensure and preserve the basic dignity of older generations. we still lack a strategy to respond to demographic change at the level of europe, or the european union. this is despite experts warning that without appropriate policies on intergenerational cooperation, we can expect a constant conflict between the young and the old. in view of the above, i believe that the institutions of the european union are lagging behind in taking the necessary action in the field of demographic change. i therefore expect the european commission to devote more attention to this area in 2017 than envisaged in the 2017 work programme, as this is a problem of strategic importance.
we have a draft budget which, despite the limited resources, covers all the political priorities in a balanced way and ensures synergies between the different areas. the first is investment in jobs through the efsi, which is already showing some good results, and through the youth employment initiative. the second is addressing the migration crisis and ensuring security, for example with €7.5 million of additional funding for europol and a €25 million pilot project to improve defence research capabilities and cooperation between member states. this is a major project with synergistic effects in the field of defence and research. and a third more funding for knowledge in horizon 2020. to make the european union innovative and competitive in the long term. so we have a draft budget for the challenges of the present and the future. it's about restoring trust in people.
europe is still recovering from a long economic crisis, with growth still not reaching its desired levels and unemployment still very high, especially in some sectors. rapid and effective action is needed, particularly in the areas specifically highlighted in this report. in my view, member states are still under-using, at least some of them, the opportunities offered by investment funds, in particular the efsi. this would create a large number of new jobs and a more dynamic labour market, a better life for our citizens. i therefore call on the commission to do even more to encourage such investments and on the member states to put an end to bureaucratic obstacles. i would just like to point out one more thing, and that is that i have said time and again that the commission does not have the leverage to monitor the promises of the states to reform.
on an annual basis, tax evasion, as we have all seen, is costing us billions of euros that could be spent on more useful things, on education, on health, on creating jobs and on strengthening the economy. we must do everything we can to ensure that companies pay their taxes where they actually carry out their economic activity and contribute their fair share to the tax base. but to have a comprehensive overview of where businesses actually pay taxes, it is important that europe acts in a coordinated way, rather than with 28 different approaches. the new measures included in the commission's package will allow for greater coordination between member states and the exchange of the necessary information. i particularly welcome today's commission proposal, which finally proposes a consolidated tax base. it's a small victory, but a step in the right direction.
there are 40 times more people with special needs in europe than there are in my country. with an ageing population, we can expect their numbers to increase in the coming years. in this day and age, when the internet has become our main tool for accessing information, for communication and for services on the internet, i think that accessibility for all users, including people with special needs, should no longer be a topic of conversation, it should no longer be a question. in the light of the developments we have seen and continue to witness, it is unacceptable that such a large group of people still lacks equal access to digital products and services. this, of course, prevents them from having equal lives, equal participation in education in the digital society and, of course, in the labour market. i therefore welcome very warmly the fact that the provisions of this directive will require public authorities' websites and mobile applications to meet common european accessibility standards. this is one of the essential steps to ensure equality and prevent discrimination.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft general budget of the european union for 2017. the draft stresses that the budget 2017 has to be considered in the wider context of the mid-term revision of the multiannual financial framework (mff). it emphasises the importance of ensuring further support for candidate and potential candidate countries in adopting and implementing political, economic and social reforms; reminds that respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms and rule of law is essential for the enlargement process. moreover, it calls for increasing investment in the visibility of eu external action in order to strengthen the impact of funding in that field. in addition, it underlines that youth exchange programmes are one of the most successful measures to increase intercultural skills and to foster understanding and connectivity between people and countries. i voted in favour because i believe that the european instrument for democracy and human rights, including its support of election observation, are key for stability and prosperity in the world.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft general budget for 2017 as it appropriately provides for greater flexibility and increased resources for the needs of the migration challenge and the slow economic growth after the economic crisis. among other things, it strongly opposes cuts in the sector, which brings growth and jobs for citizens, especially young people. it supports the continued use of the esi funds and other funds and provides, inter alia, for specific measures to provide support to regions that may be affected by the uk's withdrawal from the union.
in writing. ‒ the priorities of the 2017 budget include jobs, growth and investment, the european response to the challenges of migration and the management of the fight against terrorism and organised crime. in line with the european agenda on security and migration, the eu budget will continue to support member states in their management of migration flows, the protection of the eu's external borders and the integrity of the schengen area, while maintaining a coordinated partnership with border regions and third countries. in addition to these priorities, the budget contains items representing progress towards a connected digital single market, a flexible energy union, a deeper and fairer internal market and the further development of economic and monetary union. the budget provides for a reasonable and balanced free trade agreement with the us and more resources for the eu in the field of external relations. the european parliament should increase its budget, particularly in the field of environmental policies and the fight against climate change. significant shifts should also be made in the area of european economic recovery and sustainable job creation. this year's budget also takes into account the environmental aspect already mentioned, and i have therefore decided to support it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the council's position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017. we have a draft budget which, despite the limited resources, covers all the political priorities in a balanced way and ensures synergies between the different areas. the first priority is investment in jobs through the efsi, and the second is tackling the migration crisis and ensuring security, for example with €7.5 million of additional funding for europol and a €25 million pilot project to improve defence research capacity and cooperation between member states. and thirdly, more funding for knowledge in horizon 2020 to make the eu innovative and competitive in the long term. so we have a draft budget for the challenges of the present and the future.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the council position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017. the 2017 budget needs to be seen in the wider context of the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework and to ensure a balance between long-term priorities and new challenges. the budget for 2017 should be in line with the eu's 2020 objectives, which offer a central direction and key priorities. in its examination of the 2017 budget, parliament took full account of the political priorities adopted by a large majority in its resolution of 9 march 2016 on the broad guidelines and its resolution of 6 july 2016 on the preparation of the ex post revision of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. the 2017 budget must meet the needs of the migration challenge and the slow economic growth following the economic crisis. there is a need to increase funding for research and infrastructure projects, as well as projects to tackle youth unemployment. it fully renews the connecting europe facility and horizon 2020. the total budgetary envelope for 2017 is eur 161,8 billion in commitments and eur 136,8 billion in payments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the council position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017. the report stresses that budget 2017 has to be considered in the wider context of the mid-term revision of the multiannual financial framework (mff). it underlines the need to ensure a balance between long-term priorities and new challenges and emphasises therefore that budget 2017 has to be in line with the eu2020 targets, which represent its main orientation and overarching priority. i voted in favour because i believe that the report fully reflects the political priorities adopted by an overwhelming majority in its resolution of 9 march 2016 on general guidelines and its resolution of 6 july 2016 on the ‘preparation of the post-electoral revision of the mff 2014-2020: parliament’s input ahead of the commission’s proposal’.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the position of the council on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017. as the report states, the 2017 budget must meet the needs of the migration challenge and the slow economic growth after the economic crisis. i also agree that there is a need to increase funding for research and infrastructure projects, as well as projects to tackle youth unemployment. as the priorities of the 2017 budget include jobs, growth and investment, the european response to the challenges of migration and the management of the fight against terrorism and organised crime, i have decided to support it.
in writing. ‒ i agreed with the resolution on the mid-term review of the mff and supported it at this plenary session, as it envisages many good changes or additions to existing policies in the mff. the audit supported, inter alia, the commission's proposal to establish an eu crisis reserve as a rapid response instrument to crises and events with serious humanitarian or security consequences. it encourages further investment in european youth through the eu budget, such as the recently proposed interrail ticket programme. it proposes reforms to the own resources system, including the introduction of new own resources sources, which will significantly reduce the share of contributions to the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework presents a unique opportunity to respond to the crises currently afflicting the european union. since the adoption of the said financial framework in 2013, the union has not fully recovered in economic and social terms. the european fund for strategic investments was launched and the european union has taken on new commitments (the paris agreement), and the new financial framework should therefore take account of these changes. the report proposes an increase in the budget for most priorities and a more environmentally friendly budget in general, while calling for more flexibility and supporting the commission's proposal in this area. in the light of the recent decision of the united kingdom to withdraw from the european union, the audit also mentions the financial aspects of this process and introduces a change in the management of the funds for the next financial framework, which will start in 2020. i think that the report is a good compromise, and i have therefore supported the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution at the end of the debate on the commission statement on the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. we are facing a number of challenges that could not have been foreseen in the preparation of the mff, in particular the migration or refugee crisis. to respond adequately to all these challenges, we will need substantial additional funds from the european budget. the eu budget must be in line with the political commitments and strategic objectives of the european union: migration challenges and slow economic growth after the economic crisis, funding for research and infrastructure projects as well as projects to tackle youth unemployment
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. the authorising revision of the mff is one of parliament's main demands in the negotiations for the establishment of the current financial framework, and it therefore welcomes the commission's decision to propose a revision of the mff regulation and the interinstitutional agreement after having reviewed the operation of the mff for the period 2014-2020. the commission's proposal for amounts is estimated at eur 12.8 billion and consists of several parts. the additional funding will be for horizon 2020 and ipe-travel (both €0.4 billion), erasmus+ and cosme (both €0.2 billion) and the youth employment initiative (€1 billion), which together represent €2.2 billion of new funding. the successful implementation of the eu budget is parliament's top priority. the mid-term review of the mff also marks the start of the process to reach an agreement on the post-2020 mff.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the mid-term revision. the resolution stresses the european parliament’s constant concern regarding the insufficiency of resources available under the current multiannual financial framework (mff). the number of new crises and have emerged over the past years, notably the migration and refugee crisis. it equally underlines, after conducting a review of the functioning of the mff in the first half of this programming period, that an adequate response to those challenges requires a substantial amount of additional funding from the eu budget that could not have been fully provided in the first years of the current perspective owing to the scarce financial resources available under the current mff. i voted in favour because i believe that the eu budget must match the political commitments and strategic objectives of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. i agree that the revision of the mff is a unique opportunity to respond to the budgetary problems that are currently challenging the credibility of the european union. we need a more transparent eu budget that is easier for european citizens to understand in order to rebuild trust. i therefore join the call to the council to take responsibility, to align its words and actions and to provide a realistic, credible, coherent and sustainable eu budget for the remaining years of the current perspective.
in writing. ‒ as usual with the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund, i have also joined the aid support. the european union has adopted legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of global change, and this is an appropriate solidarity support. the case concerned the occurrence of overwork in estonia, resulting from redundancies in the economic sectors of coke and petroleum products production and the production of chemicals and chemical products. the measures are expected to involve 800 of the 1,550 redundant workers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. in the coke and petroleum products sector of the economy, redundancies have occurred in estonia and estonia has therefore applied for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund. the measures are expected to involve between 800 and 1550 redundant workers. as estonia fulfils all the conditions to receive funding from the european globalisation adjustment fund, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows. on 28 september 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of estonia to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in the enterprises eesti energia as, nitrofert as and viru keemia grupp as, classified in nace revision 2 division 19 (production of chemicals and chemical products) in the county of ida-virumaa (at nuts level 2: ee00- eesti). this is the ninth application to be examined under the 2016 budget, for a total amount of eur 1 131 358 from the egf for estonia. it's about 800 overworked people. in order to mobilise the fund, the commission submitted to the budgetary authority a request for a transfer of a total amount of eur 1 131 358 from the egf reserve.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (application from estonia – egf/2016/003 ee/petroleum and chemicals). the european globalisation adjustment fund has been created in order to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of estonia to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant to eesti energia as, nitrofert as and viru keemia grupp as operating in the nace rev. 2 division this is the ninth application to be examined under the 2016 budget. it concerns 800 workers made redundant. 19 (manufacture of chemicals and chemical products) in the ida-virumaa county (nuts level 2: ee00 – eesti). according to the commission, the described measures constitute active labour market measures within the eligible actions set out in article 7 of the egf regulation. i voted in favour because i believe that the coordinated package of measures is compatible with the shift towards a resource-efficient and sustainable economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. estonia submitted an application egf/2016/003 ee/petroleum and chemicals for a financial contribution from the egf, in respect of redundancies. estonia is therefore entitled to a financial contribution of eur 1 131 358 covering support for formal education, payment of training costs, reimbursement of employers' training costs, labour market training, work experience, debt counselling, psychological counselling, study allowance in connection with participation in formal education, scholarships and transport and accommodation allowances for learning estonian.
in writing. ‒ this 2012 proposal aims to remove unnecessary barriers in the internal market resulting from fragmented access approaches, in particular in the digital administration segment and public administration websites. the commission proposal sets out the technical details that allow member states to make the content of certain types of websites more accessible. the harmonised access standard should be technologically neutral in the future, so that it can be used on different devices with different software. the proposal is limited to certain parts of public administration and digital administration, as the commission expects spill-over effects from these areas. negotiations with the european council have shown that the council is trying to exclude as many areas as possible for potential harmonisation, with a compromise being reached which includes, inter alia, limited exclusions on material that would impose a disproportionate burden on public administrations, the definition of a public administration body taken from the public procurement directives and the applications to be included by default. the modernisation of public administration throughout the european union is of great importance. at the same time, it is good that all member states are involved in certain innovations. for all these reasons, i voted for the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the accessibility of the websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies. in recent years, the internet has become a key to access information and services. it's important that we make the web accessible to everyone. i welcome the pan-european rules for more accessible public sector websites and mobile applications, especially for the blind, deaf and hard of hearing. the digital single market must serve all citizens, and a common approach to ensuring online accessibility is a step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft legislative resolution on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the accessibility of the websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies. online accessibility is very important for public sector bodies as it enables them to extend their reach and fulfil their public responsibilities. the number of websites providing egovernment services (approximately 380 500 in the eu) and public sector websites (over 761 000 in the eu) is growing rapidly. most member states have already adopted legislation or other measures for online accessibility. however, there are major differences between these laws and measures. non-harmonised national approaches to online accessibility create barriers in the internal market. the proposed harmonisation of national public sector measures at eu level is a necessary condition to address the fragmentation of the framework and the lack of confidence in the online accessibility market. harmonisation will create better market conditions, more jobs, cheaper internet access and more accessible websites: a triple benefit for the public sector, businesses and citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the accessibility of the websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies. the new directive aims at the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states on the accessibility of websites from public sector bodies. the directive supports member states to achieve their national commitments regarding web-accessibility as well as their commitment to the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities regarding websites of public sector bodies. web-accessibility refers to principles and techniques to be observed when constructing websites, in order to render the content of these websites accessible to all users, in particular those with disabilities. i voted in favour because i believe that in a harmonised framework, the web-developers industry should face fewer barriers to operate in the internal market, while costs for governments and others procuring web-accessibility products and services should be reduced.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the accessibility of the websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies (09389/1/2016 c8-0360/2016 2012/0340(cod)) (ordinary legislative procedure: second reading). this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase, hire or leasing of equipment and installations, the purchase, hire or leasing of equipment and installations, the purchase, hire or leasing of equipment and installations, the purchase, hire or leasing of equipment and installations, the purchase, hire or leasing of equipment and installations, the purchase, hire or leasing of equipment and installations, the purchase, hire or leasing of equipment and installations, the purchase, hire or leasing of equipment and installations, the purchase, hire or leasing of equipment and installations, the purchase, hire or leasing of equipment and installations, the purchase, hire or leasing of equipment and installations, the purchase, hire or leasing of equipment and installations, the purchase, hire or leasing of equipment and installations, the purchase, hire or leasing of equipment and installations, the purchase, hire or leasing of equipment and installations, and the cost of maintenance and repair.
in writing. ‒ the recommendation contains a proposal for strict rules on protection against the spread of pests. the problem with such rules is, of course, the link between pests and seeds, as the spread of pests can also limit the storage and exchange of seeds. outbreaks of diseases and pests affecting individual plant species and crops are likely to be contained by new rules, currently under negotiation, which will provide for strict controls. this raises concerns about the adverse consequences for seed storage and the conservation of certain plant species, which are based on the diversity of domestic seeds and the exchange of seeds between farmers. although certain exceptions should be provided for in the implementation of the new rules, discussions with the directorate-general for health and food safety (dg sante) have shown that these exceptions will be provided for only in the years 2020 to 2025. the main concerns related to the proposed scheme relate in particular to the registration of seed producers who could endanger small growers, the registration of plant species and the introduction of so-called plant and seed passports. at the same time, the commission has hardly consulted ngos working in this field on the challenges. for all the reasons mentioned and the many problems associated with the proposal, despite the good intentions behind the regulation of this area, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the alde group's proposal to reject the recommendation for a second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on plant protection measures, amending regulations of the european parliament and of the council and repealing council directives. the regulation has a very clear objective to protect european production from harmful organisms imported from other countries. we should be careful about what one country imports, because importing plants into one country could cause problems in other countries. we must combat the risks posed by unknown plants, particularly in view of their potential harmfulness.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft legislative resolution on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on plant protection measures. plant health is a key factor in ensuring sustainable and competitive agriculture, horticulture and forestry. healthy seeds and propagating material are needed to ensure the profitability of agricultural crops, jobs, innovation in crop production and food security. the unique feature of the eu plant health regime (phs) is its openness: movements of plants and plant products into and through the union are allowed, provided that specific restrictions and requirements are respected. nevertheless, due to the high volume of imports from other continents, there is a high likelihood of future outbreaks of non-indigenous harmful organisms. the assessment of the regime (2010) showed that changes to the basic legislation will be necessary to address such increased risks in a comprehensive manner. this regulation is part of a package of audits related to plant health, the quality of plant reproductive material, animal health, official controls on plants, animals, food and feed and union expenditure related to those policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protective measures against pests of plants, amending regulations (eu) no 228/2013, (eu) no 652/2014 and (eu) no 1143/2014 of the european parliament and of the council and repealing council directives 69/464/eec, 74/647/eec, 93/85/eec, 98/57/ec, 2000/29/ec, 2006/91/ec and 2007/33/ec. the aim of the regulation is to curb the growing influx into the eu of plant pests, such as olive grove killer xylella fastidiosa, and better equip member states to tackle their spread. the new regulation introduces preventive and rapid response mechanisms for suspect plant imports, steps up pest surveillance efforts in the eu and requires all member states to draw up outbreak contingency plans. i voted in favour because i strongly believe that all member states must establish multi-annual survey programmes to ensure timely detection of dangerous pests and contingency plans for each pest capable of entering their territory.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protective measures against organisms harmful to plants, amending regulations (eu) no 228/2013, (eu) no 652/2014 and (eu) no 1143/2014 of the european parliament and of the council and repealing council directives 69/464/eec, 74/647/eec, 93/85/eec, 98/57/ec, 2000/29/ec, 2006/91/ec and 2007/33/ec (08795/2/2016 c8-0364/2016 2013/0141 ((cod)). the recommendation contains a proposal for strict rules on pest control.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the implementation of the european semester priorities because europe still faces a large investment deficit and therefore needs to increase domestic demand and address macroeconomic imbalances. uncertainty and thus the decline in investment has been exacerbated by political events such as the outcome of the uk referendum, relations with russia and uncertainties in the development of the global economy. the commission also noted that the increase in the number of newly-invested companies in the union was due to the increase in the number of newly-invested companies in the union. this is why investments that have an important job-creating function need to be increased. the european union, on the other hand, faces 10.5 million longterm unemployed people who need to find jobs.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on investment and highlights the need to increase investment in education, human capital, innovation and research, which could be the focus of eu policy. the report mentions avoiding the so-called race to the bottom regarding wages and employment standards. this is what i believe is crucial for the future policy of the european union, because if we adopt a different strategy, it will be jobs based on minimum wages and precarious conditions that will emerge, and this cannot lead to inclusive and fair growth. as the report notes, the european union will not be able to achieve its poverty reduction targets by 2020. the report focuses mainly on structural reforms, which cannot provide the recipe for growth on their own, but must be accompanied by social policies. i supported the report because of the inclusion of points of importance for the field of social policy at the level of the european union and the important mention of increasing investment in the fields of education and human capital.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination: implementing the priorities for 2016. despite the introduction of the fund for strategic investments, europe still faces a lack of investment and there is a need to increase investment in the eu. i agree that the challenges facing the eu are linked to the deteriorating international environment, the failure to implement sustainable reforms and the disparities in economic and social performance in different parts of the union. by supporting investment for innovation, growth and job creation, the european commission is taking a step in the right direction and could do more in the area of fiscal sustainability under the stability and growth pact, as the report rightly points out.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the european semester for economic policy coordination: implementing the priorities for 2016. the eu's economic growth is lower than expected on the basis of the 2016 spring european economic forecast, with euro area gdp forecast to grow by only 1,6%. the ongoing current account surpluses indicate the need to stimulate demand and investment, in particular in the long term, in order to cope with future challenges in the areas of transport and communications, the digital economy, education, innovation and research, climate change, energy, environmental protection and population ageing. further measures are needed to increase access to finance, in particular for smes, and to reduce non-performing loans in the euro area in line with eu legislation, in order to improve banks' balance sheets and thus increase the ability of banks to lend to the real sector. monetary policy must be accompanied by appropriate fiscal policies to boost growth in the eu, in line with the rules of the stability and growth pact, including the flexibility provisions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination: implementation of 2016 priorities. europe still faces a major investment deficit, and the need is to increase internal demand and correct macroeconomic imbalances, while further increasing investment in the eu. unemployment in general remains one of the main challenges that member states are facing. the report notes with concern that the eu economy will grow less than expected on the basis of the european economic spring forecast 2016, as gdp in the eurozone is expected to increase by only 1.6%, reaching 1.8% by 2017. moreover, it stresses that the challenges in the eu are linked to the deteriorating international environment, the failure to implement sustainable reforms and the divergences in the economic and social performance in different parts of the union. i voted in favour because i believe that further measures are needed to increase financing opportunities, notably for smes, and to reduce non-performing loans (npls), in the euro area and in conformity with eu legislation, in order to make bank balance sheets sounder and thereby increase the ability of banks to lend to the real economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the european semester for economic policy coordination: implementation of the priorities for 2016. the findings suggest that eu economic growth will be lower than expected on the basis of the 2016 spring european economic forecast, with euro area gdp forecast to grow by only 1,6%. the european economic crisis has shown the importance of promoting investment in areas such as education, innovation, research and development, while increasing the eu's competitiveness through the implementation of sustainable structural reforms to promote quality job creation and the implementation of responsible fiscal policies to create a better environment for jobs, enterprises (especially smes) and investment. i agree that further measures are needed to increase access to finance, in particular for smes, and to reduce non-performing loans in the euro area in line with eu legislation, in order to improve banks' balance sheets and thus increase the ability of banks to lend to the real sector. monetary policy should also be accompanied by appropriate fiscal policies to boost growth in the eu, in line with the rules of the stability and growth pact, including the flexibility provisions.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution on trans-fatty acids has my support. in fact, frequent consumption of trans fats is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease, infertility, gallstones, alzheimer' s disease and diabetes, obesity, and some cancers. further research shows that only one in three consumers in the eu are aware of trans-fatty acids and that measures to label the content of these fatty acids are ineffective. eu legislation does not regulate the content of trans-fatty acids in food and does not require their labelling. the effectiveness of these restrictions is demonstrated by danish legislation, which tightened the permitted content of trans-fatty acids in oils and fats to 2% in 2003. as a result, the number of deaths from cardiovascular disease has decreased significantly.
in writing. ‒ trans-fatty acids are unsaturated fats that can be found in food made from ruminants and in industrially produced food that has been partially hydrogenated. consumption of oils containing such fats is associated with increased risks of cardiovascular disease. high intakes of such foods are risk factors for developing coronary heart disease, which is responsible for around 660,000 deaths per year or otherwise - as much as 14% of all deaths in the european union each year. trans-fatty acids lower the price of the final product and are therefore mainly used in the preparation of fast food, certain snack foods and other highly processed foods. denmark was the first country to restrict the use of trans-fatty acids back in 2003 and has already achieved a reduction in cardiovascular disease. in a report published in december 2015, the european commission took note of the situation and indicated that it would seek to limit the use of trans-fatty acids in the european union and announced its expected results. to date, the european commission has not taken any action in this area, and the european parliament has therefore prepared a proposal to restrict its application. as these are substances with a high long-term impact on health, i supported the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the oral questions on trans-fatty acids. the content of trans fatty acids in food has already been significantly reduced at voluntary level, but unfortunately not everywhere. and even where this content has been reduced, consumption in certain groups of the population, in young people, in people with low incomes, is still too high. when we talk about staple foods like milk and meat, we can't talk about the trans fatty acid content being harmful because it's contained in such small amounts that it's not harmful to health. the resolution states that we know of some negative effects of trans fatty acids and that it is time to act.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on trans-fatty acids. trans-fatty acids are a specific type of unsaturated fat naturally present in ruminant-derived foods such as dairy products and meat, certain plants and plant products, and are found in particular in industrially produced partially hydrogenated vegetable oils. in 2010, the european food safety authority concluded that trans-fatty acids derived from ruminants have similar effects to those of the industrial products covered by this resolution. it has been shown that limiting the content of trans-fatty acids can have rapid and significant health benefits. unfortunately, only one in three consumers in the eu are aware of trans-fatty acids, which shows that measures to label the content of these acids have not been effective and that measures to raise awareness in the education system and media campaigns are needed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on trans fats (tfas). trans fats or trans-fatty acids (tfas) are a type of unsaturated fatty acid that have been widely used in the food industry since the 1950s. foods that may be high in trans fats include ready-made meals, frying fat for industrial use, margarine used in pastry, pre-packed bakery products, cakes, biscuits and wafers, microwave popcorn, deep-fried foods and soups and sauces. international studies show that policies aimed at restricting the tfa content of food entailing reducing tfa levels without increasing total fat content are feasible, achievable and likely to have a positive effect on public health. the european union does not currently have legislation regulating the content of trans fats in food products or requiring their labelling. i voted in favour because i believe that the eu should introduce legal limits on the amount of industrial trans fats in processed food what would reduce exposure to the biggest sources of trans fats and save lives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on trans-fatty acids. it has been shown that limiting the content of trans-fatty acids can have rapid and significant health benefits. the findings show that only one in three consumers in the eu are aware of trans-fatty acids, indicating that measures to label the content of these acids have not been effective and that measures to raise awareness in the education system and media campaigns are needed.
i think that of course public confidence is also strengthened by the rational and correct use of public funds and that is why the reports that the court of auditors sends to the public are all the more important. i think we should also point out that the role of internal auditors in the member states needs to be increased and thus the risk of error reduced, and thus the error rate could be reduced to below 2.5%, which is already close to the threshold of significance. but it's true that the error rate... is not the complete answer to how we've spent the funds. so, of course, there's still a lot of room for questions about expediency, efficiency. and of course i would also strongly recommend that the court of auditors carry out as many follow-up audits as possible to test the implementation of its recommendations. so it's not every year that the report is compiled again.
fifteen million people, including children, are fleeing war zones. of course, these include children, both those with and without a companion, and these children need to be adequately protected. those who are unaccompanied must be provided with additional security, including guardianship and appropriate legal representation. many of them never make it to the finish line. 15,000 children are lost along the way, ending up in slavery or even dead. these kids are exhausted, they're broke, and they really need our help. what kind of society are we if we can't stand by them? and the age limit for these children started to fall significantly from 2009. now, among the children, there are very, very young and also small, and we must never deprive them of their future.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i am grateful to have the opportunity to intervene in this debate on behalf of the council. the divergence between our two institutions on how to organise the discharge in relation to the council’s budget is not new. however, i believe that there are a number of recent developments which, at least in the medium term, would allow us to move forward. according to article 319 of the treaty, ‘the european parliament, acting on a recommendation from the council, shall give a discharge to the commission in respect of the implementation of the budget’. the treaty and the financial regulation enumerate the documents to be examined during the discharge procedure. the council has always rigorously respected these provisions. the treaty procedure is specific to the eu institutional system. nevertheless, in keeping with procedures in member states, discharge is not given between the different arms of a budgetary authority. the parliament has over the years developed a political practice of voting separate discharge resolutions for individual institutions and organs. in 2010 the council proposed a memorandum of understanding between the two institutions in order to organise our cooperation. this standing invitation to a discussion has not been taken up by parliament so far. let me turn to the more positive and encouraging recent developments. this year we have made a big step towards increased transparency of the financially-relevant activities of all eu institutions. since june, the annual activity reports of all authorising officers by delegation are publicly available on each institution’s website, including, of course, the council. this is the result of last year’s agreement between parliament and the council to amend the financial regulation. everybody now has access to core documents, which analyse the activities on which the institutions spend money. that is why the council was a bit surprised to see, in your draft resolution, the reference to parliament not having received the council’s annual activity report. i guess that this is probably left over from previous years. a number of other suggestions formulated in parliament’s draft resolution have also already become reality, for example the existence of rules concerning whistleblowing, integrity and ethics of officials in the general secretariat of the council. i would like to underline that, in the spirit of the proposed memorandum of understanding between our institutions that i mentioned before, the council is open to dialogue with parliament on concrete issues. i hear that in the area of building policy there have already been some contacts in the past. let us work together on these positive experiences. allow me a word on budget scrutiny. your report says that the expenditure of the council must be scrutinised in the same way as other institutions, and on occasion, statements made by some members of the european parliament have created the impression that the council budget would escape all control. this is not true. it is as if the treaty procedure, the court of auditors’ scrutiny and all the other documents and reports i mentioned before, did not exist. this is not helpful. it is even misleading. european citizens expect us to ensure the regularity, legality and efficiency of eu finances, and in this we either succeed together or we fail together. citizens are not interested in quarrels between the eu institutions. i am confident that we are going in the right direction. as far as the implementation of the council budget 2014 is concerned, the court of auditors has once again confirmed that no significant weaknesses were detected. the council’s accounts did not give rise to any observations. i think it is important to have that in mind in this debate and when you cast your vote.
member of the commission. – madam president, let me first thank the rapporteurs, mr czarnecki and mr marinescu, for their reports. the commission takes note of the proposal submitted by the committee on budgetary control to the plenary to grant discharge to the joint technology initiative and embedded computing system artemis joint undertaking. the joint technology initiative on nan electronics eniac joint undertaking, the international thermonuclear experimental reactor fusion for energy joint undertaking and to refuse discharge to the european council and council for the financial year 2014. as for the discharge to the european council and council, the commission notes with regret this dispute between the two arms of the budgetary authorities, which has lasted for seven years now, thus preventing a suitable solution from being reached. the commission can only encourage them to cooperate with a view to ironing out all their difficulties and to work towards a smooth functioning of the discharge procedure in full respect of the relevant provisions in the treaty and in related secondary law. the commission is happy to note that parliament’s committee on budgetary control agrees that the ecsel joint undertaking, which is the successor of artemis and eniac, as mr marinescu just said, has in a satisfactory manner implemented actions to address the remarks of the budgetary authorities and therefore proposes to grant discharge for the year 2014. the commission reiterates that in the ecsel joint undertaking a structural solution is found for verification and ex post audit of any new expenditure related to horizon 2020. in fact, parliament already granted discharge to ecsel on 28 april 2016. the commission will, as a member of the governing board of ecsel, continue to closely monitor the actions undertaken by the joint undertaking, inter alia to gain sufficient data on the quality of the control systems in place by the member states and on the individual transactions. the commission will also continue to share its experience in audit matters. finally, the commission reiterates that the public-private partnership, using a tripartite model that pools member state and eu funding with industrial investments, as implemented in artemis and eniac and now in ecsel, gives europe a competitive edge in the domain of electronic components and systems. the commission also welcomes the proposal to grant discharge to the joint undertaking fusion for energy. iter is a major international scientific collaboration in the energy field, in which the european union has assumed a strategic leading role. looking back at developments since 2006, when the iter organisation was set up to jointly implement this project at international level, it should be recognised that iter has faced many challenges, in particular in terms of technology, iter being the first of a kind, project management, and risk of schedule slippage and cost increase. but, these challenges aside, iter is one of the most promising solutions to future energy demand that can contribute to addressing global warming and climate change. it is for this very significant reason that the international partners, with the major thrust of the european union, have spared no efforts to change the way the project has been managed and implemented. during recent years radical changes have been jointly decided and successfully applied to stabilise the project and address the concerns on delays and cost overruns. a new management has been put in place in the iter organisation and in fusion for energy and coordinated action plans have been endorsed to ensure a closer corporation. progress is now evident on the site, in particular in the construction of buildings under european responsibility. in addition and following the initiative of the european union, this progress is now reviewed against a set of identified milestones for the activities with clear deadlines. a robust risk management system is also in place to reduce risk and address possible problems. one of the partners’ main efforts has been the revision of the project’s schedule and its associated costs in june 2016. this revision set up solid and reliable grounds to complete the iter construction successfully and enable the european union to respect the budget for the construction phase of iter until 2020, eur 6.6 billion in 2008 values. the improvements brought to the project are now reversing the project’s past trend. they enable iter to remain one of the major international energy research projects and allow the european union to keep its support and leadership of this project. these improvements, in particular since 2015, have also been confirmed by a different independent review in mid-2016. at european level fusion for energy is now also in a better shape to deliver the eu contribution to the project. let me add that through its contracts and grants european industry is fully involved in designing, building and delivering thousands of first of a kind technological components and carrying out research projects in support of the construction of this unique device. already in its current construction phase iter is therefore creating jobs and growth for european industry. with your favourable vote on the discharge you will enable the joint undertaking to continue providing, on behalf of europe, a key contribution to the success of iter. i thank you for your support and look forward to the continued dialogue between the commission and parliament to make iter a success and a win for securing a sustainable energy source for the future.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. to begin with, i could of course agree fully with mr zdechowski, who has described this relationship between parliament and, of course, the council very well. i regret that in all these years we have not found a way to make the council more transparent in reporting to parliament on its activities. it is also regrettable that the council was not prepared to communicate its data to cont (committee on budgetary control) this year, nor did it wish to be present at the hearing itself. what everyone else has done, including the commission and the european parliament itself. and i think that comprehensive progress is needed in this area, otherwise we will insist on what the council representatives themselves have said that this does not inspire and does not increase citizens' trust in the european institutions. and this trust can only be strengthened by more transparent action and, of course, by a more open attitude, including that of the council, towards parliament itself. about the discharge. the suspension of the discharge is a political yellow card, and the non-discharge is a red card. and tomorrow, when you vote, keep in mind that, in fact, artemis and eniac, in the opinion of the court of auditors, the european court of auditors, had quite a few problems with transparency and consistency of financial reporting. and then of course, iter, which has had problems with the discharge for several years, so i suggest that it not be granted tomorrow.
mr commissioner, mr president, mr costa, volunteering is an expression of solidarity and responsibility, it contributes to greater involvement of citizens, personal development and, in our case, strengthens european values. it is an important tool for informal learning and training. volunteers often help those who need it most, but they also develop a sense of usefulness. it goes without saying that volunteering is also a great opportunity for those who are not integrated into the school system or the labour market. but maybe in this environment, they'll find a new opportunity. but volunteering can also serve as a good example of intergenerational integration, and it is good and right that the european parliament should address this issue. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs costi, on her initiative. i regret that we did not opt for a different parliamentary procedure, which would have given us more time to prepare a text of even higher quality and coherence. this year marks the fifth anniversary of the european year of volunteering and the 20th anniversary of the european voluntary service, which we have heard several times today, and in 2014 was included in the umbrella european programme erasmus+, for which i am the permanent rapporteur. i can say that we are dealing with a success story in the european union, one of the few. as the permanent rapporteur on the implementation of erasmus+, i can add that we are proud of this programme, also because it is not limited to young people but also includes older people. i am currently preparing a report on the implementation of erasmus+. the general conclusion is that, despite some shortcomings, all stakeholders are satisfied with the new programme. despite the 40% increase in funding in this financial perspective, in practice we find that the needs for participation in the different erasmus+ sub-programmes are much greater than the financial possibilities. it is already clear that the potential of erasmus+ will need to be increased in the future. the european voluntary service is a great service with clear frameworks. for example, the organisations that operate in it sign the quality charter. the participating volunteers, aged between 17 and 30, shall be dedicated exclusively to volunteering activities for a period of between two weeks and one year. it is known that the esf covers travel and subsistence expenses, insurance and allowances for participants. let me mention a few more facts about the making of this document. the evs has already involved more than 100,000 volunteers, as mentioned earlier. this number alone tells us that the european commission's communication strategy on the esf is not as bad as it is trying to make it out to be. a smaller part of the text in the resolution refers to this service, while a disproportionately larger part is devoted by the rapporteur to volunteering at national level and in general. therefore, we have extended the initial title of the 'evs resolution' to 'resolution on the evs and the promotion of volunteering in europe', which is more in line with the actual content of the resolution. in addition, while many texts are aimed at organisations involved in volunteering, it might be good to have even more texts aimed at end-users, i.e. the volunteers themselves. it is well known that in different countries we have different traditions of volunteering. in some cases, the state has a large role to play, while in others it is entirely in the hands of voluntary organisations or civil society. or something in between. these facts give rise to differences, and we must never overlook this. but we have a common task ahead of us: to increase the capacity for international volunteer exchange, and we must therefore strengthen european voluntary service. in conclusion, the resolution is good enough, it is well-intentioned and i hope we will support it. (the speaker agreed to accept the question raised by the blue card (rule 162 (8)).
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. you're right. the potential for volunteering is much greater than we can establish in the various institutional channels and structures that exist, but nevertheless, one service, as we have had for two decades now in the european union, is an incentive to make it even easier for young people to volunteer at different levels. i particularly appreciate the work you mentioned in greece, in helping the civil service to manage the refugee and migrant crisis, but the fact is that volunteering is a private matter, a civil society matter, and the state can, in various ways, including financial aid, simply help young people to practice this virtue.
at a time when we dream of having a whole range of functions that make our lives easier performed by robots, we must realize today that the hands of a human being, a fellow human being, ready to help his neighbor, are irreplaceable, even today in italy, which was hit by the earthquake. for twenty years, the european voluntary service has been an organised service, motivating more than 100,000 members, especially young people, to come to the aid of others when needed, to enrich the local community with their enthusiasm, to sharpen their organisational skills, to strengthen their sense of teamwork, to increase their prospects of breakthrough in future careers. it is truly impressive to know that 100 million people are involved in volunteering in europe and that their work contributes 5% of the total gdp. in expressing my support for the resolution, i think it is particularly important to stress that the voluntary sector needs a clear and simple flow of information to inform volunteers in the member states of the possibilities of co-financing programmes by the european union. i therefore support the proposal to set up a single and active information point within the european commission. it would be useful for the commission to commission an analysis of national volunteering schemes and to produce a good practice map, which would thus be made available to all and receive appropriate financial support. we humans are the earth's treasure, irreplaceable in our kindness and generosity. that's why the better ones among us deserve understanding and support.
the youth strategy should be the foundation of current european policy. its main objectives are very important for our society: to provide more opportunities for young people in education and the labour market and to encourage them to participate actively in society as a whole. in the next cycle of the strategy, member states must take a more determined approach to achieving the objectives. more concrete measures should be taken, such as promoting entrepreneurship among young people. it is necessary to introduce traineeships, apprenticeships and vocational training to acquire the relevant skills and competences, which of course respond to the current and timely needs of the labour market. it is also essential and of paramount importance to align training programmes with employment policies and labour market demand.
we like to say that young people are our future, but all too often this is just at the level of a flask. i very much support what has been written and what is written in this report, and certainly job creation and work is what young people want most and what young people in europe today also miss most. that is why i am very much in favour of young people being trained today, together with the school system and various other policies, for jobs that have a 21st century perspective, that have a digital world perspective. i'm of the opinion that the school system is flawed. the lack of a dual system, which is what is most preventing young people from getting jobs in europe today, and from there, young people are on their own. so i hope that this recommendation, this report, will help to create these very important policies.
i thank you for your speech and i thank my colleague eric andrieu for his report, in which he highlighted the very important area of employment and the link between rural employment and agriculture. we are all following these trends, which are similar across europe, namely the number of farms is decreasing, it is becoming increasingly difficult for young people to take an interest in farming. i therefore believe that one of the measures we have in agricultural policy, the measure for young farmers, is one of the best in quality and also one of the best in results. because the slovenian countryside and, of course, the european countryside need young people, new knowledge, new approaches, because i am afraid that it will be very difficult to resist modern trends in the old, traditional way. i myself believe that digitisation is also something that, together with rural mobility, should be placed in the context of agricultural policy, regional policies, and thus also improve employment in rural areas.
in writing. ‒ in this case, i have supported the non-discharge to the secretary-general of the council in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council. the discharge was not granted because of the lack of oversight and failure to comply with previous recommendations. i also believe that the european council and the council, as institutions of the union, should be democratically accountable to the citizens of the union, since they receive funds from the general budget of the european union. i also agree that the budget of the european council and the council should be kept separate, that a code of conduct should be adopted as soon as possible, that the union should participate in the transparency register and that detailed anti-corruption guidelines and independent policies should be developed within its structures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the second discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section ii european council and council. we cannot give the secretary-general of the council a discharge on the implementation of the budget, as there are many questions that remain open. the european council and the council have not submitted their annual activity reports to the european parliament, which is unacceptable, and the budget of the european council and the council has not yet been separated, as the european parliament has recommended in recent discharge resolutions. of course, effective budgetary control requires the necessary cooperation between the council and the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the proposal for a decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section ii european council and council. all union institutions should operate in a transparent manner and be fully accountable to union citizens for the use of the funds entrusted to them as union institutions. the european council and the council, as union institutions, should be democratically accountable to the citizens of the union, since they receive funds from the general budget of the european union. in accordance with article 335 tfeu [...], in matters relating to the functioning of the institutions, each institution represents the union by virtue of its administrative autonomy, which means that, subject to article 55 of regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012 (the financial regulation), each institution is individually responsible for the implementation of its budget. the european council and the council have not submitted their annual activity reports to parliament, which is unacceptable and damaging to the reputation of the eu institutions. the fact that the council has not forwarded the requested documents to parliament undermines in particular the right of citizens of the union to information and transparency and is a cause for concern, as it indicates a certain democratic deficit in the union institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the second report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section ii – european council and council. all union institutions ought to be transparent and fully accountable to the citizens of the union for the funds entrusted to them. the european council and the council, as union institutions, should be democratically accountable to the citizens of the union as far as they are beneficiaries of the general budget of the union. the report underlines that an effective budgetary control exercise requires the cooperation of parliament and the council. i voted in favour because i believe that the european council’s and the council’s lack of cooperation with the discharge authority sends a negative signal to the citizens of the union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's decision of 27 october 2016 on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section ii european council and council. i agree that the secretary-general of the council is not to be given a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2014. the non-cooperation of parliament prevents it from taking an informed decision on the granting of discharge. the effective exercise of budgetary control requires the cooperation of parliament and the council in order to preserve transparency and democratic accountability to union taxpayers. it was found that only three out of the 27 questions submitted to the council by the members of the committee on budgetary control concerning the financial year 2014 received a clear answer in the documents submitted by the council in the discharge procedure.
in writing. ‒ i support the discharge to be given to the director in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, as the european parliament has found that the final accounts of the joint undertaking for the period from 1 january 2014 to 26 june 2014 fairly present, in all material respects, its financial position as at 26 june 2014 and its operating result and cash flows for the period then ended, in accordance with the provisions of its financial and accounting rules.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the second discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the eniac joint undertaking, which was established in 2007 to define and implement a research programme to develop key competences for nanoelectronics in different fields of application, operated between 1 january 2014 and 26 june 2014 in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules and accounting rules adopted by the commission's accounting officer. however, it is worrisome that for the same period, the court of auditors has issued a qualified opinion on the legality and regularity of the related transactions for the fourth year in a row.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft discharge decision on the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the final accounts of the joint undertaking for the period from 1 january 2014 to 26 june 2014 shall, in all material respects, fairly present the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 26 june 2014 and its operating result and cash flows for the period then ended, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules and accounting rules adopted by the commission's accounting officer. for the fourth consecutive year, the court of auditors has issued a qualified opinion on the legality and regularity of the related transactions in the joint undertaking's final accounts for the period from 1 january to 26 june 2014, as the administrative agreements signed with the national funding bodies regarding the audits of project cost claims do not include practical solutions for ex post audits. notes from the court's report that the final budget of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 included commitment appropriations of eur 2 356 000 and payment appropriations of eur 76 500 250, parliament gives discharge to the director of the ecsel joint undertaking (formerly the eniac joint undertaking and the artemis joint undertaking) in respect of the implementation of the eniac joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014. parliament approves the final accounts of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the second report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the report acknowledges the fact that the joint undertaking’s accounts for the period 1 january 2014 to 26 june 2014 present fairly, in all material respects, its financial position on 26 june 2014 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the period then ended, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the commission’s accounting officer. i voted in favour because i believe that the implementation of the national procedures provide a reasonable assurance on the legality and regularity of these transactions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament decision of 27 october 2016 on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, by which it granted the director of the ecsel joint undertaking (formerly the eniac joint undertaking and the artemis joint undertaking) discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the final accounts of the eniac joint undertaking for the period from 1 january 2014 to 26 june 2014 present fairly, in all material respects, its financial position as at 26 june 2014 and its operating result and cash flows for the period then ended, in accordance with the provisions of its financial and accounting rules adopted by the commission's accounting officer.
in writing. ‒ as in the previous vote, i supported the discharge to be given to the director in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, as the european parliament found that the final accounts of the joint undertaking for the period from 1 january 2014 to 26 june 2014 fairly represented, in all material respects, its financial position as at 26 june 2014 and its operating result and cash flows for the period then ended, in accordance with the provisions of its financial and accounting rules.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the second discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the artemis joint undertaking, which was established to establish and implement a research programme to develop key technologies for embedded computing systems in different fields of application, operated between 1 january 2014 and 26 june 2014 in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules and accounting rules adopted by the commission's accounting officer. however, no assessment of the quality of the audit reports of the national funding bodies related to the costs of the completed projects has been carried out by the joint undertaking on the basis of the court of auditors' report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft discharge decision on the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the artemis joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to establish and implement a research programme to develop key technologies for embedded computing systems in a variety of application areas, in order to improve european competitiveness and sustainability and to enable the emergence of new markets and societal applications. the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the period from 1 january 2014 to 26 june 2014 shall, in all material respects, fairly present the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 26 june 2014 and its operating result and cash flows for the period then ended, in accordance with the provisions of its financial and accounting rules adopted by the commission's accounting officer. the court of auditors, in its report on the joint undertaking's final accounts for the financial year 2014, delivered a qualified opinion on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, as the administrative agreements signed with the national funding bodies regarding the audits of project cost claims do not include practical solutions for ex post audits. parliament granted the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. parliament approves the final accounts of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the second report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the artemis joint undertaking (‘the joint undertaking’) was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to establish and implement a research agenda for the development of key technologies for embedded computing systems across different application areas in order to strengthen union competitiveness and sustainability and to allow for the emergence of new markets and societal applications. the maximum contribution for the period of 10 years from the union to the joint undertaking is eur 420 000 000, to be paid from the budget of the seventh research framework programme. i voted in favour because i believe that the joint undertaking’s accounts for the period 1 january 2014 to 26 june 2014 present fairly, in all material respects, its financial position on 26 june 2014 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the period then ended, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the commission’s accounting officer.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament decision of 27 october 2016 on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. i supported the discharge to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking (formerly the eniac and artemis joint undertakings) in respect of the implementation of the artemis joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014. it is noted that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the period from 1 january 2014 to 26 june 2014 present fairly, in all material respects, its financial position as at 26 june 2014 and its operating result and cash flows for the period then ended, in accordance with the provisions of its financial and accounting rules adopted by the commission's accounting officer.
in writing. ‒ i support the discharge for the iter joint undertaking and the development of fusion energy. the financial situation was in accordance with the provisions of the financial rules and there were no irregularities. the new director-general of iter also responded to the challenges now facing the project and presented an action plan including specific measures to address the main obstacles affecting the project's development. it is noted that the interim targets set by the iter council at its meeting on 18 and 19 november 2015 are very advanced and that four of the six targets set for the 2016 merger have already been achieved.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the second discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the iter joint undertaking and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors has found that the iter joint undertaking has complied with the provisions of its financial rules for the year 2014 and that the final accounts fairly present its financial position as at the last day of 2014 and its operating result and cash flows. i welcome the action plan, presented by the new director-general, which includes specific measures to address the main obstacles now affecting the development of the iter project.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft discharge decision on the implementation of the budget of the iter joint undertaking and the fusion energy development for the financial year 2014. the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy was established in march 2007 for a period of 35 years. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, has stated that the joint undertaking's accounts present fairly, in all material respects, its financial position as at 31 december 2014 and its operating result and cash flows for the year then ended, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules. the final budget for 2014 available for implementation included commitment appropriations of eur 1 168 800 000 and payment appropriations of eur 567 600 000. the new director-general of iter presented to the iter council an action plan, in response to the challenges now facing the iter project, which includes specific measures to address the main obstacles now affecting the development of the iter project. parliament gives a discharge to the director of the iter and fusion energy joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014. parliament approves the final accounts of the iter and fusion energy joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the second report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014. the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy was set up in march 2007 for a period of 35 years. the report stresses that the court of auditors stated that the joint undertaking’s annual accounts present fairly, in all material respects, its financial position as at 31 december 2014 and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the year then ended, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules. due to the challenges currently faced by the iter project, the new director general of the iter organization presented to the iter council an action plan including specific measures to address the main constraints that are currently affecting the development of the iter project. i voted in favour because i believe that the milestones set up at the iter council meeting of 18 and 19 november 2015 are well advanced.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament decision of 27 october 2016 on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014. i supported the discharge to be given to the director of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the joint undertaking's final accounts for the financial year 2014 ('the court of auditors' report') that it fairly represents, in all material respects, its financial position as at 31 december 2014 and its operating results and cash flows for the year then ended, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules.
in writing. ‒ in this case, i support the european parliament resolution on the situation in northern iraq/mosul, as i support the operation launched by iraq to liberate mosul from the control of isis, which is committing grave human rights violations and causing civilian casualties. i also recognize the independence, territorial integrity and sovereignty of iraq and its right to take the measures necessary to preserve them. i believe that the iraqi authorities must take concrete measures to protect civilians during the offensive, including effective command and control of militias and prevention of human rights violations. it is important to me to stress that, even after the liberation of mosul, the fight against the further spread of islamist-jihadi ideologies in this region and elsewhere must continue.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in northern iraq/mosul. the people of mosul, iraq's second largest city, are suffering under the brutal rule of isis, starving and desperate for liberation. i support the resolution which strongly supports the operation to liberate monsul, which will play a crucial role in the current global effort to permanently defeat isis. in doing so, the resolution does not deprive iraq of the right to take the measures necessary to preserve its independence, territorial integrity and sovereignty. the priority of the iraqi government should be to implement the right of return of the displaced indigenous population displaced in iraq.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the situation in northern iraq/mosul. the iraqi army, supported by the global coalition to fight isis/daesh, kurdish regional government (krg) infantry and forces of the paramilitary organisation popular mobilization, has launched an operation to liberate mosul, iraq's second largest city, and numerous towns and villages in the mosul corridor from isis/daesh control. isis/daesh has imposed a brutal regime in mosul, and residents who recently managed to flee the city report that people in the city are starving and desperate for liberation. according to the office of the united nations high commissioner for refugees (unhcr), since 2014, some 3.3 million iraqis have been forced to flee their homes because of the war. in mosul, more than 1.5 million people are at risk of imminent displacement as a direct result of the operation to retake the area. parliament supported the operation launched by iraq to liberate mosul from isis/daesh control and considered that this operation played a decisive role in the current global effort to defeat isis/daesh once and for all. following the liberation of mosul, it will be necessary to continue to combat the further spread of islamist-jihadist ideologies in the region and elsewhere, including salafist jihadism, through which isis/da'esh is theologically and politically driven to commit atrocities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motions for a resolution on the situation in northern iraq/mosul. the resolution calls on iraqi authorities to make every effort to protect civilians, hospitals and schools, as they progress towards mosul. it underlines that daesh atrocities and genocide against christians, yazidis and other minorities should be referred to international criminal court. the eu has provided eur 134 million to date in humanitarian aid in iraq, including eur 50 million for mosul where 1.5 million people are at imminent risk of displacement. the resolution urges all parties to the conflict to open humanitarian aid corridors and guarantee assistance, and also suggests setting up a un third-party monitoring mechanism. i voted in favour because i believe that it is of crucial importance to urge iraqi authorities to protect civilians and prevent civilian casualties and human rights violations during the ongoing operation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution of 27 october 2016 on the situation in northern iraq/mosul. on 4 february 2016, the european parliament found that isis/daesh is engaged in genocide against christians and yazidis and other religious and ethnic minorities. the atrocities committed by isis/da'esh against religious and ethnic minorities in iraq include war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide. i therefore join in supporting the operation launched by iraq to liberate mosul from isis/daesh control, as this operation could play a decisive role in the current global effort to defeat isis/daesh once and for all. i believe it is essential that all parties to the conflict, in times of hostility and afterwards, respect international humanitarian law and, in times of conflict, the principles of proportionality, discrimination and precaution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution because i am absolutely in favour of freedom of the media and i condemn the unjustified imprisonment of journalists in turkey. freedom of expression and freedom of the media are central to the functioning of a democratic and open society and it is therefore right, in my view, to call on the turkish government to limit the scope of the emergency measures and not to use them to restrict freedom of expression. investigations into alleged involvement in the coup attempt should be conducted impartially and on the basis of conclusive evidence, not on the basis of collective guilt, which may lead to collective punishment including of journalists.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the situation of journalists in turkey. more than 250 people were killed and more than 2,100 were injured in the coup attempt. despite turkey being a key partner of the european union in the migration crisis, we must continue to demand and insist on respect for human rights and the rule of law. during the coup attempt, the turkish police arrested at least 99 other journalists and writers, who have not yet been charged, which is a cause for concern. the resolution rightly stresses that the turkish government must not, under the pretext of a failed military coup, further repress legitimate and peaceful opposition or prevent journalists and media from peacefully exercising their right to freedom of expression by disproportionate and unlawful acts and measures.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the situation of journalists in turkey. the situation of press freedom in turkey has deteriorated significantly over the past decade. turkey is ranked 151 out of 180 countries in the 2016 press freedom index published by reporters without borders, up from 98th in 2005. freedom of expression and freedom of the press are essential and fundamental components of any democracy, and turkey is still a candidate country for eu membership. according to reporters without borders, 89 journalists were arrested, 104 media houses were closed, more than 2,300 journalists lost their jobs and at least 330 journalists had their press cards revoked during the first six weeks of the state of emergency. the violations of media freedom in turkey have also affected citizens of european countries, such as german satirist jan böhmermann and dutch journalist ebru umar. parliament called on the turkish government to respect all the conditions of democracy and the rule of law and to end discrimination against citizens in relation to freedom of speech and other fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motions for a resolution on the situation of journalists in turkey. the resolution urges the turkish authorities to release those journalists and media workers being held without compelling evidence of criminal activity following the coup attempt of 15 july 2016. at least 99 journalists and writers have been arrested, denied the right of access to a lawyer and kept in inhumane conditions in which they are threatened and mistreated. the offices of more than 100 broadcasters, newspapers, magazines, publishers and distribution companies have been closed. the resolution strongly condemns the attempted coup of 15 july 2016 and supports the legitimate institutions of turkey and their right to respond to the failed military take-over, but stress that this event cannot be used as an excuse to further stifle legitimate and peaceful opposition and to prevent journalists from exercising their freedom of expression. i voted in favour because i believe that a free and pluralistic press is an essential component of any democracy’ and open society.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution of 27 october 2016 on the situation of journalists in turkey. according to the european union of journalists and the turkish journalists association, the turkish police arrested at least 99 journalists and writers after the coup attempt on 15 july 2016, and no charges have been brought against them to date. the imprisoned journalists are also denied access to a lawyer and are held in inhumane conditions and subjected to threats and ill-treatment. i therefore join the call that the turkish government, under the pretext of the failed military coup, must not further repress the legitimate and peaceful opposition or journalists and media by disproportionate and illegal acts and measures to prevent them from peacefully exercising their right to freedom of expression.
in writing. ‒ i support the resolution on nuclear security and non-proliferation. i agree with the fact that the global security environment and in particular the eu security environment has deteriorated significantly and become less predictable. nor has the deterioration of relations between nuclear-armed nations contributed to this. as a matter of priority, i agree to prevent terrorist organizations or states from gaining access to or using nuclear weapons. it is important that we continue to pursue the goal of reducing and eliminating all nuclear arsenals and to move towards a world without nuclear weapons. i welcome the fact that nuclear-weapon-free zones have already been established in some regions of the world, namely in latin america and the caribbean, the south pacific, south-east asia, africa and central asia. i am concerned that nuclear-armed nations that are signatories to the nuclear non-proliferation treaty are updating and strengthening their nuclear arsenals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on nuclear security and non-proliferation. recently, we have witnessed a variety of events that have affected the deterioration of relations between the nuclear-armed states. the deterioration of the security situation in the european union and in the wider neighbourhood may be of concern in the light of the re-emergence of nuclear weapons as a means of active deterrence and their possible proliferation among state and non-state actors. i support the call for all nuclear-weapon states to take concrete interim measures to reduce the risk of nuclear weapon detonations, including by limiting its operational status and by stopping nuclear weapons already in place.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on nuclear security and non-proliferation. the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons is a landmark international treaty aimed at preventing the proliferation of nuclear weapons and weapons technology, promoting cooperation in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy and enhancing global nuclear disarmament. this treaty is the only binding commitment of the nuclear-weapon states in a multilateral treaty to the goal of disarmament. the convention on the physical protection of nuclear material is a legally binding international instrument in the field of physical protection of nuclear material, which provides for measures relating to the prevention, detection and punishment of offences relating to nuclear material. the amendment of the convention makes it legally binding on states parties to protect nuclear capacity and material during peaceful domestic use, storage and transport. parliament expressed concern at the recent nuclear tests carried out by the dprk and the risks they pose to regional stability and demanded that the dprk cease such tests in the future. parliament encouraged the continued application and strict implementation of the convention on the physical protection of nuclear material and called on those states which had not yet ratified the treaties to do so.
in writing. ‒ i abstained of voting on motions for a resolution on nuclear security and non-proliferation. the resolution notes that worsening relations between nuclear-armed states, such as russia and the us or india and pakistan, but also russia’s threats to use nuclear weapons or to deploy them to more territories in europe, are making the eu’s security environment ever more tense. moreover, it stresses the concern about nuclear threats arising from the russian attitude, its statements indicating an increased readiness to use nuclear weapons. it cites the examples of russian military exercises simulating the use of these weapons against poland, high-ranking russian officials’ claims that russia has the right to deploy nuclear weapons in crimea and the deployment of the nuclear-capable iskander missile system to the kaliningrad region, neighbouring lithuania and poland. i abstained because i believe that this resolution is very one-sided and not balanced.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution of 27 october 2016 on nuclear security and non-proliferation. the global security environment, and in particular the security environment of the eu, has deteriorated significantly and become more unstable and uncertain and less predictable. security threats are created by both state and non-state actors, regional and global. the deterioration of the security situation in the european union and in the wider neighbourhood is a cause for concern, which could lead to the re-emergence of nuclear weapons as a means of active deterrence and their possible proliferation among state and non-state actors. i therefore join the call for the european external action service to update and extend the 2003 eu strategy against proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the new 2009 guidelines for action as an accompanying measure, thereby making the eu a driving force in strengthening and continuing multilateral nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation agreements.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on european voluntary service. through practice in the home country, we can see that volunteering plays an important role in expressing solidarity, freedom and responsibility, and helps to strengthen active citizenship and personal development. it is an important tool for social inclusion, training, education and intercultural dialogue. if we succeed in transferring these values to the european area, we will be able to create a european identity more easily and more effectively, and thus contribute to the spread of european values. in doing so, it is important to provide a european framework for voluntary activities that defines rights and responsibilities and promotes mobility and recognition of skills and competences. it is therefore a good proposal to support and implement the idea of co-financing voluntary work with eu grants, as recently proposed by the commission in its proposal for a new financial regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on european voluntary service and the promotion of volunteering in europe. according to statistics, almost 100 million citizens in europe are engaged in voluntary activities, and their work generates about 5% of its gdp. this makes it all the more important to provide a european framework for volunteering activities in the sense of a legal framework defining the status of volunteers, their rights and responsibilities, and promoting mobility and the recognition of skills and competences. in this light, the resolution rightly encourages member states to define the legal environment for volunteers and to apply the recommendations of the agenda for a voluntary policy in europe and the european charter on the rights and responsibilities of volunteers.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on european voluntary service and the promotion of volunteering in europe. in 2016, the european voluntary service celebrates its 20th anniversary and has supported 100,000 volunteers in its 20 years of existence. volunteering has value and significance as one of the most visible expressions of solidarity, which promotes and facilitates social inclusion, creates social capital and enables the transformation of society, and contributes to the development of an active civil society able to offer creative and innovative solutions to common challenges, and to economic growth, which should therefore be judged by specific criteria, in terms of economic and social capital. volunteering requires a combination of support mechanisms and/or appropriate organisational structures, which should be further strengthened by an appropriate legal framework defining the rights and obligations of volunteers and volunteering. parliament encourages the member states to promote the european voluntary service in their education and university systems as a tool for educating the younger generation in solidarity and civic engagement. the european voluntary service should provide quick and easy access to this programme and it is therefore necessary to simplify the current application system.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motions for a resolution on the european voluntary service. almost 100 million eu citizens have taken part as volunteers in education, culture or arts, sport events, humanitarian and development aid work. young people should take advantage of volunteering schemes to develop skills and acquire experience that helps them to find jobs afterwards. the report stresses out that despite the real social and economic benefits of volunteering for individuals and organisations, participation in the european volunteering service remains modest and many barriers still have to be removed. to encourage volunteering, a more supportive environment is essential, including a legal framework with clear rights and responsibilities for programme managers and volunteers, as well as fair funding. i voted in favour because i believe that the eu needs a better coordinated policy on volunteering, to give volunteers a proper legal status and help them join programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on european voluntary service and the promotion of volunteering in europe. the european voluntary service is a great service with clear frameworks. for example, the organisations that operate in it sign the quality charter. the participating volunteers, aged between 17 and 30, shall be dedicated exclusively to volunteering activities for a period of between two weeks and one year. it is known that the esf covers travel and subsistence expenses, insurance and allowances for participants. volunteering is an expression of solidarity and responsibility, as it contributes to greater involvement of citizens, personal development and, in our case, strengthening european values. it is an important tool for informal learning and training.
in writing. ‒ i support the evaluation report on the eu youth strategy 20132015. it is important to me that the report calls again for closer cooperation and exchange of best practice on youth issues, which significantly improves the use of good practices. i agree with the statement that the integration of young people with disabilities into the labour market is essential to ensure their independent life and full integration into society. i see the strategy as important in view of the worryingly high level of youth unemployment and social exclusion in the eu. it is also important that the next cycle of the eu youth strategy includes young refugees and asylum seekers in its objectives. their access to education, training and employment and social inclusion is essential to help them build their identity as eu citizens and to prevent them from being let down. i believe that it is right to call on member states to make the best use of available eu and national policies and financial frameworks to promote appropriate investment in young people and the creation of quality and secure jobs. i think the erasmus+ programme is good, especially as regards apprenticeships, which thus encourage young people to continue to gain experience across borders. i am in favour of strengthening partnerships between youth organisations and public authorities, as they can increase the opportunities for young people and their organisations to participate in policy-making.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the evaluation report on the eu youth strategy 20132015. in europe, we need a dialogue between active young citizens and decision-makers at the highest level. we need to encourage young people to be active, to get involved in youth organisations and thus to help shape their future. i support the resolution which points out that the open method of coordination is not enough to shape youth policies, but that we need other complementary measures, which will be achieved through closer cooperation and the exchange of best practice on youth-related issues at all levels of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the evaluation of the eu youth strategy 2013-2015. the human and social capital represented by young people is one of europe's most important resources and a guarantee for its future. the european union and its member states must therefore not allow the potential of the knowledge, creativity and skills of europe's 90 million young people to be squandered. youth policy is a competence of the member states, and the european union's role is to coordinate, guide and support. in total, 13.7 million young people in europe are not in employment, education or training. and almost 27 million young people are threatened by poverty and social exclusion. the poverty rate among young people is higher than in the general population. and because they work involuntarily for shorter hours and in many cases have contracts extended for a fixed period, this generation is threatened by a long-term poor quality of life. member states and the commission also cooperated between 2013 and 2015 to promote youth employment, labour market integration, social inclusion and active civic participation. the results show that progress has been made in a number of areas, but that other solutions need to be found to reduce youth unemployment, improve their quality of life and future prospects, ensure equal opportunities, strengthen youth citizenship, increase their participation in society and prevent violent radicalisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the assessment of the eu youth strategy 2013-2015. the report stresses that effective implementation of the eu youth strategy should be closely linked to achieving the europe 2020 headline targets, particularly those of having 75% of the population aged 20 to 64 in employment and lifting as many young people as possible out of poverty and social exclusion. it equally underlines that inclusion of youth with disability in employment is necessary so they can lead an independent life and be fully integrated in society as active participants and real contributors. i voted in favour because i believe that young people should be helped and empowered to address the extremely serious problems they currently face and to tackle the challenges they will face in the future through more relevant, effective and better coordinated youth policies and targeted use of economic, employment and social policies resources at local, regional, national and eu level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the evaluation of the eu youth strategy 20132015. i agree with the conclusions of the report that the integration of youth policy, cross-sectoral cooperation and social action within the eu, as well as the synergies between the european youth strategy and other european strategies such as those in the fields of education, training, health and employment, need to be strengthened to ensure that current and future policies successfully address the situation and needs of young people facing severe economic, employment and social problems, and that in this regard it is crucial that youth organisations are involved in policy-making.
in writing. ‒ in agriculture and rural development, trends are similar across europe, including in slovenia, where i come from: the number of farms is decreasing and young people are finding it increasingly difficult to get excited about farming. the measure for young farmers is, in my view, one of the best in quality and also one of the most effective, because europe's rural areas need young people, new knowledge and new approaches. the old, traditional way will be very difficult to resist modern trends. digitalisation in agriculture is what we need to put together with rural mobility in the context of agricultural and regional policy and thus improve rural employment. unfortunately, the proposed report did not mention this very much. i abstained in the final vote on the report because i felt that it did not adequately address some of the current issues in european agriculture and was also very critical of international trade, which can empower many european producers.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report: how the common agricultural policy can increase job creation in rural areas. rural areas account for over 77% of the european union's territory, and agriculture and the agri-food industry together account for 6% of eu gdp. unfortunately, we have missed the opportunity to have a good report, because this report is focused mainly on the political debate and it is going in the wrong direction. we all support the creation of additional jobs, but we cannot support the unbiased opposition to trade agreements, which will primarily stimulate the european economy and create new jobs. the agreement with canada is an example of how we will safeguard our agricultural excellence.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the motion for a resolution on how the common agricultural policy can increase job creation in rural areas, as i think the report highlights good things, but some votes, with which i cannot agree, made it impossible for me to support the report. the rural areas represent over 77% of the eu's territory, which also means that there are many jobs, often non-transferable, related to agriculture and the food processing industry. agriculture and the agri-food industry together account for 6% of the european union's gdp, 15 million businesses and 46 million jobs. labour input in agriculture in the eu-28 fell by almost a quarter (23.6%) between 2005 and 2014. to preserve farm jobs, the sector will need to start using new risk management tools and to make greater use of tools such as producer organisations under the single common market organisation (cmo) and the second pillar in order to better respond to the volatility and demands of the global market. in the future, it will be necessary to promote further vocational training of farmers and agricultural workers and to ensure the dissemination of scientific knowledge and innovation in order to ensure adaptability to a changing environment and facilitate the pursuit of economic activities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on how the cap can improve job creation in rural areas. although agriculture remains the main form of land use in europe, it nowadays employs only a fraction of the working population of rural areas; whereas the diversification of land use in rural areas, combining a productive economic function with the functions of accommodating residential and recreational use and of nature protection and conservation, is a considerable challenge in terms of development and employment in the various rural regions of the union. the report calls on all the member states to give young farmers long-term prospects in order to address rural depopulation, to implement a comprehensive generational renewal strategy and, in order to do this, to make full use of all the possibilities provided under the new cap to support young farmers and new entrants to farming, including from outside the family. i voted in favour because i believe that there is a need for additional support for agriculture and for the creation of agricultural jobs in less favoured areas and in areas on the eu’s external borders.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the motion for a resolution on how the common agricultural policy can increase job creation in rural areas. agriculture and the agri-food industry together account for 6% of the european union's gdp, 15 million businesses and 46 million jobs. the findings show that the number of farmers in rural areas has declined dramatically in many european countries over the past few decades, and the income of farmers and other agricultural workers is also declining, as is the number of jobs in agriculture. i believe that further vocational training of farmers and agricultural workers will have to be encouraged and the dissemination of scientific knowledge and innovation ensured, in order to ensure adaptability to a changing environment and to facilitate the pursuit of economic activities. as the report does not provide a concrete and effective response to the current challenges in the agricultural sector, i did not support it.
first of all, of course, i would like to thank all my colleagues who have made it possible for us to have before us today a report which really focuses on the workings of the central bank itself and not on the financial policy of the union, as we have seen in the past. the main theme of the euro area in 2015 was economic recovery, although unfortunately this is still not equally present in all countries. some have done better, some have done worse. in addition, as has been repeatedly stressed, we are suffering from low inflation and very low interest rates. this, of course, is a very big concern. we all stress that. this policy has produced results, but not necessarily in the future. unless these measures are combined with some other measures, we cannot hope for success. i am pleased that we are dealing with this report relatively quickly, already in this calendar year. and what we must emphasize, and we all emphasize, is that in addition to these monetary measures, we also need structural measures. economic growth, helped by the actions of the central bank, may have been a little too lulling, and some countries are not now investing enough effort to make much-needed structural reforms, especially in the area of pensions, in the face of this still small economic growth. the demographics won't get better tomorrow, but they'll get worse. our pension funds are also at risk because of the very policy of the european central bank. but i would also like to point out something else: the european central bank, through its actions, within its competence, can of course also influence the credibility of all the micro-systems we have in europe. we haven't done our homework everywhere, and in many countries, including my country, slovenia, we're still dealing with the consequences of the bailout of the banking system, which was caused by either deliberate fraudulent acts or non-corporate... non-corporate activity. so i'm pleased that mr draghi also spoke about the draft guidelines on bad loans. i hope we can take this a step further. and of course, my colleagues in slovenia are working very hard to find those responsible for the bank holes, and i hope that they will have more or at least good support from the european central bank.
i thank the rapporteur for the report and also my colleagues who in their speeches acknowledged in their work that the central bank had done a difficult job in the recent period, that in many areas, in saving the euro, the economic situation in the countries had stabilized to some extent and there were some signs of recovery within europe. but there are certainly going to be a lot of challenges to find answers to the low interest rate problem, because i share the view of those who say that low interest rates, as they are today, are very dangerous for the savings mindset, but especially dangerous for the pension systems, because we can put them at risk. the next challenge will certainly be to find a different solution between the more developed european north and south, with some of the responsibility certainly falling to the european institutions. but i am convinced that what the european commission is pointing out, and the european central bank is pointing out, namely reform changes, changes in education, changes in various other subsystems, is the key to this path. i wish you a happy hand and much success on this journey.
in writing. for those of us who use shipping services mainly for leisure purposes, and even more so for those who depend on them on a daily basis, the availability and good connectivity of shipping services with other transport links is important. the appropriate involvement of maritime passenger transport in projects promoting transport multimodalism, such as the integrated european ticketing system or the trans-european transport networks and the connecting europe facility, is important. i welcome the report which points to a number of changes needed in passenger shipping to increase its use with many positive consequences such as less congestion on the roads.
the question of whether the existing rules of the stability and growth pact are being effectively applied and whether the link between structural reforms, investment and fiscal responsibility has been strengthened is of great importance when considering the adoption of the decision on the european semester package, including the annual growth survey for 2017. the pace of economic growth in the euro area is still too low to talk about the much-needed increase in job creation, especially for young people. it will be necessary to promote more effectively the implementation of structural reforms, to stimulate investment, in particular under the new european fund for strategic investments, and to take better account of the economic cycle in individual member states. in addition to slovenia, belgium, italy, cyprus, lithuania and finland are among the countries in the group where there is a risk of non-compliance of the 2017 budgetary plan with the rules. the commission is also identifying risks of non-compliance in spain and portugal. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the debt. such a high level of public debt cannot contribute to creating new jobs and boosting the economy.
we've recently taken a number of measures to close off the door to tax evasion. we have said no to those who seek to use the system to their own advantage at the expense of others. i hope we don't stop along the way and that we don't need another scandal to remind us that we have to keep going. we've finally started to realize that it's very important who really owns the company. hiding behind complicated connections, behind shell companies and various proxies is a fog that we can dispel with regulations. finally, it also became clear that tax authorities must cooperate with each other, that they must be connected if we are to catch tax cheaters. this exchange must be self-evident and automatic. and finally, we finally came to the realization that we need healthy tax competition. we do not need excessive taxes that stifle businesses, nor do we need individual agreements that give special advantages to selected companies. of course, the consolidated tax base is one of the instruments that could contribute to this. and last but not least, why are we doing all this? we are doing this so that we can have more money and more resources, which will mean a more social europe.
it is essential to adopt amendments to the directive on the access of tax authorities to information on the prevention of money laundering, as the rapid, transparent and automatic exchange of financial account data for tax purposes is essential in the effective fight against tax evasion. the scandals surrounding the concealment of offshore assets go hand in hand with tax evasion, as well as money laundering, corruption, terrorist financing and other criminal activities. access to data by tax administrations varies widely across the european union, and i welcome the establishment of a central register that will be accessible to tax administrations in all member states. the financial institutions will now be able to identify beneficial owners in cases where the account holder is an intermediary structure. i propose that the commission prepare a report covering a six-month period in 2017 on the effects of this directive in the member states, given that member states are required to publish the laws, regulations and administrative provisions required by this directive by 31 december 2017 at the latest.
in writing. ‒ i supported the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between ukraine and the european police office (europol) because there is a clear need for operational cooperation between europol and ukraine. ukraine has become an important partner of the european union in the eastern partnership, and security and the fight against crime are essential conditions for the full realisation of the objectives of this partnership. according to existing europol data, ukraine is increasingly important in the fight against organised crime, in particular drug and economic crime, trafficking in human beings and smuggling, and mobile organised crime groups. the exchange of information will enable the eu, the member states and ukraine to prevent and combat organised crime, terrorism and other forms of transnational crime more effectively.
in writing. ‒ europol assists member states in the fight against organised crime within the eu. unfortunately, the dimensions of organised crime do not end at the eu's borders, and cooperation with third countries and international organisations is essential to make it work more effectively. the greens/efa group supports crossborder cooperation between countries in the fight against crime. the agreement focuses on ukraine, a country close to the eu's borders and also a potential candidate for eu membership. therefore, deeper cooperation with ukraine in order to prevent all forms of crime and terrorism is important and necessary. i believe that this can have a positive impact on the situation and the situation in the country and, in addition, can contribute to a better integration of ukraine into the eu. it is also positive that strategic agreements include the exchange of information but exclude personal data. in addition, activities by europol may only be carried out after approval by the european council, after prior consultation with europol representatives. from a broader geopolitical perspective, enhanced eu-ukraine cooperation would deepen the political dialogue between the two sides and, consequently, have a positive impact on further integration in the field of human rights, the rule of law and fundamental human rights. that is why i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by europol of the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between ukraine and the european police office (europol). i support the conclusion of an agreement between europol and ukraine to strengthen operational and strategic cooperation in the field of information exchange. this ranges from expertise and general status reports to crime prevention methods and participation in training activities and advice and support in individual criminal investigations.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion of the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between ukraine and the european police office. in accordance with article 23 (2) of the council decision on europol (decision 2009/371/jha), international cooperation agreements with third countries or international organisations may only be concluded after their approval by the council, after consulting the european parliament. the proposal submitted concerns the proposed approval of an operational and strategic agreement between europol and ukraine providing for the exchange of information, including personal data. according to europol, ukraine is increasingly important in the fight against organised crime, in particular that linked to drugs and the economy, trafficking in human beings and smuggling, and mobile organised crime groups. the exchange of information will enable the eu, the member states and ukraine to prevent organised crime, terrorism and other forms of transnational crime more effectively.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by the european police office (europol) of the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between ukraine and europol. the report states that there is clear operational needs for europol to deepen its operational cooperation with ukraine. beyond the exchange of information, the agreement also opens opportunities such as training and crime prevention activities. i abstained from voting because i believe that the report contains too many elements that relate to third countries in the immediate neighbourhood.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by europol of the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between ukraine and the european police office (europol). according to europol, ukraine is increasingly important in the fight against organised crime, in particular drug and economic crime, human trafficking and smuggling, and mobile organised crime groups. i therefore support the conclusion of this agreement on strategic and operational cooperation with ukraine, as i believe it will help to combat organised crime and contribute to strengthening international cooperation in the field of trafficking in human beings and other serious crimes.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the request for the waiver of the immunity of jean-françois jalkh, given the request made by the french minister of justice and civil liberties in connection with the judicial inquiry ordered by the district court of nanterre following a request by the maison des potes maison de l'égalité for the consolidation of judicial proceedings relating to public incitement to racial or religious discrimination. i personally believe that such public incitement to racial or religious discrimination is extremely inappropriate and unworthy of a man in his position.
in writing. ‒ the public prosecutor at the court of appeal in versailles is seeking the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of jean-françois jalkh, member of the european parliament, in connection with the proceedings for an alleged offence. the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr jean-françois jalkh relates to the alleged criminal offence of publicly inciting discrimination on grounds of nationality, race or religion, whether in writing or by means of images or public electronic correspondence. the complaint refers to statements in a leaflet entitled 'manual for national front local councillors', issued on 19 september 2013 and published on 30 november 2013 on the official website of the national front federation, which encouraged the candidates of that party elected to local councillors in the elections of 23 and 30 march 2014 to recommend the prioritization of french citizens (i.e. priorité nationale) in the allocation of social housing at the first meeting of the new local council. jean-françois jalkh was the head of publications at the front national and had editorial control over all the websites of the federation. i find this behaviour unacceptable as a member of the european parliament and i myself strongly condemn the promotion of hate speech or discrimination on grounds of religion, gender or race. i believe that the french authorities should be given the opportunity to prosecute persons for such behaviour and i therefore voted to waive the immunity of jean-françois jalkh, mep.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a european parliament decision requesting the waiver of the immunity of mr jean-françois jalkh. the public prosecutor of the court of appeal of versailles is seeking the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr jean-françois jalkh, member of the european parliament, in connection with the proceedings for an alleged offence. no mep has been consulted during this period, so this activity is of a regional-local nature.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the request for waiver of the immunity of jean-françois jalkh. the waiver of the immunity of jean-françois jalkh was forwarded on 14 april 2016 by the french minister of justice and liberties in connection with a judicial inquiry opened against mr jalkh that relates to an alleged offence of public incitement to discrimination on grounds of nationality, race or religion by word of mouth, in written form or by means of images or electronic public communication by a person or persons unknown. i voted in favour because mr jalkh was not a member of the european parliament when the alleged offence took place and the charges are manifestly unrelated to the position of jean-françois jalkh as a member of the european parliament. moreover, the alleged actions do not relate to opinions expressed or votes cast by the member of the european parliament in the performance of his duties and there is no suspicion of any attempt to obstruct the parliamentary work of jean-françois jalkh behind the judicial inquiry.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the request for waiver of immunity of jean-françois jalkh, as the allegations clearly have no connection with jean-françois jalkh's position as a member of the european parliament and in fact relate to activities of a purely national or regional nature. there is also no doubt that the judicial inquiry opened in response to the application would have been an attempt to obstruct the parliamentary work of mr jalkha (fumus persecutionis), since the application was made before he became a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the request for the waiver of the immunity of jean-françois jalkh, given the request made by the french minister of justice and civil liberties in connection with the judicial inquiry ordered by the district court of nanterre following a request by the maison des potes maison de l'égalité for the consolidation of judicial proceedings relating to public incitement to racial or religious discrimination. i personally believe that such public incitement to racial or religious discrimination is extremely inappropriate and unworthy of a man in his position.
in writing. ‒ the public prosecutor of the paris court of appeal is seeking the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of jean-françois jalkh, member of the european parliament, in connection with the proceedings for an alleged offence. the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr jean-françois jalkh relates to the alleged criminal offence of publicly inciting discrimination, hatred or violence against a person or a group of persons on the grounds of their origin or membership or non-membership of a particular ethnic group, nationality, race or religion. the complaint refers to statements made by jean-marie le pen in an interview published on 6 june 2014 on the website frontnational.com and on the blog jeanmarielepen.com, where she said in response to a question from the audience about the singer patrick bruel, who said that he could no longer perform in cities where mayors from the front national were elected: it does not surprise me. listen, next time we'll put them all in the oven. during the period in question, jean-françois jalkh was the head of publications for the official website of the front national. since a member of the european parliament enjoys immunity in the territory of his country and therefore cannot be subject to judicial proceedings or to investigation, i consider it appropriate to waive his immunity. that is why i voted in favour of the report and therefore for the waiver of the immunity of jean-françois jalkh.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a european parliament decision requesting the waiver of the immunity of mr jean-françois jalkh. the public prosecutor of the court of appeal of versailles is seeking the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr jean-françois jalkh, member of the european parliament, in connection with the proceedings for an alleged offence. no mep has been consulted during this period, so this activity is of a regional-local nature.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the request for waiver of the immunity of jean-françois jalkh. the waiver of immunity of jean-françois jalkh relates to an alleged offence of incitement to discrimination, hatred or violence in respect of a person or group of persons on account of their origin or membership or non-membership of a particular ethnic group, nation, race or religion. jean-françois jalkh was accused by the association ‘national office for vigilance against anti-semitism (bnvca)’ in an application lodged with the senior examining magistrate in paris on 12 august 2014. i voted in favour because jean-françois jalkh had not assumed his duties as a member of the european parliament when the alleged offence took place and that these charges are manifestly unrelated to the position of jean-françois jalkh as a member of the european parliament. moreover, the alleged actions do not relate to opinions expressed or votes cast by the member of the european parliament in the performance of his duties and there is no suspicion of any attempt to obstruct the parliamentary work of jean-françois jalkh behind the judicial inquiry.
in writing. ‒ the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr jean-françois jalkh relates to an alleged criminal offence of publicly inciting discrimination, hatred or violence against a person or a group of persons on the grounds of their origin or membership or non-membership of a particular ethnic group, nationality, race or religion. since the charges are clearly not related to the position of mr jean-françois jalkh as a member of the european parliament and do not relate to any opinion or vote which that member might have expressed in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, i voted in favour of the report on the request for waiver of immunity of mr jean-françois jalkh.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation as it concerns an endangered species which is on the list mainly due to overfishing. it is important to be aware of the problems of overfishing of certain fish species and to protect them for our own fishing.
in writing. ‒ the vote in question is a recommendation for the second reading of the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 establishing a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. the purpose of that regulation is to amend and clarify certain articles of the regulation and thus to improve it. therefore, on 12 september 2012, the european commission published a proposal to revise the existing regulation. unfortunately, in adopting that regulation, the european council did not follow the co-decision procedure between the european parliament and the european council and adopted the regulation under its competence on the basis of article 43 (3) tfeu. neither the european parliament nor the european commission agreed with this. that is why the case was referred to the european court of justice. the latter annulled the council regulation in december 2015, which meant that the court ruled in favour of the european parliament and the european commission. this was a major victory for the european parliament, which will now be a co-legislator on the regulation. the european parliament and the european council reached agreement on the regulation at a trialogue in june this year, which mainly implements the principles of the new common fisheries policies while supporting the implementation of the regulation in the member states. on the basis of the above, i therefore voted in favour of adopting the recommendation in plenary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 establishing a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. i support the establishment of rules on total allowable catches and the limitation of the time fishermen can spend at sea. the commission proposal thus includes the inclusion of the total catch in the quota shares. according to the provisions of the council, which substantially amended the commission's text, a good compromise between the commission and the council was thus reached, which is in line with the new rules laid down in the new basic regulation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the eu parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 establishing a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. the purpose of this proposal is to bring the regulation establishing a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks ('the cod plan') into line with the new rules of the tfeu. the powers now conferred on the commission by that regulation have been reclassified into delegated and implementing measures. the main objective of the plan is to ensure the sustainable exploitation of cod stocks in the geographical area of the kattegat, the north sea, the west of scotland and the irish sea on the basis of the maximum sustainable yield.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 establishing a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. the goal of the updated regulation is to allow north sea cod fishermen to land every catch more easily. the regulation removes limits on the number of days a vessel can spend in a fishing area and thus removes all obstacles to complying with the landing obligation in full. i voted in favour because i believe that this update of the 2008 regulation establishing a long-term-plan for cod stocks will make it fully compatible with the new common fisheries policy (cfp).
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 establishing a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation no 1342/2008 (com (((2012) 0498) is presented with the aim of improving and clarifying the provisions of the regulation currently in force, thus giving more effective effect to the principles of the new common fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the report adopted and have supported it, as past media revelations have shown the flow of money into offshore tax havens and it has become clear that tax authorities need more powers and greater access to information on who the beneficial owners of these companies are. it is also important to give tax authorities the appropriate tools to properly access this data and to cooperate within the framework of european legislation.
in writing. ‒ disclosures in cases such as luxleaks and the panama papers show that the european union urgently needs better tax transparency to successfully tackle the challenges of money laundering, tax evasion and tax avoidance. directive 2011/16/eu provides tax authorities with access to information, procedures, documents and mechanisms for the performance of their anti-money laundering tasks. this ensures that information about financial account holders is communicated to the member states in which the account holder is resident. the commission proposal to amend this directive rightly notes, in essence, that without adequate access to information on the prevention of money laundering, tax authorities cannot assess whether financial institutions correctly identify and report beneficial owners. the parliament's report goes one step further and proposes that the rapid, permanent, mandatory and, above all, automatic exchange of information between member states is essential to prevent money laundering. in addition, the global nature of anti-money laundering activities makes cooperation between tax authorities essential, making the most of the integration at national, european and international levels. since the parliament's report confirms and in some respects strengthens the commission's proposal, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu as regards access to information by tax authorities for the prevention of money laundering. the rapid, transparent and automatic exchange of financial account data for tax purposes is essential for the effective fight against tax evasion. the scandals surrounding the concealment of offshore assets go hand in hand with tax evasion as well as money laundering, corruption, terrorist financing and other criminal activities. the access to data by tax administrations varies widely across the eu, and i welcome the establishment of a central register that will be accessible to tax administrations in all member states. the financial institutions will now be able to identify beneficial owners in cases where the account holder is an intermediary structure.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu as regards access to information by tax authorities for the prevention of money laundering. in order to combat tax evasion and avoid problems such as those highlighted by the panama papers, and taking into account the need to improve tax transparency, the commission proposed that tax authorities in the eu be given access to national information concerning money laundering. in order to combat this, the eu tax authorities decided to do so by means of directive 2011/16/eu. the directive provides for measures and established procedures to improve (cooperation) (such as exchange of information, control and mutual information). the improvements include the commission's efforts to speed up transparency, to give tax authorities greater access to business owner data and to enable the verification of people involved in certain financial takeovers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu as regards access to anti-money-laundering information by tax authorities. the new rules will enable and oblige tax authorities with anti-money laundering responsibilities in any eu country to share automatically information such as bank account balances, interest income and dividends, with their counterparts in other member states. i voted in favour because i believe that efforts made in transparency are the only way to fight against tax evasion. moreover, links between money laundering, the funding of terrorism, organised crime and tax evasion highlight the need for close cooperation and coordination among eu countries.
in writing. ‒ the revelations of swissleaks, luxleaks, the panama papers and the bahamas, which are just a few examples of a global phenomenon, have confirmed the urgent need for greater tax transparency and closer coordination and cooperation between judicial authorities. the new rules thus provide for the mandatory automatic exchange of information on bank account balances, interest and dividend income between the authorities responsible for preventing money laundering and tax evasion in the member states. the resolution also stresses that the links between money laundering, terrorist financing, organised crime and tax evasion call for close cooperation and coordination between eu member states. i believe that the proposed directive brings effective and proportionate measures against tax evasion and therefore i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu as regards access to information by tax authorities on the prevention of money laundering.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european central bank's annual report 2015, as the main task at this time is to ensure price stability and to support the basic economic policies. the 2015 annual report therefore focuses back on the main elements of the ecb's activity, namely monetary activity. it also offers a balanced interim monetary policy and focuses on structural reforms and the dangers of low interest rates. i also pointed out that the policy of low interest rates has some negative effects and that pension systems in individual countries, especially those linked to guaranteed returns, will soon face serious problems.
in writing. ‒ the parliament's report on the european central bank's annual report 2015 notes that the high level of public debt and the large number of bad loans in the banking sector continue to weaken the euro area financial market, while highlighting some important facts about the current situation in the financial area. the report also highlights the worrying practice of the ecb, which, by providing liquidity to banks at negative interest rates and removing the requirement to repay assets if the loans fall short of their benchmark, reduces the link between providing liquidity to central banks and lending to the real economy. it also stresses that banks with very low costs can access funds to subsidize their balance sheet, while the effects on the real economy would be minimal and these subsidies are not subject to strict conditions regarding the execution and purpose of the investments. despite many important findings, the report does not address some other topical issues, such as the need to promote a more sustainable economy, and does not include a requirement to establish mechanisms to channel funds into investments with a long-term positive impact on society and the environment, so i abstained from voting on this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the annual report of the european central bank for 2015. when the european central bank decided in 2012 to do its utmost to safeguard the euro, it made a very important contribution to maintaining financial stability in the euro area. the euro area will face a negative risk if the united kingdom leaves the european union. i support european central bank president draghi's view that a single monetary policy is not enough to ensure stable growth in the eu, unless it is accompanied by systemic measures and structural reforms at member state level. slovenia is one of those countries that has been talking about structural reforms for years but has unfortunately not yet adopted them.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a european parliament resolution on the annual report 2015 of the european central bank. the annual report focuses on the ecb's monetary policy activities and deals only with actual annual developments at the ecb. the low interest rate policy pursued by the ecb has produced certain results. unlocking the extra money to grow the economy was a good decision. however, it would not be good to continue to maintain low interest rates. finally, it also represents a major risk for pension funds, for which interest is a means of preserving and increasing assets. it seems that those countries that have not made the necessary reforms in the past have been the ones that have been stunted. and that's very dangerous, because the next crisis, if it comes, which it will, will be even less prepared than we've been. slovenia is certainly one such example, as can be seen from the european semester reports. the strength of the european monetary system also depends on the strength of each individual, however small, national system. the banking problems faced by countries were not only the result of the crisis but mainly of unintentional, often deliberately harmful behaviour by individuals or certain interested groups. the ecb should promote liability disclosure within its remit. the commission notes that the bank of slovenia has not provided any evidence that the bank of slovenia has been able to restore its long-term viability.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european central bank annual report for 2015. the report stresses that the euro area continues to suffer from a high level of unemployment, excessive low inflation and large macroeconomic imbalances. the report underlines the federal nature of the european central bank, which rules out national vetoes, enabling it to act decisively in addressing the crisis. in addition, it notes that the app would have a higher impact on the european economy if it was accompanied by effective and socially balanced structural reforms designed to increase the competitiveness of the european economy. i voted in favour because i believe that a well-functioning, diversified and integrated capital market would support the channels of transmission of the single monetary policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the annual report of the european central bank for the financial year 2015 because i believe it gives a balanced and realistic assessment of the impact of monetary policies and structural reforms and the risks of low interest rate policy.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the green paper in question, as it is the european parliament's response to the european commission's green paper. the strategic objective of the document is to decide how to further open up the european financial market to deliver better outcomes for consumers and businesses, while ensuring equal protection for consumers and investors. these objectives will be ensured through digitalisation, ensuring diversity of providers and the need to provide better opportunities for smes.
in writing. ‒ retail financial services, which include personal bank accounts, payments, personal loans, mortgages and savings accounts, are part of the daily lives of european citizens. however, inefficient competition, particularly in the area of payments and banking, has led to large differences in the access of consumers to high-quality services at the same level of benefit between member states. the european union has made little progress in creating a single market for retail financial services in the past and this green paper provides the necessary impetus to remove cross-border barriers and connect financial actors from all member states with consumers across the european union, to ensure choice, value and quality for all consumers, thereby strengthening their trust in providers and making the right decisions in the light of their individual financial circumstances. the parliament's report welcomes the commission's initiative as it responds appropriately to the rapidly changing market environment by promoting integration and the cross-border provision of financial services. the report, which stresses, inter alia, the need for a high level of consumer protection legislation and its consistent implementation in the eu, calls on the commission to investigate misleading practices faced by consumers in card payments and currency conversion atm withdrawals, and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the green paper on retail financial services. in many areas, the european internal market has not yet reached its potential and is not functioning as it should. one of these areas is also the eu retail financial services market, which is highly fragmented and rather undeveloped. i support the commission's green paper on retail financial services, which has opened up a public debate with the various stakeholders in the retail financial services sector. the report rightly concludes that the green paper initiative was conceived at the right time, particularly in the light of proactive action at all stages of policy-making. only then will we be able to respond effectively and appropriately to the rapid developments we are witnessing.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a european parliament resolution on the green paper on retail financial services. the resolution is the first step towards improving retail financial services. but we have a lot of work to do. building a well-functioning single market in retail financial services is a major project that is certainly paying off. this is a clear example of real eu added value creation. the green paper contains a number of points where the current legislation could be further improved by amendments in the coming years. it is timely, given the rise of digitalisation, which offers new opportunities for the common market. there is also a huge potential in crossborder activities, which is not exploited due to barriers (problem 28 of non-competitive national markets). while many of the ideas in the green paper seem promising, most need to be backed up by substantial and relevant empirical data. the book also summarises several challenges: how to approach improving data collection and data analysis, how to put identification into practice, how to maintain and create a level playing field, how to ensure that differences between member states are as small as possible in order to make the single market truly effective, and how to ensure inclusion for all.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the green paper on retail financial services. the green paper mainly focuses on financial services for citizens who are looking for cross-border services. the report stresses that a european retail financial services market must benefit smes in terms of both supply and demand. it takes the view that digitalisation will continue to create new opportunities for consumers, investors, smes and other companies in terms of competition, cross-border activities and innovation i voted in favour because i believe that simplification of legislation is crucial in efforts to make products more easily comparable across the member states’ markets.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the green paper on retail financial services. the eu market for retail financial services is still quite underdeveloped and highly fragmented, especially with regard to the low number of cross-border transactions. the green paper focuses mainly on financial services for citizens seeking crossborder services. it is important that the new proposals also benefit all consumers in the eu, ensuring that the retail financial services market works for all. i supported the green paper because i believe it proposes effective measures to unlock the full potential of the single market and to stimulate innovation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report because i am aware that the security situation in europe and its environs has deteriorated significantly in recent years. deterioration means that we are facing severe challenges that no country or organization can face alone. the security of europe and its territory is thus threatened by terrorism, while the continuing violence in north africa and the middle east continues to spread. we are also facing a serious migration crisis that has not yet passed. in view of all these facts, however, i think it is appropriate to protect our citizens appropriately by measures in the field of defence policy.
in writing. ‒ i do not think that the report in question takes the most systematic approach to the european defence union. the rapporteur could have been more systematic in the sense of taking into account what has already been achieved and done in this area. as an example, the report does not even provide a precise definition of what the european defence union is and what it means in light of developments in this field in 2016. i see the report as a sort of list of everything that can be linked and associated with military and defence issues at european level. the report includes the concept of developing an eu-wide territorial defence policy and a european army to be supported and financed by all member states. in addition, the report touches on drones and the financing of military research at eu level. as i find this problematic and as the report covers too many aspects which are not really within its competence, i abstained from voting on the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european defence union. in europe, we are facing a rapidly changing security situation both within and around us. with the deterioration of the security situation, we are faced with new challenges to which we must find the right answers. i support the formulation of a common union defence policy and the provision of additional financial resources for its implementation. i support the opinion of the committee on budgets which calls for more ambitious civilian missions, better integrated into the policy cycle and available instruments, and aligned with the overall objectives of the eu's external policies, while promoting eu values such as peace, security and respect for human rights.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the european defence union. the resolution takes account of the fact that the security situation in and around europe has deteriorated significantly in recent years. terrorism, hybrid threats, economic volatility, lack of cyber and energy security, organised crime and climate change are among the major threats to security. article 42 of the eu treaty requires the progressive framing of a common union defence policy within the framework of a common security and defence policy leading to an eu common defence (this article also provides for the establishment of defence institutions and a european capabilities and armaments policy). so far, none of the other missing elements of the eu's common security and defence policy, apart from the establishment of a european defence agency, has been designed, concluded or implemented. the eu-level white paper on security and defence will further strengthen the common security and defence policy (csdp) and the eu's capacity to deliver security under the lisbon treaty and could provide useful reflection on a future and more effective csdp, as well as a unique opportunity to propose additional measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european defence union. terrorism, hybrid threats and cyber and energy insecurity leave eu countries no choice but to step up their security and defence cooperation efforts. the security situation in and around europe has worsened significantly in recent years, due to challenges like terrorism, hybrid threats or cyber and energy insecurity, that no country is able to tackle alone. the eu has to respond faster and more robustly to real threats, which demand that europe’s armed forces work together better. i voted in favour because i believe that solidarity and resilience require the eu to stand and act together.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european defence union. the security situation in europe and elsewhere has deteriorated significantly in recent years due to challenges such as terrorism, hybrid threats or the lack of cyber and energy security, to which no country can adequately respond on its own. i agree that the eu needs the political will and determination to develop and implement a common security and defence policy in accordance with the lisbon treaty, which is binding under international law, in order to ensure long-term security and peace in the world.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal because i think it is important to make the most of the potential offered by watercourses and sea surfaces. europe, with its unique geography, is known to offer many opportunities. it is therefore important to recognise that long coasts, many islands and rivers offer exceptional opportunities for sustainable waterborne passenger transport. we have also recently seen the rapid development of various vessels, taking into account that, thanks to technological developments, water transport may prove to be an alternative to congested road transport.
in writing. ‒ the european union, with its long coasts, islands and numerous rivers, offers excellent opportunities for the development of sustainable waterborne passenger transport, which plays an important role in connecting european regions and can make a major contribution to strengthening cohesion. due to its intensive technological development, e.g. the development of vessels for transport on rivers and seas, waterborne passenger transport has long been offered as a more environmentally friendly mode of transport and an alternative to dense road traffic towards urban centres. increased use of waterborne passenger capacity would make a significant contribution, in particular, to reducing congestion and emissions and improving air quality. the parliament's report rightly points out that waterborne passenger transport should play a greater role in the transport policy of the eu and the member states and encourages the commission and the member states to improve their infrastructure by strengthening transport links and developing motorways of the sea. the report proposes, inter alia, better integration of waterborne passenger transport into urban and regional public transport networks to improve mobility and quality of life and to reduce congestion on land transport networks. on the basis of the above and the fact that the report strongly emphasises the crucial importance of waterborne passenger transport also for the development of sustainable tourism in coastal, island and lake regions and its link with the pan-european cycling network to enhance the attractiveness of european regions, i supported the report in the vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on unlocking the potential of passenger transport by waterways. so for us who use shipping services mainly for leisure purposes, and even more so for those of us who depend on them on a daily basis, the availability and good connectivity of shipping services with other transport links is important. the appropriate involvement of maritime passenger transport in projects promoting transport multimodalism, such as the integrated european ticketing system, the trans-european transport networks and the connecting europe facility, is important. i welcome the report which points to a number of changes needed in passenger shipping to increase its use with many positive effects, such as reducing congestion on the roads.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a european parliament resolution on unlocking the potential of passenger transport by waterways. waterborne passenger transport, including sea ferries, inland waterway ferries, barges and passenger ships, plays an essential role in achieving a more sustainable and efficient european transport sector. a large proportion of the transport of daily migrants is carried by road, creating a bottleneck. the increased use of passenger water transport would facilitate this and also reduce co2 emissions. most of europe is characterised by navigable rivers and in many areas across europe, travelling by ferry or passenger vessel would be more sustainable, easier and faster, thus increasing the social and economic well-being of the region. the use of passenger water transport could also be used for tourism purposes. passenger ships play an important role in the mobility of european citizens, with more than 400 million people passing through eu ports every year, 120 million of them passing between ports in the same member state. eu legislation on passenger ship safety has been slowly introduced over the last 15 years, mainly in response to accidents, which has improved the safety of passenger water transport. while waterborne passenger transport is already one of the most sustainable modes of transport, there is still room for improvement, particularly in the area of innovative technologies for cleaner and more energy-efficient vessels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on unleashing the potential of waterborne passenger transport. waterborne passenger transport, including maritime ferries, inland ferries, barges and cruises, plays a crucial role in achieving a more sustainable and efficient european transport sector, assisted by policies that address safety, environmental standards, cross-border cooperation and competitiveness as well as service quality, passenger rights and barrier-free accessibility. a large number of commuters in europe travel by road, creating bottlenecks, congestion and delays on europe’s urban routes. furthermore, excess capacity of waterborne passenger transport vessels and infrastructure should be considered in the field of tourism. i voted in favour because i believe that even though waterborne transport is already one of the most sustainable ways to travel, there is further potential to make vessels cleaner and more energy efficient through investment in research and innovative technologies.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on unlocking the potential of passenger transport by waterways. europe's geography, with its long coasts and many islands and rivers, offers exceptional opportunities for sustainable waterborne passenger transport. however, passenger and freight water transport faces different challenges and has different needs related to infrastructure, environmental challenges, operational issues, security and port-to-city links. given the great potential and desirability of integrating water transport into the multimodal mobility framework, i agree that there is a need to invest in improving water infrastructure, in developing expertise in the maritime sector in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i agree that there is a need to increase the effectiveness of development cooperation. the principles of aid effectiveness have clearly contributed to progress towards the mdgs in many countries, but there are still gaps in progress and not all countries and development actors have fully implemented all the principles at all times. i therefore agree that all development actors need to be called upon to build on the commitments made from paris to busan and to renew and strengthen efforts to increase the effectiveness of development cooperation in order to achieve the ambitious goals of the 2030 agenda and to make the best use of public and private development resources. in this way, we will be able to support development, better eradicate poverty, reduce inequalities and support the provision of basic public services.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the principle of aid effectiveness has clearly contributed to progress towards the achievement of development objectives in many countries. it is true that there are still clear differences in progress between countries, but if the development programme continues to be supported, these differences can be reduced and erased over time. in addition, oda can play an important role in the implementation of the 2030 agenda, in particular in low-income countries, as well as in the fight against extreme poverty and inequality. it should be noted that this needs to be better targeted and respect the principles of effective development cooperation, democratic accountability of states, coherence, local capacity building, transparency and democratic accountability, focus on results and inclusion. the use of all available development policy tools is good for eradicating poverty and promoting the sustainable development goals. however, i believe that the effectiveness of development finance should be assessed on the basis of its concrete results and its contribution to development policy as a whole. i voted in favour of the resolution, as i believe that development cooperation is an important element in delivering on the development effectiveness agenda, eradicating poverty and reducing inequalities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on increasing the effectiveness of development cooperation. in order to follow up on the commitments and targets of the 2030 agenda and thus leverage public and private development resources, we need to step up efforts to increase the effectiveness of development cooperation. we are still facing disparities in progress, as not all countries and other actors have consistently implemented all the principles. i support the call to use all development policy tools to eradicate poverty and promote the sustainable development goals.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on increasing the effectiveness of development cooperation. the eu is the world's largest donor of development aid and therefore has a particular responsibility to improve the efficiency of its aid and increase the accountability that goes with it. in addition, the eu should be at the forefront of global efforts to advance the development effectiveness agenda and ensure that transparency, good governance and the rule of law in developing countries remain at the centre of attention. the eu is committed in the long term to improving the effectiveness of aid and development through development cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on increasing the effectiveness of development cooperation. the eu has a long-standing commitment to improving aid and development effectiveness through development cooperation. the commitments taken in busan, building on the acquis of the 2005 paris declaration and 2008 accra agenda for action, have helped define an international standard on aid effectiveness applicable to all actors of development. the eu, which has played a major role both in building the current standards for aid and development effectiveness, and in the adoption of agenda 2030, should continue to assume leadership on these issues and contribute to the reflection on the articulation and synergies between the two, now that we have entered the implementation stage. i voted in favour because i strongly believe that more needs to be done, both at eu and global level, to increase the effectiveness of aid and development cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on increasing the effectiveness of development cooperation. development challenges have been transformed by new global challenges such as migration, food security, peace and stability and climate change, and we need decisive approaches and collaboration to address them. the report confirms the importance of official development assistance and sustainable development finance, while also encouraging a self-initiative approach that goes beyond the assistance provided by official development programmes. i believe it is important that all development actors engage in poverty eradication and the promotion of the sustainable development goals through closer cooperation and a sense of shared responsibility for development outcomes. the effectiveness of development cooperation cannot be ensured without peace, respect for human rights and the rule of law and international principles and standards of law.
the future of syria is increasingly uncertain as attacks on aleppo and other parts of syria have intensified. the attacks on the civilian population and the lack of access to much-needed humanitarian assistance for the people of syria, as well as the attacks on humanitarian convoys, must be strongly condemned. the main victims are women, children and the elderly, who are left without access to humanitarian aid, food, water and healthcare. i welcome the european union's cooperation with the united nations in trying to resolve the problem in this area. the actions of putin, russia and the assad regime must be strongly condemned. the european union must continue to work for peace and play a more important mediating role in reaching a peace agreement for syria.
i welcome the work of our rapporteur, kati piri, who has been following the situation in turkey with great responsibility. turkey is an important strategic partner of the union. we have shared challenges and opportunities, and i wish we had a different conversation today. i'm afraid that's not the case. the picture is black. the number of politicians, journalists and academics in prison is unacceptable. we get reports every day of alleged suicides in prisons. the death toll is rising. my colleagues were not allowed to visit the jailed opposition leader these days. they also refused to allow piri's colleagues to enter the country. and all of these facts call into question the state of democracy in turkey. we can't just act like this is business as usual. respect for human rights, the rule of law and democracy are not negotiable, nor is the death penalty. i therefore strongly support the temporary freeze of the accession negotiations and hope that the next debate will take place in a better atmosphere.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the turkish authorities have been acting in a manner contrary to the principle of proportionality. today, they're becoming completely unreliable. i think it is necessary to say to the turkish people that europe simply cannot and must not accept turkey as it is today within the framework of the european union, because it is not a country that respects our values. i also wonder very much whether turkey wants to join and respect the values we have in europe today, or whether it imagines that europe will adapt to their standards. so i think it's the right thing to do to freeze these negotiations. at the same time, i think we have to think very seriously about how we are going to protect our interests, european interests, in cyprus and also in greece. but above all, i am afraid to prepare for a new wave of refugees, because the measures taken by erdogan may be the most powerful for him in this area, but also very controversial and difficult for us.
i join in congratulating my colleague pascu and the shadow rapporteurs on a clear report. clearly, soft power is not enough to bring peace. that is why i have long supported a stronger defence identity for the european union and i see no danger of duplication with nato. but our problem is not technical or organizational. our key challenge is to provide political support for the defence strategy, which requires a comprehensive political strategy of the european union, which alone can help to implement the european defence strategy.
in writing. i believe that the skills guarantee will help european union citizens to acquire a basic level or to progress to a higher level of writing, computing and digital literacy. these are skills that are urgently needed in today's rapidly changing labour market and will help our citizens make the transition from education to employment and, as adults, to a more independent life. the programme can have a very positive impact, as it will enable our citizens to acquire a wide range of knowledge and skills that will be equally recognised throughout the eu. in europe, almost 70 million people are facing a lack of literacy and even more lack basic mathematical and digital literacy. without these basic skills, they are at even greater risk of becoming unemployed, poor or socially excluded. i believe that the new skills programme is essential and that it will help our citizens to acquire basic skills and also to find employment more easily.
this initiative represents a very important step in facilitating the integration of deaf and hard of hearing people into society and the labour market. sign language is a fundamental right of deaf people and is also their first and official language, so it is very important that they have the opportunity to communicate in this language, both in society and in the workplace. i believe that they should always be guaranteed access to information, communication, education and employment, which would of course also allow them to live independently. it is the member states which should ensure that all material is accessible to the hearing impaired in their institutions. since the european institutions are supposed to be examples of best practice, i believe that sign language should also become one of the official languages of the european parliament and interpreters should be available at all committee meetings. in conclusion, i would also like to say that in my work i will also make internships and traineeships available to hearing-impaired people, and i also put this decision to my colleagues.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposed calendar of part-sessions of the european parliament for 2018, and thereby supported the proposal, as it seemed to me to be good and appropriate.
in writing. ‒ i supported the calendar of part-sessions of parliament for 2018.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the parliament’s calendar of part-sessions for 2018 because i do not have any objections to the schedule of the parliament’s part-sessions for 2018.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because, after a detailed examination of the legal arguments available, i found that these dilemmas, as mentioned by the proposers, had already been clarified. the competent committees, which have been working on the agreement for several years, have already checked the legal compatibility of the agreement with our legal order, and no deviations were found by the legal service of the european parliament, which, as an independent body, provided a comprehensive explanation of this opinion. the court of justice of the eu's opinion would delay the entry into force of ceta by at least two years and, under eu law, this court also has entirely different jurisdiction. i therefore see no added value in this request other than to drag the matter out indefinitely and the eu would continue to benefit from the bad reputation of an incompetent and unreliable negotiator and partner in the world.
in writing. ‒ the resolution calls on the court of justice of the eu to assess the compatibility of ceta with eu law. if this is really as good an agreement as the european commission is trying to convince us, what are certain people afraid of? in view of all the criticisms and warnings directed at the international arbitral tribunals, i believe that the court of justice of the eu should rule on this matter before ceta enters into force. it's becoming increasingly clear that ceto wants to go underground in a big hurry, and that's despite all the trampled democratic standards. it seems that democracy is just a distraction for the cete designers. it is outrageous that the european parliament should even be restricted in its democratic debate on such an important subject, on which our future depends, since the motion for a resolution was not even allowed to be debated. parliamentary committees responsible for some of the key areas where ceta will have a strong impact, such as environment, health, food safety, employment, social affairs and consumer protection, will also be excluded from the decision-making process on the whole agreement. such actions are contrary to the basic concepts of democracy and freedom of expression. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution, supporting the call for the court of justice of the eu to rule on the compatibility of ceta with eu law.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution requesting the opinion of the court of justice on the compatibility of the proposed comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) between canada and the european union with the treaties. negotiations on an economic cooperation agreement between the european union and canada were concluded in august 2014, and a legal review was completed earlier this year. i cannot support the resolution because it is vague and too vague on the main point: the lack of legal certainty as to the compatibility of the proposed agreement with the treaties.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 108 (6) of the rules of procedure on the request for an opinion of the court on the compatibility of the proposed agreement on a comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) between canada and the european union with the treaties. some member states are questioning whether the eu-canada free trade agreement is in line with some eu guidelines, such as the protection of health, safety and the environment. the european parliament has not identified any contradiction between the investment chapter of ceta and certain eu agreements. some members of parliament then asked for an additional opinion on the compatibility of the agreement and therefore turned to the court of justice. ceta is an agreement that will create new jobs for the european economy. it will bring european companies more and better economic opportunities than canada has to offer. the agreement will save exporters more than eur 500 million a year and create the conditions for better economic cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against of the opinion from the court of justice on the compatibility with the treaties of the proposed agreement between canada and the european union on a comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta). negotiators finished the negotiations on ceta in august 2014, and completed the legal review on 29 february 2016. the text of the agreement submitted to the council to be concluded, signed and provisionally applied contains a chapter on investment (chapter eight), which includes a section on investment protection and a section on the resolution of investment disputes between investors and states. i voted against because i see no reason to delay further a final decision of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the motion for a resolution to obtain the opinion of the court of justice on the compatibility of the proposed agreement on a comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) between canada and the european union with the treaties, as i consider that the trade agreement in question is compatible with the provisions of the treaty on european union and the treaty on the functioning of the european union and will contribute to strengthening sustainable economic development.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the proposed amendment to the directive because i know how important it is to continue good practice in reducing emissions of the main air pollutants. cleaner air has an important public health aspect. low air quality contributes to premature mortality, sickness absence from work, high healthcare costs, reduced productivity, lost crops and damage to buildings. in this context, it is of concern that, despite the work done to reduce air pollution across the union, many member states are still falling short of the agreed standards. in addition, the eu is still far from its long-term goal: to respect the recommended limit values as dictated by the world health organisation guidelines.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a directive under consideration in this report ensures that the existing air pollutant emission ceilings in directive 2001/81/ec will apply until 2020, while setting new national emission reduction commitments until 2030. national emission ceilings are intended to reduce air pollution and its harmful effects on public health and the environment throughout the european union. as air pollution is of a transboundary nature, this issue requires a multi-level approach, with some responsibility to be taken on at european as well as national, regional and local levels. pollution reduction will only be possible through an integrated approach that takes into account the responsibility of polluters, jurisdiction and fair sharing of costs. the commission proposal is unfortunately too lax in several respects, for example by failing to impose binding interim (2025) targets on member states to encourage them to reduce emissions continuously and evenly and to meet the 2030 targets, by completely excluding harmful methane from the list of pollutants, and by failing to take into account parliament's calls for legislative amendments that take greater account of the importance of clean air and other environmental objectives. the parliament's report does not address these shortcomings, nor does it propose any appropriate amendments to the commission's proposal, which is why i did not support it in the vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain air pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec. air pollution, which in figures represents €330940 billion per year in the total cost to society of air pollution, must remain an important issue to be addressed at the level of the european union as a whole. i support the commission's proposal to introduce a new directive setting new emission ceilings for certain chemical compounds. we are faced with the problem that many member states are still not meeting the agreed standards.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a directive of the eu parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain air pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec. eu legislation must be based on evidence-based policy making. the commission's proposal is clear on air quality, which is a major cross-border issue and affects both human health and the environment. low air quality contributes to premature mortality, sickness absence from work, high healthcare costs, reduced productivity, lost crops and damage to buildings. in europe, the total external costs to society related to health resulting from air pollution are estimated at around eur 330-940 billion per year. in addition, there is increasing evidence that the deposition of atmospheric nitrogen particles in the atmosphere causes changes in the natural environment, such as reduced diversity of native vegetation, reduced plant growth and an unbalanced nutritional status due to eutrophication and acidification. the commission proposal repeals and replaces the current national emission ceilings directive and sets new emission ceilings for sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ammonia and volatile organic compounds for the period from 2020 and from 2030.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec. close to half a million europeans die every year from diseases linked to the millions of tons of gases and particulates human activity releases into the atmosphere. the aim of the new directive is to set tougher emission limits for key air pollutants. i voted in favour because i believe that the directive would set national targets to reduce emissions from five key air pollutants by 2030 compared to 2005.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec. efforts to achieve high air quality that does not have major negative impacts on human health and the environment and does not seriously threaten human health and the environment are one of the essential elements of sustainable development to which the eu is committed. since i believe that the measures of the proposed directive will contribute to the progressive reduction of air pollution and to the provision of a high level of protection of human health and the environment, i supported it.
in writing. ‒ i support the motions for resolutions because a resilient and well-capitalised banking system is a fundamental condition for maintaining financial stability and providing adequate credit and contributes to economic growth. in addition, in the context of the recovery from the financial crisis, the g20 leaders agreed on a comprehensive reform agenda to strengthen the regulatory standards of international banks, including enhanced prudential and safety requirements, in order to prevent further banking crises.
in writing. ‒ a sustainable and well-capitalised banking system and strong global standards and principles are key to maintaining financial stability and providing credit to the real economy. the basel committee on banking supervision brings together central banks and supervisors of major banking institutions around the world to develop internationally agreed minimum standards for prudent and sound banking and to address the negative consequences of the global economic and financial crisis that countries in the european union and elsewhere continue to face. the parliament's report does indeed provide some good starting points for the future, such as preventing the negative effects of an unreliable financial system on the real economy and withdrawing the right to use standard banking practices where these have already proved unsuccessful, giving supervisors the power to require banks to accurately calculate the risk of traditional banking instruments, and parliament's commitment to continue to advocate for the prevention of a new wave of bad bank rescues. however, given the lack of ambition and the weakness of the basel committee on banking supervision's recommendations, the fact that the promises of world leaders to stop taxpayers paying for irresponsible bank behaviour have not been fulfilled to date, and the strong possibility that we will see even negative deregulation in this area in the future, i did not support the report in my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the question for an oral answer on the completion of the basel iii framework. banking's irresponsible lending to businesses also contributed to the recent financial and economic crisis, the effects of which are still felt in many countries. i support good banking supervision and the requirements for prudent and safe operations. the resolution rightly stresses that banks need to be well capitalised in order to support the real economy and reduce systemic risk and to avoid a repeat of the large-scale public rescue measures that we witnessed during the crisis. fair competition and financial stability will be achieved through the proper regulation of the non-bank credit sector.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the completion of the basel iii framework, as a resilient and well-capitalised banking system is a fundamental condition for maintaining financial stability and providing adequate lending to the real economy throughout the life cycle and contributes to economic growth. the basel committee also develops standards for the safe and prudent operation of large international banks. it discusses further changes to the credit rating framework for banks relating to credit and operational risk, which is positive. these reforms focus on increasing the risk sensitivity and robustness of standardised approaches to credit risk. the basel committee is committed to the need for strong global standards to regulate the prudent and safe operation of banks.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution further to question for oral answer b8 001810/2016 pursuant to rule 128(5) of the rules of procedure on the finalisation of basel iii. a resilient and well capitalised banking system is a prerequisite for preserving financial stability, providing appropriate lending to the real economy throughout the cycle and supporting economic growth. the g20 leaders agreed in the aftermath of the financial crisis to a comprehensive reform agenda strengthening the regulatory standards of international banks, including the strengthening of prudential requirements. the european union implemented the internationally agreed standards in the framework of the capital requirements regulation (crr) and capital requirements directive (crd iv). i voted against because i believe the approach, which assumes that every standard has to be applied in the same way, would not be efficient or proportionate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the completion of the basel iii framework. a resilient and well-capitalised banking system is a fundamental prerequisite for maintaining financial stability and contributes to economic growth. as banks play a very important role in financing the european economy and are likely to remain the main source of financing for households and businesses, effective banking supervision is needed to complete the basel iii framework, which aims to increase clarity, comparability and a risk-adjusted capital framework, to eliminate excessive risk-adjusted asset volatility and to apply the same rules for the same risks.
in writing. ‒ i agree that a common security and defence policy should be implemented at eu level. it is noted that the european security environment has deteriorated significantly and has become more uncertain, more complex, more dangerous and less predictable. the threats are both conventional and hybrid. they are created by both state and non-state actors from the south and east and affect each member state differently. it should be noted that the security of eu member states is highly intertwined. however, member states respond to common threats and risks in a disjointed and fragmented way, which makes it difficult and often impedes the implementation of a more unified approach. calls for a strong prevention policy based on comprehensive de-radicalisation programmes are therefore appropriate. the establishment of permanent structured cooperation (article 42 (6) teu) will allow the development of a self-defence or permanent defence structure to enhance crisis management operations.
in writing. ‒ the parliament's report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy finds that the european security environment has recently become much more uncertain, dangerous and unpredictable, and that member states are responding to common threats in a disjointed way, making a unified eu approach very difficult. despite supporting the rapporteur's preliminary conclusions, i do not agree that the eu's common security and defence policy should be heavily revised, but that its implementation should be improved and made more effective. i also disagree with the statement that europe is no longer able to control security within its borders, but i believe that efforts to stabilise and to make the security sector more competitive and efficient need to be stepped up. as the parliament's report does not include the essential principles that we in the greens/efa group stand for, such as disagreeing with the use of european funds for defence research at eu level and strengthening the armed forces of third countries, while also making a number of demands that are contrary to our convictions, i did not support it in the vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy (based on the annual report from the council to the european parliament on the common foreign and security policy). the security environment has changed considerably in recent years due to various circumstances and the eu needs to respond to all these changes and adapt accordingly. i support the report which stresses that the eu should strengthen dialogue and cooperation with third countries in the region as well as with regional organisations and that it should be prepared to cope with structural changes in the international security environment and with challenges involving interstate conflicts.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the implementation of the common security and defence policy (based on the annual report from the council to the european parliament on the common foreign and security policy). athe european security environment has deteriorated significantly and become more uncertain, complex, dangerous and unpredictable. security in the eu is highly interconnected across countries and countries respond to threats and risks in a heterogeneous and inconsistent way, which needs to change. disagreement and disunity contribute to europe's vulnerability and inability to act together against threats. the cfsp (common security and defence policy) was one of the steps towards unity and coherence but, due to structural weaknesses, cfsp action is still ineffective. the eu and nato strategic plans are similar and must therefore act in a coherent and complementary manner. the relationship between organisations must be cooperative and not competitive. the step towards cooperation was the signing of the warsaw joint declaration on enhancing cooperation on hybrid and cyber threats. the development of a strong defence industry is also needed to strengthen the eu's strategic autonomy and technological independence. member states are not yet implementing systematic and long-term defence cooperation with sufficient commitment and this needs to change.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy (based on the annual report from the council to the european parliament on the common foreign and security policy). the european security environment has deteriorated considerably, becoming more fluid, more complex, more dangerous and less predictable. the security of the eu member states is deeply interconnected and they react to common threats and risks in an uncoordinated and fragmented way. the report calls for a strong preventive policy based on comprehensive deradicalisation programmes. i voted in favour because i believe that a thorough and substantial revision of the csdp is needed in order to enable the eu and its member states to contribute in a decisive way to the security of the union, to the management of international crises and to asserting the eu’s strategic autonomy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy. the european security environment has become more uncertain, more complex, more dangerous and less predictable. europe now has to respond to a number of increasingly complex crises in an area stretching from west africa through the sahel, the horn of africa and the middle east, and from eastern ukraine to the caucasus. to be ready to manage structural changes in the international security environment and to be a strong peacebuilder, the eu needs to work more closely with its member states and develop a coordinated approach within the framework of the common security and defence policy.
in writing. ‒ i agree that strategic communication is needed to counter this propaganda. the eu and its member states are facing increasing, systematic pressure as they have to cope with information and disinformation campaigns and propaganda by certain states and non-governmental actors. information warfare is a historical phenomenon as old as war itself. it is an indispensable part of hybrid warfare, a combination of covert and overt military and non-military actions designed to destabilize the political, economic and social situation in the country being attacked without a formal declaration of war. these attacks are not only faced by the eu's partners, but also by the european union, its institutions, all member states and citizens, regardless of nationality or religion. it is therefore important to be aware of the threats and to respond appropriately.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on eu strategic communication against propaganda directed against it by third parties. in recent years, we have witnessed a change in the security environment in europe. the european union is thus faced, among other things, with numerous threats, propaganda and various forms of populism aimed at an economically, politically and socially destabilised eu. despite the fact that preventing threats to the eu from third parties is primarily a member state responsibility, we need a uniform framework at the level of the european union. by strengthening the integration between member states on the one hand and between the european union and nato on the other, we will strengthen europe in security and defence matters.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on eu strategic communication against propaganda directed against it by third parties. the eu is committed to respecting the principles of democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, media freedom, access to information, freedom of expression and media pluralism in its actions on the international stage. the new member states are under increasing information and disinformation pressure from certain actors who wish to undermine objective truth. and that shakes democratic principles and values. information wars aimed at destabilising the political, economic and social situation in the country should be opposed. it is also necessary to legitimise actions that threaten the sovereignty and political independence of eu member states, the security of their citizens and their territorial integrity. the problem is primarily russian communications.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on eu strategic communication to counteract propaganda against it by third parties. the eu, its member states and citizens are under growing, systematic pressure to tackle information, disinformation and misinformation campaigns and propaganda from countries and non-state actors, such as transnational terrorist and criminal organisations in its neighbourhood. the report underlines that the eu must consider its strategic communication efforts as a priority, which should involve relevant resources. i voted against because i believe that the report is one-sided and that it wrongfully equates the situation in russia with propaganda carried out by the terrorists linked to isil.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on eu strategic communication against propaganda directed against it by third parties. the eu is exposed to information and disinformation campaigns and propaganda by states and non-governmental actors, such as terrorist and criminal organisations in the neighbourhood, which undermine the democratic values and interests of the eu and disseminate biased information or exploit it as an instrument of political power. i therefore agree that the eu must give priority to its strategic communication at different levels, including with the eu institutions, member states, the various nato and un bodies, ngos and civil society organisations. an effective and responsible approach to communication must also include awareness-raising, education of eu citizens and the development of online, media and information literacy in the eu and its neighbourhood.
in writing. ‒ i support the motions for resolutions because all disabled people, including deaf and hard of hearing people, some of whom use sign language, have full equality of rights as full citizens and an inalienable right to respect for their dignity, equal treatment and independent life, autonomy and full participation in society. given that there are approximately one million deaf sign language users in the eu and 51 million deaf citizens, many of whom also use sign language, it is important to make their lives as easy as possible and to enable them to participate equally in society.
in writing. ‒ i believe that all persons with disabilities should be granted equal rights and the inalienable right to respect for their dignity, equal treatment and to live independently, be independent and participate fully in society. at this point, it is important to note that there are approximately one million deaf sign language users in the eu and 51 million deaf citizens, many of whom use sign language. it should also be borne in mind that national and regional sign languages are fully developed natural languages with their own grammatical and syntactic rules, just like spoken languages. the lack of qualified and professional sign language interpreters in all member states is a cause for concern. there is a pressing need for trained and professional sign language interpreters in all member states. increasing the number of interpreters can be achieved by officially recognising national and regional sign languages in the member states and the eu institutions, by providing formal training and by officially recognising the profession of sign language interpreter. i also support the resolution's demand that deaf, deaf-blind and deaf-mutes citizens should have the same access to information and communication as hearing people. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of the resolution and supported it in the vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution at the end of the debate on the commission statement on sign languages and professional sign language interpreters. i support the resolution which stresses that deaf, deaf-blind and deaf-mutes citizens must have access to the same information and communication as hearing people. in the european union, it is estimated that there are approximately one million deaf users of sign language and 51 million deaf citizens. in the light of the increased access of deaf and hard of hearing citizens to information and communication on an equal basis, public and government services should be accessible through sign language interpreters on-site or remotely via the internet.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a european parliament resolution on sign languages and professional sign language interpreters. people with hearing impairments must also have the same rights and be treated equally. they must have autonomy, the possibility of living independently and participating in society. any discrimination must be condemned, as is also the case with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. it is important to ensure that as many people as possible have a command of sign language, or that as many people as possible have the opportunity to learn it and to act as interpreters. any development of new language technologies would be of great help to sign language users. deaf people would have easier access to health care, justice, and education through official interpreters. the european institutions have already made a big step in this direction, but the next step could be to make sign language one of the official languages in the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution to wind up the debate on the statement by the commission pursuant to rule 123(2) of the rules of procedure on sign languages and professional sign language interpreters. as full citizens, all persons with disabilities, in particular women and children, are entitled to inalienable dignity, equal treatment, independent living, autonomy and full participation in society. there are approximately one million deaf sign language users in the eu and 51 million hard-of-hearing citizens, many of whom are also sign language users. the report recognises that sign language interpretation constitutes a professional service requiring appropriate remuneration. it equally stresses the need for qualified and professional sign language interpreters. i voted in favour because i believe that deaf, deafblind and hard-of-hearing citizens must have access to the same information and communication as their peers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on sign languages and professional sign language interpreters. deaf, deaf-blind and hard of hearing citizens must have access to the same information and communication as hearing people through sign language interpretation, captioning, automatic speech recording and/or other forms of communication, including voice interpreters. we're giving them the freedom to live independently, to be self-reliant, to participate fully in society. i therefore support the text of the resolution which proposes measures to ensure high quality interpretation services in sign language.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the objection and did not support it, as the active substance betazone, which acts as a selective herbicide to control leafy weeds in a wide range of crops, is widely used in agriculture after its origin. as such, it is important for efficient farming and relieves the farmer of many problems and provides him with a higher yield. however, in the light of current scientific and technical knowledge, certain conditions and restrictions on its use are also included to limit any possible negative effects. without a proper alternative, it is highly irresponsible for european agriculture to withdraw a substance from use too quickly and thoughtlessly. such moves are not made overnight but are carefully considered for all possible consequences for the various stakeholders.
in writing. ‒ the active substance bentazone acts as a selective herbicide to control leafy weeds in a wide range of crops after germination and is widely used in agriculture. its properties make it easy to penetrate groundwater. therefore, benthazone is present in both groundwater and surface water in most member states. the use of this substance is authorised in the eu until the end of june 2017. however, the european commission is now proposing to extend the use of bentazone until 31 january 2032, the longest possible period, based on an assessment carried out by the european food safety authority. i believe that the european food safety authority should consult experts on the toxicological effects of benzone on mammals and on its impact on the environment. in addition, it is essential to provide data confirming the non-endocrine disrupting nature of the substance concerned, as various studies have identified a concern for prenatal developmental toxicity in rats. it is my view that a commission decision to approve benzazone would allow that active substance to be placed on the market before the commission has obtained all the necessary data to support that decision. in the absence of data on actual adverse effects on the environment and human health for bentazone, i voted to accept the objection to the renewal of the approval of this substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the draft commission implementing regulation renewing the approval of the active substance benthazone in accordance with the regulation of the european parliament and of the council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market and amending the annex to the commission implementing regulation. in my view, the draft commission implementing regulation does not exceed the implementing powers provided for in the regulation. i also consider that the assessment of the use of the active substance benthazone is sufficient and that no further evaluation is necessary in this respect.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the objection to the draft commission implementing regulation renewing the approval of the active substance bentazone, in accordance with regulation (ec) no 1107/2009 of the european parliament and of the council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market, and amending the annex to commission implementing regulation (eu) no 540/2011. bentazone is an active substance which acts as a selective herbicide to control broadleaf weeds in a wide range of crops after germination and is widely used in agriculture. the substance is extremely easy to penetrate into the underground. the risk assessment for consumers is also not yet known.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection pursuant to rule 106 : renewing the approval of the active substance bentazone. the active substance bentazone acts as a selective post-emergent herbicide against broadleaved weeds in a broad range of crops and is commonly used in agriculture. however, the active substance bentazone has a high potential for direct leaching to groundwater due to its inherent properties. the objection considers that the draft commission implementing regulation exceeds the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1107/2009. it underlines that the assessment on the representative uses of the active substance bentazone to be insufficient to conclude that, for at least one of the representative uses, a plant protection product containing the active substance bentazone may be expected not to have any harmful effect on human or animal health or on groundwater or any unacceptable influence on the environment. i voted in favour because i believe that, by applying the confirmatory data procedure for the approval of the active substance bentazone, the commission breached the provisions of regulation (ec) no 1107/2009 and infringed the precautionary principle.
it's 2016, and we're living in a time of extraordinary development. our human rights seem to be well protected. but with the rise of xenophobia and nationalism, we can see another rise of sexism. all of a sudden, we have to talk about women's rights again, rights that we codified decades ago, like women's freedom to choose their own bodies. this has happened in slovenia, even though this right is protected by the constitution. this is a trend that is extremely worrying. it must be identified and stopped. the union can only succeed if we defend the rights of all its citizens - and women are half of it after all. violence against women and domestic violence is the number one threat to women's well-being. it endangers us both physically and mentally, contributes to gender inequality, and leaves behind long-term consequences. the statistics show that we're not doing enough. it has been reported that one in three women over the age of 15 has been a victim of violence. it could have been me, it could have been you. we must stop these grave violations of women's rights. we urgently need to take a step towards more effective action to address violence against women. 28 member states have already signed the istanbul convention. only half of them have ratified the treaty, including my country, slovenia. and now we must bring this process to a close and ensure equal protection for women. i therefore support the resolution and call on the commission to introduce appropriate measures by means of a directive.
so jordan found itself practically in the vicinity of the war zones in a very unstable area, and yet it opened its doors wide to a large number of refugees, who represent as much as a quarter of its total population. of course, this is a heavy burden for anyone, even for a country of some five million people. and of course, it also has a huge impact on financial stability, on economic potential, on tourism, and all of the things that once made jordan so noble as a country, of course, a thousand wonders. and it is therefore right that this macro-financial framework should also be dedicated to this country. but i would certainly try to make sure that this is not a one-off 200 million aid, but that this is a project that will continue in the future, because let's not forget, jordan has taken on a big piece of the refugee-acceptance pie and can thus also serve as an example for many, including european countries.
cross-border vat fraud costs member states millions of euros a year. the types of vat fraud are of course very diverse and change and adapt very quickly, including legislation. the commission must therefore be careful in its action to be so effective as to anticipate, as far as possible, all possible future forms of tax fraud and thus to limit the most well-known forms of tax whirlpools, which are widespread in the electricity, mobile telephony, textiles and goods industries, which therefore travel within the european union and generate millions and millions of tax fraud. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the taxation of energy products.
in writing. i congratulate emily oreilly for her excellent work and her continuous efforts to improve the quality of the services the eu offers its citizens. transparency must be recognised as a key element in building trust and good administration, as demonstrated by the high number of transparency complaints. the european ombudsman has a very important function, as he is empowered to receive complaints about irregularities in the activities of the union institutions, bodies, offices or agencies. any citizen of the union and any natural or legal person residing or having its registered office in a member state shall also have the right to address the european ombudsman in respect of irregularities in the activities of union institutions, bodies, offices or agencies. in 2014, the european ombudsman achieved that 90% of her decisions and/or recommendations were followed, an increase of 10 percentage points compared to 2013. i welcome and support the continuous efforts of the european ombudsman to increase transparency in the ttip negotiations by submitting proposals to the commission. i believe that international agreements such as ttip and ceta require increased transparency, as many concerned citizens are calling for. the ombudsman's work is important in improving and maintaining the trust of european citizens in the work of the eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the macro-financial assistance to jordan and i also supported the document, as it is one of the countries most affected by the syrian crisis due to its geographical location. since 2011, its economy, which is based mainly on services and industry, has been severely affected by the unrest that has rocked the region. the decline in tourism and the decline in foreign direct investment, the closure of trade routes and the continuing disruption of natural gas supplies from egypt have depressed growth in jordan and led to a deterioration in its fiscal position. the conflict in syria and iraq has deprived it of the markets on which it had previously sold its products. but it's also facing a refugee influx, so it's only right that we show some solidarity, because this is an emergency.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council providing further macro-financial assistance to the hashemite kingdom of jordan. jordan is one of the countries most affected by the syrian crisis, due to its geographical location. since 2011, its economy, which is based mainly on services and industry, has been severely affected by the unrest that has shaken the region. despite internal problems, jordan has taken in many refugees and has committed to helping syrians find easier employment. this is a matter of respect and the eu must give its full support to its partner. jordan has recently established an even closer partnership with the european union, its other trading partner. the desire is that the financial assistance be implemented immediately, as jordan is indeed in a crisis and difficult time.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council providing further macro-financial assistance to the hashemite kingdom of jordan. owing to its geographical location, jordan is one of the countries most directly affected by the syrian crisis. since 2011, its economy, based mainly on services and industry, has been significantly affected by the ongoing regional unrest. lower levels of tourism and foreign direct investment, blocked trade routes and repeated disruptions to the flow of natural gas from egypt have put a drag on jordan’s growth and weighed on its fiscal position. despite the difficult circumstances, jordan has taken in a large number of displaced persons. together with lebanon, it has welcomed more refugees in proportion to its population than any other country in the world. jordan has a young but increasingly close partnership with the european union, its second largest trading partner. i voted in favour because i believe that the eu must show support for its partner, whose policy of welcoming refugees is commendable.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council providing further macro-financial assistance to the hashemite kingdom of jordan. the jordanian economy has suffered greatly from the ongoing unrest in the region. together with the deteriorating global environment, these regional disturbances have had a highly negative impact on external revenues and have drained public finances. in addition, jordan's economy is also affected by the large influx of syrian refugees, which increases the pressure on its fiscal position, public services and infrastructure. as jordan is a country covered by the enp european neighbourhood policy, it should be considered as a beneficiary of the union's macro-financial assistance. for the reasons set out above, i support the allocation of macro-financial assistance in the form of loans of up to eur 200 million to support economic stabilisation and reform implementation.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the proposal for a directive on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision and i also supported it in the plenary, as i believe that in the internal market institutions should be able to operate in other member states while also ensuring a high level of protection for occupational pension schemes. it is necessary to provide for a minimum level of harmonisation which member states may upgrade. i welcome the move towards the internal market to provide occupational pension insurance organised on a european scale, as it is crucial for economic growth and job creation in the european union and also for tackling the challenges arising from the ageing of european society.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision (2014/0091 ((cod)). european society is ageing. pension systems need to adapt to this in order to provide secure and sustainable pensions. this is a matter for the member states to deal with. the proposal for a directive will help national institutions to improve transparency, better governance, better cross-border activity, thus strengthening the internal market. the proposal aims to facilitate the development of occupational pension schemes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision. the report notes that institutions for occupational retirement provision play an important role in the long-term financing of the union’s economy and in providing secure retirement benefits for citizens of the union. it equally underlines that member states should take into account the objective for all institutions of ensuring the intergenerational balance of occupational pension schemes, by aiming to have an equitable spread of risks and benefits between generations. i voted in favour because i believe that member states shall ensure that members are sufficiently informed of the conditions of the pension scheme, in particular concerning the risks borne by members and beneficiaries associated with the pension scheme.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision. the purpose of this directive is to achieve minimum harmonisation of occupational insurance between member states and to ensure good governance, information to members of pension schemes and transparency and security of occupational pension insurance in order to further facilitate the mobility of workers between member states. taking into account demographic trends in the union and the situation of national budgets, with social security systems under increasing pressure, occupational pension schemes are a valuable addition to pension systems under social protection.
i voted in favour of this resolution because it is clear that the situation in syria is becoming more dramatic by the day and requires our attention. this resolution contains many elements of this that we can think about. above all, i think it encourages us to have a more active role for the european union in finding a solution to this war. the european union must also make every effort to involve all the parties involved in the current conflicts and complex problems in finding solutions at all stages. i voted against some of the amendments which i believe represent a simplification of the problems which are the expression of our short-term memory, particularly as regards the causes of the crises in syria, iraq and the whole of the middle east. i think it is wrong that in our resolutions on the middle east we are trying to somehow transfer there the rhetoric of cold war intensity that we are creating in europe. at least in the third area, we must try to speak the same language and be objective. but above all, we must give the unfortunate syrians back their homeland and the prospect of living in it.
in writing. ‒ i agree that the situation in syria is unsustainable, and i support the resolution in which the ep notes that in six years of conflict, extreme violence and brutality in syria, more than 400,000 people have died and more than 13 million are in need of humanitarian assistance. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the eu-morocco association agreement, including the implementation of the eu-morocco association agreement, the implementation of the eu-morocco association agreement and the implementation of the eu-morocco association agreement. the dangers to the population remaining in the homeland are not diminishing, as the fighting and bombing in syria continue unabated and the humanitarian situation deteriorates. all parts of the country suffer from severe shortages of basic food and health care.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament resolution on syria. europe has been concerned about the situation in syria from the very beginning. the conflict is not just regional but is becoming global. europe has already felt the effects of the mass migration of syrian refugees, as well as some terrorist acts. syria is facing the largest humanitarian crisis since the end of world war ii, with as many as 13 million syrians in need of humanitarian aid. we have to realize that children and women do not have access to the basic necessities of life such as drinking water, health care, food and so on. the continuing bombardment of civilian areas (e.g. western aleppo) must be condemned and the deaths of many innocent children and women must be highlighted. condemn all violations of human rights, war crimes and crimes against humanity. all efforts must be made to cut off the flow of material and financial resources to terrorist military groups, while at the same time providing assistance to united nations troops. it is necessary to believe that the eu and its member states can play an important role in resolving the political conflict in syria.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the situation in syria. reports of extreme violence and brutality in syria and the deteriorating humanitarian situation in syria, as well as attacks on civilians and civilian objects, are of concern and require immediate action by the international community. i therefore join the call for all parties to allow unhindered and uninterrupted humanitarian access and the delivery of essential goods to the civilian population and for an immediate cessation of hostilities, which must be monitored by a strong and transparent mechanism. in this context, i call on the eu and the member states to ensure that all those who have committed violations of human rights and international humanitarian law are held accountable for their actions through appropriate impartial international criminal law mechanisms or national courts and in application of the principle of universal jurisdiction.
i regret that turkey is moving away from the democratic order that it had and that we have known for decades. nevertheless, despite the breadth of this resolution, i have stood my ground and voted for it. i condemn the authoritarian violation of fundamental human rights, the suppression of media freedom, the interference with the judiciary, the persecution of intellectuals, mps and public officials. this is to be condemned and it is right that we have clearly distanced ourselves from such actions by erdogan and his regime. but i do not think that all this justifies our thinking that the best response and the best way forward is to break off the talks and freeze the negotiations. in fact, we have never conducted these negotiations, frankly, and we have not clarified within europe what our true attitude is towards turkey as a possible member of the european union. we have left too many things open and that may be one of the reasons for the state of affairs we are in with turkey today. i continue to believe in diplomacy and in negotiation.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the eu-turkey relationship started to cool down in 2014, and the failed military coup made matters worse. the european parliament condemned the military coup and confirmed the legitimate authority in turkey, but also condemned the disproportionate repressive measures being implemented as a result. i therefore agree to freeze the accession negotiations until the disproportionate measures are lifted. it is necessary to say, bobo bobo, that the absolutist conditions now being imposed by the turkish president do not fit within the framework of the european union. what is happening in turkey is not in line with the values on which the eu is founded, and turkey must say whether it wants to participate in our society at all, otherwise we better not play blind. of course, negotiations can be resumed if the situation improves.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on eu-turkey relations. the eu strongly condemned the military coup in turkey and called for those responsible to be found and punished. but not in the repressive way that turkey is doing - a referendum on reinstating the death penalty. europe must send a clear signal that a country that wants to reinstate the death penalty cannot be part of the european union. the signal must be understood by the turks. using a military coup to violate human rights is unacceptable. thousands of civil servants have lost their jobs, media freedom is restricted, some media houses/outlets are closed, some members of the turkish parliament are in prison. this development is truly disturbing. sovereignty cannot be built on fear. we must treat turkey as a friend and a partner. turkey must change the course of events for the good of its citizens. any further negotiations on turkey's accession to the european union must be frozen.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on eu-turkey relations. turkey is an important partner of the eu and as a candidate country is expected to uphold the highest standards of democracy, including respect for human rights, the rule of law, fundamental freedoms and the general right to a fair trial. turkey is a member of the council of europe and is therefore bound by the european convention on human rights. however, since the repressive measures taken by the turkish government in the context of the emergency are disproportionate and contrary to the fundamental rights and freedoms guaranteed by the turkish constitution and to the democratic values and the principles of the rule of law on which the european union is founded, the freezing of negotiations, in accordance with paragraph 5 of the negotiating framework for accession negotiations with turkey, is an urgent and necessary measure until the turkish government ceases these violations.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support the approach to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence. violence against women is reported to be widespread in the eu, and research by the fundamental rights agency confirms this. the study reveals facts that should not be ignored, as one third of all women in europe have been victims of physical or sexual violence at least once in their adult lives, of which 20% of girls aged 18-29 have been subjected to online sexual harassment, and one in five women has been the victim of stalking, one in 20 has been raped. the study also explains that most cases of violence are not reported to the authorities, which means that the perpetrators are not punished. i therefore agree with the call to the council and the commission to speed up the negotiations on the signing and conclusion of the istanbul convention.
in writing. ‒ proposal for a european parliament resolution on the eu's accession to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women and girls to questions for oral answer b8.1805/2016 and b8-1806/2016 pursuant to rule 128 (5) i voted for the rules of procedure. gender equality is a fundamental value of the eu. the right to equal treatment and non-discrimination is a fundamental right. according to the fundamental rights agency's survey on violence against women and other surveys, general violence against women is still widespread - one third of all women in europe have been victims of physical or sexual violence at least once in their adult lives. violence against women is taken too personally, and we need to raise awareness about this issue to reduce violence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motions for a resolution further to questions for oral answer b8 1805/2016 and b8 1806/2016 pursuant to rule 128(5) of the rules of procedure on the eu accession to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women. gender equality is a core value of the eu which the eu has committed to integrating into all its activities. the resolution emphasises that the eu accession will guarantee a coherent european legal framework to prevent and combat violence against women and gender-based violence and to protect the victims of violence. i voted in favour because i believe that gender equality is essential, as a strategic objective, to achieving the overall europe 2020 objectives of growth, employment and social inclusion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the eu's accession to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women. the right to equal treatment and non-discrimination is a crucial fundamental right recognised in the treaties on european union. it is deeply rooted in european society and is indispensable for the further development of society, and must be applied in legislation, practice, case law and everyday life. the strategy calls on member states to ensure the proper implementation of the convention and adequate financial and human resources to prevent and combat violence against women and gender-based violence and to protect victims.
in writing. ‒ i approve and support the 2015 annual report submitted by the european ombudsman. i am satisfied with the excellent work and efforts to improve the quality of the services offered to citizens by european administrations. i agree that transparency is a key element in building trust in good governance. this is also reflected in the high proportion of complaints lodged in relation to transparency. the efforts of the european ombudsman to increase transparency in trade negotiations are also important. among other things, i also support its efforts to increase the transparency of the ecb, lobbyists and other important actors that have an indirect impact on the eu population.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a european parliament resolution on the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2015. the commission also found that the union industry had not benefited from the measures in force. it summarised the main problems and provided key information on the activities of the european ombudsman. the ombudsman assists individuals, businesses and associations facing irregularities in the european institutions. in 2015, the ombudsman's office assisted 17,033 citizens. just over half of the ombudsman's problems concerned the european commission. the greatest number of complaints or requests for assistance came from spain. the ombudsman's office also issued a number of reports on how to improve certain procedures and what impact these improvements would have. the european ombudsman works closely with the member states. these include national and regional ombudsmen, commissions on petitions and similar structures. the year 2015 was a turning point in this respect, as the ombudsman launched reforms of the entire system of ombudsmen (over 95 offices in 36 european countries).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2015. the resolution welcomes the continued efforts of the european ombudsman to increase transparency in the ttip negotiations through proposals to the commission. moreover, it supports the ombudsman’s efforts to make lobbying more transparent. i voted in favour because i believe that effectively tackling all sources of conflict of interest is crucial in order to achieve good administration and ensure the credibility of political and technical decision-making.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman for 2015 because i believe it presents a balanced assessment of the activities of the european ombudsman. i agree that the right of eu citizens to participate in eu policy-making is more important than ever. i therefore support the guidelines proposed by the ombudsman to improve the functioning of the european citizens' initiative in order to make it more effective. i believe that greater involvement of citizens in eu policy-making will enhance the credibility of the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the intention to adopt additional anti-fraud measures and to support the further development of the existing value added tax system, and therefore i fully support these proposals in the european parliament. this important improvement requires fundamental reforms to eliminate or at least significantly reduce the problems of vat collection in the eu. i believe that an agreement on the final vat arrangements requires a joint effort by the member states, which can lead to an agreement on a better functioning vat system. i also see the call for a clearer vision of a simpler system with fewer exceptions and in conjunction with a pragmatic approach that respects the interests of the rapidly evolving digital economy as justified.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a european parliament resolution on the efforts to achieve a definitive vat system and to combat vat fraud. the vat system was introduced in the eu in 1993 as a transitional arrangement. it was envisaged that the definitive solution would be postponed and replaced by interim solutions. vat is a consumption tax which is borne by the final consumer. it brought almost €1 trillion to the eu's coffers in 2014, making it an important and growing source of eu revenue. the poorly regulated system of vat interpretation within eu member states has led to money laundering and a grey economy. it was therefore all the more important to find a solution as soon as possible to the vat valuation between eu member states. the current system is prone to fraud and needs to be remedied. it is necessary to specify within which member states set the vat rates (more freedom, less litigation). reliable and high-quality impact assessments need to be carried out in cooperation with researchers and tax administrations and eu companies in order to reduce bureaucratic problems. a permanent tax system could be created by extending the system of general reverse charge to all intra-eu transactions. this would make the vat refund and invoicing redundant, reducing the possibility of fraud.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report ‘towards a definitive vat system and fighting vat fraud’. vat is a major and growing source of revenue in the member states and contributes to eu own resources, the eu’s total revenue from the vat own resource standing at eur 17 667 million and accounting for 12.27% of the total revenue of the eu in 2014. however, member states differ in the effectiveness with which they are able to address vat fraud and vat avoidance, since the vat gap is estimated to vary from less than 5% to over 40% depending on the country considered. the report emphasises that it is the responsibility of the tax authorities in the individual member states to ensure that vat is paid in a proper and simple way. it equally notes that the lack of comparable data and of adequate relevant indicators to measure member states’ performance affects the effectiveness of the eu system in tackling intra-eu vat fraud. i voted in favour because i believe that national tax administrations must take greater responsibility for ensuring tax compliance and reducing opportunities for evasion in the general implementation of the country-of-destination principle.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the road to a definitive vat system and the fight against vat fraud. the report is a response to the commission's communication of 7 april 2016 and its intention to adopt additional anti-fraud measures and to support the further development of the existing value added tax system. the commission intends to prepare a legislative proposal in the action plan to finalise the vat system based on the principle of taxation in the country of destination of goods and services. this marks a decisive shift away from the originally envisaged principle of taxation in the country of origin, which proved unworkable due to numerous instances of distortion of competition. as i believe that the commission's action plan will contribute to promoting fair taxation, sustainable consumption, employment, growth, investment and competitiveness, while limiting the scope for vat fraud, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the eu action plan to combat illegal wildlife trafficking, as it is a form of international organised crime that has been on the rise in recent years. organised crime has become one of the largest and most profitable forms of organised cross-border crime. the need for concerted action to address the causes of this trade is clear. however, in order to ensure the effective implementation and enforcement of the applicable rules and to enhance cooperation at global level between countries of origin, transit and destination, it is necessary to organise adequate financial and human resources.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the eu action plan to combat illegal wildlife trade. on world wildlife day 2015, un secretary-general ban ki-moon said it was time to start taking wildlife crime seriously. the wildlife industry has become a multibillion-dollar criminal enterprise. efforts are needed to contain this. the european union is one of the main actors in solving this problem, as it is one of the targets of trade as well as a transit route. not only that, but europe itself is the point of origin of this illegal trade. it is therefore necessary to prevent illegal trade and to find its causes. it is necessary to effectively implement and enforce the existing rules to combat organised wildlife crime. we also need to strengthen the global partnership to make prevention easier.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu action plan against wildlife trafficking. wildlife trafficking is an organised international crime which is estimated to be worth approximately eur 20 billion annually and which has increased worldwide in recent years, becoming one of the biggest and most profitable forms of organised cross-border crime. the report welcomes the commission’s action plan against wildlife trafficking, which highlights the need for coordinated actions to address the causes of wildlife trafficking. it calls for a targeted and coordinated series of awareness-raising campaigns by the eu, third countries, stakeholders and civil society with the aim of reducing demand related to the illegal trade in wildlife products. i voted in favour because i strongly believe that that wildlife protection must be a key element in the eu’s global poverty reduction strategies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu action plan to combat illegal wildlife trade. the illegal wildlife trade is a form of international organised crime estimated to be worth around eur 20 billion per year and has been growing worldwide in recent years to become one of the largest and most profitable forms of organised cross-border crime. as the illegal wildlife trade has a very negative impact on biodiversity, existing ecosystems, the natural heritage of origin countries, natural resources and species conservation, i support the allocation of the appropriate financial and human resources needed to effectively launch the action plan to combat illicit wildlife trade.
in writing. ‒ i agree that new opportunities need to be created for small transport enterprises and i supported the report, as they face major challenges in responding to the growing need for mobility with limited infrastructure and increasing environmental demands. they are also hampered by current legal uncertainty, unequal competitive conditions and difficult access to develop and offer new services. therefore, the new opportunities offered by small transport enterprises and new collaborative and business models should be supported. the obstacles caused by the uneven application of eu rules between member states must be removed to ensure greater competitiveness and a level playing field.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on new opportunities for small transport companies, including cooperative business models. the lack of relevant statistical data makes it difficult to get a realistic picture of small transport companies in europe. the term 'transport undertakings' in this context means undertakings engaged in the transport of goods and people. it is difficult to define the exact profile of the transport companies, but they all play an important role in providing mobility, we could say that they are a key element of european mobility. the technology needs of the transport sector are large and provide a fertile ground for the digital economy. for small transport companies, it will be a challenge to exploit this passage. small companies need to solve some problems that large transport companies do not have, because they are financially stable enough. the implementation of the law also frequently involves economic and social distortions suffered by smaller enterprises. it is therefore necessary to accelerate efforts to complete the single european transport area in order to eliminate disparities in the implementation of legislation and to ensure better coordination between small enterprises.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on new opportunities for small transport businesses, including collaborative business models. small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are the main engine of the european economy, representing, on 2014 figures, 99.8% of all undertakings outside the financial sector and accounting for two out of three of all jobs. the report calls on the member states to put an end to over-regulation, which is often linked to protectionist and corporatist instincts that give rise to fragmentation, complexity and rigidity within the internal market, thus increasing inequality. it welcomes the new opportunities afforded by small transport businesses and new collaborative business models. i voted in favour because i believe that collaborative business models constitute a major resource for the sustainable development of connections in outlying, mountainous and rural regions, and offer indirect benefits for the tourism sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on new opportunities for small transport companies, including cooperative business models. transport companies face major challenges in responding to the growing demand for mobility in the face of limited infrastructure and increasing environmental demands. all transport companies must provide safe, sustainable and highly competitive solutions that are environmentally friendly while reducing congestion. it is particularly the small businesses, the main drivers of the european economy, that face the greatest difficulties and costs in meeting these expectations. i therefore believe that all legislation setting new requirements for small enterprises, in particular measures in the tax, social and environmental fields, must be proportionate, simple and clear, must not hamper their development and must reflect, where appropriate, the regional and national characteristics of the different member states.
in writing. ‒ i support the resolution on the situation in belarus as i am fairly well informed about the situation in that country and remain concerned about the shortcomings identified by independent international observers during the 2015 presidential elections and the 2016 parliamentary elections. there are also attempts to improve the situation, but unfortunately they are not enough. i am concerned to learn that the newly elected parliament will have only one representative of the opposition party and one representative of the non-governmental sector. i find it hard to believe that this is a reflection of the actual state of affairs in the elections, and i welcome the eu's calls for belarus to pursue without delay a comprehensive reform of the electoral system as part of the wider democratic process.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the situation in belarus. belarus is still ruled by the so-called last dictator of europe, alexander lukashenko. as of 2015, he has won five presidential elections and has been in power since 1994. belarus has taken a major step in its desire to move closer to the west by following some recommendations by the osce/odihr (office for democratic institutions and human rights) and the council of europe's venice commission (advisory body on constitutional issues) for the 2016 parliamentary elections. they assessed that the elections were conducted efficiently, but that systemic flaws and restrictions on political freedoms still persisted. this is the first free election in belarus since 1994. for the first time since this year, the democratic opposition will be represented in parliament. belarus played a constructive role in the ceasefire in ukraine, possibly also due to fear of russia. there is certainly a need to strengthen cooperation between the eu and belarus. but belarus must continue electoral reform as part of a broader process of democratisation and remove mechanisms that curtail democratic principles, human rights and fundamental freedoms. the rehabilitation of political prisoners and the restoration of civil and political rights would be needed. the eu should continue its policy of critical engagement with belarus.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on situation in belarus. since 1994 no free and fair elections have been conducted in belarus. its attempts to make progress during 2015 presidential and 2016 parliamentary elections were insufficient. key sectors of the belarusian economy are still under state control, no new political party has been registered since 2000 and new ways to harass or even jail the opposition are being found. moreover, belarus is the only country in europe still applying capital punishment. the resolution calls on belarus to stop these developments and reiterates the european parliament’s commitment to support the pro-democratic aspirations of its people. i voted in favour because i believe that belarus should join a global moratorium on execution of the death penalty as a first step towards permanent abolition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the situation in belarus. i agree with the eu's call to maintain momentum for further normalisation of relations with belarus. i believe that the eu's engagement in dialogue with belarus, its citizens and civil society, as well as with the parliament and the various political parties, will bring tangible results. close diplomatic relations can contribute to a more consistent respect for the rule of law, respect for human rights and the well-being of the state.
thank you to both rapporteurs, to all those involved in the conciliation process, for having an ambitious budget for the european union for 2017. thanks to the european parliament, it has more funds for strategic items, for employment, for small and medium-sized enterprises, for transport infrastructure, for research, for innovation, for erasmus and for our security. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the european union solidarity fund is more than just financial support; it is also a political message of solidarity, offering the necessary help to the citizens affected. rapid response, including through advance payments, will help the union to achieve these objectives. i wish commissioner georgieva every success in her career. it was an honor to work with her.
the author. the word solidarity plays a very important role in this report. and all these recent earthquakes that have hit central italy, from august to the end of october, show, of course, that mother nature is completely unpredictable and that is why this solidarity fund, established back in 2002, is so important. it is also important that this financial support for resolution and mitigation is delivered in a timely manner to the right addresses. of course, there are often administrative barriers in this area, which are supposed to prevent abuse, corruption and, of course, things that are sometimes exploited for bad purposes. and so i think that the commission could also take a step forward in this area and also draw up some kind of 'guidelines' and 'directions' for the member states to make recommendations on how to make the most efficient use of this aid and, of course, how to ensure that it is distributed. on the one hand, those from the solidarity fund and, on the other, of course, those within the member states. but i would also like to focus on another problem here, and that is that we sometimes forget about those who risk their lives to save people and property in the face of natural disasters, earthquakes, floods. i'm also talking about the firefighters, the civil defence and those volunteers who are there to protect - as i said - people and, of course, property. and i think that the commission should pay some attention to this in the future. this is particularly true given that many volunteers in employment are not adequately compensated by their employers for their absence, even though it is a matter of self-sacrifice and solidarity. and i think that's an additional challenge that we need to be particularly mindful of, and of course thank you to all of those who have sacrificed in this aid.
in writing. i regret that italy has been struck by three major earthquakes this year. the last one, in october of this year, left a big impact. the number of injured was enormous, and the death toll was 290. the damage was enormous. i take this opportunity to express my deepest and most sincere condolences to our neighbors. what happened in italy can happen to any of us, and i think it is essential that we, as the european union, stand together in this situation and help italy, which needs our help. i believe that the commission should take measures as soon as possible to deal with requests for assistance to the affected areas under the european union solidarity fund. this would allow the reconstruction of buildings in the affected areas in the shortest possible time and thus also to speed up the recovery of the earthquake. it is also essential that the competent authorities at all levels simplify administrative procedures to make access to funds as simple and quick as possible, as they are essential for the people living in the affected areas.
on behalf of the s&d group. europe is facing a rise in racism, xenophobia, homophobia, transphobia and other forms of intolerance. it shocks me that according to transgender europe, nearly 300 trans people were murdered around the world in the past year alone. and brexit and the us elections have further fuelled various forms of hate speech and intolerance. these and other forms of hatred are strong poisons to dialogue and cooperation between people, are often the product of different ideologies and histories, and often strike the most vulnerable groups hardest. in my country slovenia , we are also facing a growing intolerance. i regret that individuals are using the plight of the people to inflate intolerance and spread falsehoods. attacks on refugees, religious sites or institutions promoting intercultural dialogue are truly reprehensible acts which i condemn in the strongest terms. we need to address prejudice and fear through education and upbringing and through effective legislative measures and policies. in practice, some member states still implement the framework decisions insufficiently and fail to provide adequate protection against racist and xenophobic hate speech and hate crimes. there will come a time when history will judge us by our actions. we all have to ask ourselves what side of history we want to be on and what we've done to get there.
in writing. the fight against racism and xenophobia is a challenge that requires a broader response, as both have unfortunately been on the rise in recent times. i welcome the announcement by commissioner jourova of the establishment of a high-level working group to combat racism, xenophobia and other forms of intolerance. nevertheless, it is still a worrying fact that racism and xenophobia are on the rise, often accompanied by homophobia, sexism and other forms of hatred and intolerance. unfortunately, political parties are increasingly turning to racism and xenophobia and deliberately shielding themselves against asylum seekers and immigrants, including eu citizens from other member states. the eu must therefore clearly and loudly condemn all forms of intolerance, racism and racial and other discrimination. the charter of fundamental rights of the union, based on the principle that all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights, expressly prohibits any discrimination. a society that ignores, encourages or practices discrimination based on racial or other differences is dysfunctional and fraught with risks. i believe that member states must be particularly careful to avoid racial discrimination in the treatment of foreign nationals when entering and leaving national territory, as they set an example for their own nationals, which must be positive and not negative.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal to amend regulation no 952/2013, as some shortcomings have been identified in the existing regime. this change will now allow customs to more easily and correctly calculate import and other duties, apply non-fiscal measures such as sanitary controls and identify risks for goods arriving at their ports or airports. the current proposal to amend article 136 will fill this gap, thus ensuring equal treatment for goods and restoring the legal basis that already existed under the old customs code.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal aims to amend article 136 of the union customs code in order to ensure the effective application of other provisions of the union customs code, in particular in the area of customs supervision. article 136 states, inter alia, that certain provisions, such as the obligation to present goods to customs upon unloading, do not apply to non-union goods temporarily leaving the customs territory of the union while moving by sea or air between two places in the customs territory of the union. in its proposal, the commission notes that the non-application of these provisions could jeopardise the effective customs control of non-union goods, as there is no clear legal basis in the current text of article 136 requiring the presentation of these goods to customs authorities. they may therefore have control problems, as this deprives them of the possibility to fully and correctly account for import and other duties or to identify risks. in its proposal, the commission seeks to ensure the correct application of other provisions of the union customs code by, inter alia, specifying precisely those provisions which do not apply when non-union goods re-enter the customs territory of the union and those provisions which do not apply to union goods which have retained their status despite having temporarily left the customs territory of the union. the parliament's report welcomes the commission's conclusions and proposals, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the regulation establishing the union customs code as regards goods temporarily leaving the customs territory of the union by sea or air. the amendment to the regulation will clarify the legal dilemmas regarding the presentation of goods to customs authorities, which leads to the incorrect calculation of various duties, the incorrect application of non-fiscal measures such as sanitary controls, and the risks for goods arriving at their ports or airports. the amendment of the regulation will thus ensure equal treatment for goods.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 952/2013 laying down the union customs code as regards goods temporarily leaving the customs territory of the union by sea or air. the competent authorities in the member states do not currently have a legal basis for applying the provisions relating to the lodging of an entry summary declaration, the notification of arrival of a sea or air vessel, the transport of goods to customs and their presentation to customs on unloading or transhipment, the waiting for authorisation before unloading or transhipment of goods and the provisions on temporary storage. the absence of a proper legal basis makes customs controls difficult and therefore prevents them from correctly accounting for import duties and other charges, from properly applying non-fiscal measures such as sanitary controls and from identifying risks for goods arriving at their ports or airports. the current proposal will change that.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 952/2013 laying down the union customs code, as regards goods that have temporarily left the customs territory of the union by sea or air. the relevant authorities in the member states do not have a legal basis, under the current article 136, on which to apply provisions related to lodging the entry summary declaration, notifying the arrival of a sea-going vessel or an aircraft, conveying and presenting the goods to customs upon unloading or transhipment, waiting for authorisation before unloading or transhipping the goods, as well as for the provisions on temporary storage. in the absence of a clear legal basis on which to require presentation of these goods to the customs authorities, they see their effective customs supervision duties hampered. i voted in favour because i believe that the current proposal to amend article 136 will close this gap and thereby ensure equal treatment of goods, providing again the legal basis that was already established through the old customs code.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 952/2013 establishing the union customs code as regards goods temporarily leaving the customs territory of the union by sea or air. the proposed regulation will provide a legal basis for the exercise of certain customs control tasks on goods temporarily leaving the customs territory of the union while moving by sea or air between two places in that territory, directly and without a stop outside the union. this will allow for effective customs controls on the goods concerned, the correct accounting of import duties and other charges and the proper implementation of non-fiscal measures such as veterinary and phytosanitary controls.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the postponement of the application of the regulation in question, as these 12 months will give the entities concerned additional time to prepare and comply with the new requirements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on key information documents on retail package investment products and insurance-based investment products, as regards its date of application. following the financial and economic crisis that hit europe years ago, the european commission proposed, among other things, in 2014 a regulation to increase investor protection and restore consumer confidence in the financial services sector. the european parliament objected to the delegated regulation months ago, so today's report will provide that the regulation will enter into force on 1 january 2018.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 of the european parliament and of the council on key information documents on retail package investment products and insurance-based investment products, as regards its date of application. the regulation introduced a series of measures aimed at increasing investor protection and restoring consumer confidence in the financial services sector by increasing market transparency for retail investors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 of the european parliament and of the council on key information documents for packaged retail and insurance-based investment products as regards the date of its application. the regulation introduced a series of measures aimed at enhancing investor protection and rebuilding consumer trust in the financial services industry by increasing transparency in the retail investment market. it requires manufacturers of packaged retail and insurance-based investment products to produce a key information document. a deferral of twelve months will give additional time for those concerned to adhere to the new requirements. in the light of the exceptional circumstances, i believe that it is appropriate and justified for regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 to be amended accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 of the european parliament and of the council on key information documents on retail and insurance-based investment products, as regards its date of application. i support the postponement of the application of regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 for 12 months as it will provide the entities concerned with additional time to comply with the new requirements laid down in regulation (eu) no 1286/2014, which will allow the efficient and proper functioning of that regulation. regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 of the european parliament and of the council introduces a series of measures aimed at enhancing investor protection and restoring consumer confidence in the financial services sector by increasing market transparency for retail investors. for that purpose, it requires manufacturers of retail and insurance-based investment products to prepare a key information document.
in writing. ‒ i agree to the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the eu and kiribati. this is an act of major political importance under the cotonou agreement, resulting from the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of kiribati, and is also a means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and deepening political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the eu has also been active in the field of human rights, including the fight against terrorism, and has been active in the field of human rights in the region.
in writing. ‒ the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part, or the so-called cotonou agreement, governs relations between the eu and the republic of kiribati, while the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver further strengthens these relations and further strengthens economic and cultural links and deepens political dialogue, particularly in the areas of human rights and fundamental freedoms. according to the agreement, the republic of kiribati is one of the countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement when crossing the external borders of the member states. all citizens of the republic of kiribati, irrespective of the purpose of the trip, except for paid employment, may travel without a visa to the territory of the contracting state for a maximum of 92 days in any 180-day period. the parliament's recommendation notes that such an agreement can have a positive impact on bringing european and pacific nations closer together, by, inter alia, simplifying travel conditions for entrepreneurs and encouraging investment and tourism. in addition, the republic of kiribati has made progress in the area of human rights (e.g. adoption of an action plan to eliminate sexual violence) and this agreement allows for further in-depth political dialogue on these issues, which is why i supported the recommendation in the vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of kiribati on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement signed between the european union and the republic of kiribati will allow citizens of both signatories to travel without visas for up to 90 days, but without the possibility of engaging in paid employment. the agreement will deepen relations between the eu and the republic of kiribati, both economically and culturally and politically.
in writing. ‒ i supported, on behalf of the european union, the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of kiribati on the short-stay visa waiver. the relations between the european union and the republic of kiribati are governed by the cotonou agreement. a bilateral agreement was signed in 2016 between the european union and the republic of kiribati allowing citizens of the european union and citizens of the republic of kiribati to travel without a visa to the territory of the other party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver agreement will be able to bring about positive effects by simplifying travel conditions for entrepreneurs, and by stimulating investment and tourism. visa waiver is an important means of bringing european and pacific nations closer together.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of kiribati on the short-stay visa waiver. relations between the european union and the republic of kiribati are governed by the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states of the one part and the european union and its member states of the other part, known as the cotonou agreement. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and citizens of the republic of kiribati when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for any purpose other than carrying out a paid activity. i voted in favour because i believe that the agreement represents a culmination of the development of relations between the european union and the republic of kiribati that is politically highly significant in the context of the cotonou agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of kiribati on the short-stay visa waiver. i support the approval of the conclusion of the agreement as it will strengthen economic and cultural relations and deepen political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. visa waiver is an important means of bringing european and pacific nations closer together.
in writing. ‒ for the same reasons as before, i agree to the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the eu and solomon islands. this is an act of great political significance under the cotonou agreement, resulting from the deepening of relations between the european union and the solomon islands, and is also a means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and deepening political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the eu has also been active in the field of human rights, including the fight against terrorism, and has been active in the field of human rights in the region.
in writing. ‒ the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part, or the so-called cotonou agreement, governs relations between the eu and the solomon islands, while the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver further strengthens these relations and further strengthens economic and cultural links and deepens political dialogue, particularly in the areas of human rights and fundamental freedoms. according to the agreement, the solomon islands are among the countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement when crossing the external borders of the member states. all nationals of the solomon islands, irrespective of the purpose of the trip, except for paid employment, may travel without a visa to the territory of the contracting state for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. the parliament's recommendation notes that such an agreement can play a major role in establishing a strengthened and more frequent dialogue focused on the protection of the vulnerable local environment, in particular in relation to climate change, and on the protection of human rights and gender equality, which is why i voted in favour of it. in addition, the agreement simplifies travel conditions for entrepreneurs and encourages investment and tourism, which is particularly important in this case, since development cooperation is based on sustainable rural development and the development of human resources.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the solomon islands on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement signed between the european union and the solomon islands will allow citizens of both signatories to travel without visas for up to 90 days, but without the possibility of engaging in paid work. the agreement concluded will have a number of positive effects, including facilitating travel for entrepreneurs, increasing investment and boosting tourism. for all these reasons, i support the agreement in question.
in writing. ‒ i supported, on behalf of the union, the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and solomon islands on the short-stay visa waiver. the relations between the european union and the solomon islands are governed by the cotonou agreement. the european union and solomon islands signed a bilateral agreement in 2016 allowing citizens of the european union and solomon islands to travel without a visa to the territory of the other party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the agreement also serves as an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and deepening political dialogues on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the agreement will have a positive impact on entrepreneurship, agriculture and tourism, and on the other hand strengthen relations between the european union and the solomon islands.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the agreement between the european union and the solomon islands on the short-stay visa waiver. relations between the european union and the solomon islands are governed by the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states of the one part and the european union and its member states of the other part, known as the cotonou agreement. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and citizens of the solomon islands when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for any purpose other than carrying out a paid activity. i voted in favour because i believe that this agreement represents a concrete outcome for the relations developing between the european union and the solomon islands that is highly significant politically in the context of the cotonou agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the solomon islands on the short-stay visa waiver, on behalf of the union i support the approval of the conclusion of the agreement because i believe it will have positive effects, as it simplifies travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitates investment and promotes tourism. the european union's trade relations with the solomon islands are currently very limited but have the potential to develop.
in writing. ‒ for the same reasons as before, i agree to the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the eu and micronesia. this is an act of major political importance under the cotonou agreement, resulting from the deepening of relations between the european union and micronesia, and is also a means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and deepening political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. such a visa waiver agreement will also have positive effects, simplifying travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitating investment and promoting tourism.
in writing. ‒ the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, on the one hand, and the european union and its member states, on the other, or the so-called cotonou agreement, governs relations between the eu and micronesia, while the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver further deepens these relations and further strengthens the links between the signatories to the agreement. according to the agreement, micronesia is among the countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement when crossing the external borders of the member states. all nationals of micronesia, regardless of the purpose of the trip, except for paid employment, may travel without a visa to the territory of the state party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. micronesia's economy is based primarily on tourism-related services. the agreement should, however, further strengthen tourism and stimulate trade. in addition, the conditions for business travel should be simplified and economic links between companies strengthened. as the recommendation emphasises that, in the context of development cooperation, the agreement can also be an additional instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and deepening political dialogue in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the agreement between the european union and the federated states of micronesia on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement signed between the european union and the federated states of micronesia will allow citizens of both signatories to travel without visas for up to 90 days, but without the possibility of engaging in paid work. although trade relations already exist between the eu and the states of micronesia, these alone have great potential and still have much room for improvement. the agreement will certainly bring progress in relations between the two signatories.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the agreement between the european union and the federated states of micronesia on the short-stay visa waiver. the relations between the european union and the federated states of micronesia are governed by the cotonou agreement. a bilateral agreement was signed in 2016 between the european union and the federated states of micronesia allowing citizens of the european union and citizens of the federated states of micronesia to travel without a visa to the territory of the other party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the european union is currently negotiating a comprehensive economic partnership agreement with 14 pacific states, including the federated states of micronesia, so that the agreement could facilitate the negotiations. the agreement will strengthen economic and cultural relations. business travel will increase, investment will accelerate, economic links will be strengthened, tourism and trade will be boosted.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the agreement between the european union and the federated states of micronesia on the short-stay visa waiver. relations between the eu and the federated states of micronesia are governed by the partnership agreement between members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states of the one part and the european union and its member states of the other part, known as the cotonou agreement. this provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of the federated states of micronesia when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. this agreement represents a concrete outcome on the deepening relations between the eu and the federated states of micronesia that is politically highly significant in the context of the cotonou agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the approval of the european parliament legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the agreement between the european union and the federated states of micronesia on the short-stay visa waiver. the signed agreement allows citizens of the european union and citizens of the federated states of micronesia to travel without a visa to the territory of the other party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (holders of a conventional, diplomatic, service/official or special passport) travelling for any purpose other than paid employment. i believe that visa liberalisation will simplify conditions for business travel, accelerate investment and strengthen economic links between businesses.
in writing. ‒ for the same reasons as before, i agree to the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the eu and tuvalu. this is an act of great political significance under the cotonou agreement, resulting from the deepening of relations between the european union and tuvalu, and is also a means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and deepening political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. such a visa waiver agreement will also have positive effects, simplifying travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitating investment and promoting tourism.
in writing. ‒ the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part, or the so-called cotonou agreement, governs relations between the eu and tuvalu, while the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver further strengthens these relations and further strengthens economic and cultural links and deepens political dialogue, particularly in the areas of human rights and fundamental freedoms. under the agreement, tuvalu is among the countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement when crossing the external borders of the member states. all nationals of tuvalu, irrespective of the purpose of the trip, except for paid employment, may travel without a visa to the territory of the state party for a maximum of 92 days in any 180-day period. while tuvalu is one of the poorest countries in the pacific region and among the most exposed to the effects of climate change, there are significant economic differences between its islands. it is therefore highly dependent on international development cooperation, which this agreement can further deepen and strengthen. the parliament's recommendation welcomes this agreement and i myself voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the agreement between the european union and tuvalu on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement signed between the european union and tuvalu will allow citizens of both signatories to travel without visas for up to 90 days, but without the possibility of engaging in paid work. the visa waiver agreement will further strengthen eu-tuvalu relations and improve the negotiating position in the negotiations on a comprehensive economic partnership agreement with 14 pacific countries, including tuvalu.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the agreement between the european union and tuvalu on the short-stay visa waiver. the cotonou agreement governs relations between the european union and tuvalu. the european union and tuvalu signed a bilateral agreement in 2016 allowing european union citizens and tuvaluan citizens to travel without a visa to the territory of the other party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the european union is currently negotiating a comprehensive economic partnership agreement with 14 pacific countries, including tuvalu, so that the agreement could facilitate the negotiations. business travel will increase, investment will accelerate, economic links will be strengthened, tourism and trade will be boosted. tuvalu's economy is based mainly on services (more than 60% of gdp), including internet-related services, where the sale of licences to use the .tv domain name represents an important source of revenue for the state. agriculture and fisheries contribute more than 20% of gdp.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and tuvalu on the short-stay visa waiver. relations between the european union and the federated states of micronesia are governed by the partnership agreement between members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states of the one part and the european union and its member states of the other part, known as the cotonou agreement. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of tuvalu when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. i voted in favour because i believe that this agreement on the waiver of short-stay visas represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and tuvalu which is politically highly significant in the context of the cotonou agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of approving the agreement between the european union and tuvalu on the short-stay visa waiver. the signed agreement allows citizens of the european union and tuvalu to travel without a visa to the territory of the other party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. tuvalu's economy is predominantly service-based, with agriculture and fisheries contributing more than 20% of gdp, and the granting of fishing licences is also an important source of revenue for the state. the eu is currently negotiating a global economic partnership agreement with 14 pacific nations, including tuvalu. i believe that the visa waiver agreement will have positive effects, as it will simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs and stimulate investment and tourism development.
in writing. ‒ for the same reasons as before, i agree to the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the eu and the marshall islands. this is an act of great political significance under the cotonou agreement, resulting from the deepening of relations between the european union and the marshall islands, and is also a means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and deepening political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. such a visa waiver agreement will also have positive effects, simplifying travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitating investment and promoting tourism.
in writing. ‒ the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part, or the so-called cotonou agreement, governs relations between the eu and the marshall islands, while the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver further strengthens these relations and further strengthens economic and cultural links and deepens political dialogue, particularly in the areas of human rights and fundamental freedoms. the marshall islands are among the countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement when crossing the external borders of the member states, in accordance with the agreement. all nationals of the marshall islands, irrespective of the purpose of the trip, except for paid employment, may travel without a visa to the territory of the contracting state for a maximum of 92 days in any 180-day period. the parliament's recommendation notes that this agreement confirms the european union's commitment to strengthening the partnership with the marshall islands, and also allows citizens to enjoy the full benefits of the acp-eu partnership and reduce the financial costs of travel. the rapporteur welcomes the agreement on visa liberalisation as a major step forward in the establishment of an enhanced and more regular political dialogue, and i therefore supported her recommendation in the vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of the marshall islands on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement signed between the european union and the republic of the marshall islands will allow citizens of both signatories to travel without visas for up to 90 days, but without the possibility of engaging in paid work. i support the agreement as it will bring about a strengthening of economic and cultural relations and a deepening of political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of the marshall islands on the short-stay visa waiver. relations between the european union and the marshall islands are governed by the cotonou agreement. a bilateral agreement was signed between the european union and the marshall islands in 2016 allowing citizens of the european union and citizens of the marshall islands to travel without a visa to the territory of the other party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the european union is currently negotiating a comprehensive economic partnership agreement with 14 pacific countries, including the marshall islands, so that the agreement could facilitate the negotiations. business travel will increase, investment will accelerate, economic links will be strengthened, tourism and trade will be boosted. the marshall islands' economy is mainly based on the services sector, but to some extent also on fishing and agriculture. the country has few natural resources, and its imports far outstrip its exports.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the agreement between the eu and the republic of the marshall islands on the short-stay visa waiver. relations between the european union and the republic of the marshall islands are governed by the partnership agreement between members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states of the one part and the european union and its member states of the other part, known as the cotonou agreement. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the eu and of the marshall islands when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. i voted in favour because this agreement on the waiver of short-stay visas simultaneously represents a concrete outcome of the deepening of relations between the eu and the republic of marshall islands – which is politically highly significant in the context of the cotonou agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of approving the agreement between the european union and the republic of the marshall islands on the short-stay visa waiver. the short-stay visa liberalisation applies to all categories of persons (holders of a conventional, diplomatic, service/official or special passport) travelling for any purpose other than paid employment. i believe that simplified travel conditions will strengthen economic and cultural relations between the european union and the republic of the marshall islands, and will stimulate investment and tourism. the republic of the marshall islands is a politically stable presidential democracy and poses no threat, either in terms of illegal migration or in terms of security and public order.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the report on the european union solidarity fund, as it is an important source of funding for local and regional governments and mitigates the effects of natural disasters across europe. it can be used in a range of natural disasters, from floods to earthquakes and forest fires, to show european solidarity with the affected areas. it should also be stressed that investments in natural disaster prevention are of paramount importance in responding to climate change.
in writing. ‒ following the tragic floods of 2002, the eu set up an instrument to provide immediate financial assistance to countries affected by severe natural disasters. all member states and candidate countries may apply for assistance from the fund if their combined losses exceed eur 3 billion or 0,6% of gross national income. in this evaluation of the solidarity fund, the rapporteur stresses that it is not possible to anticipate all emergencies, but it is possible to improve the management of their consequences. to this end, the rapporteur addresses in his own-initiative report several aspects of the management of the fund, in particular its response time and the need for preventive measures, which is strongly linked to the need to coordinate the solidarity fund with other financial instruments. as the report strongly emphasises the crucial importance of rapid response by member states, which must deal with applications as soon as possible so that victims of accidents do not feel left behind in the time between the accident and the acquisition of funds, i voted in favour of it. it is also important to me that the rapporteur emphasises the positive effects of preventive measures, which must be a mandatory part of the post-disaster phase, and reminds member states to submit their risk prevention and management strategies in advance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european union solidarity fund: an assessment. over the years, it has often been shown that the european union solidarity fund is needed when natural disasters occur in the member states and that the priority is to help people in need as quickly as possible. but there's still a lot of room for improvement. the main consideration is to increase the flexibility with which we can respond more quickly and efficiently to disasters. however, from the point of view of budgetary control and the transparent management of taxpayers' money, we can be satisfied that significant improvements have been made in recent years towards better financial management.
in writing. ‒ proposal for a european parliament resolution on the european union solidarity fund: i voted in favour of the evaluation. following the tragic accidents of 2002, the european union established the european union solidarity fund (for the member states as well as the candidate countries). member states may apply for assistance from the fund if the total damage caused directly by a natural disaster exceeds eur 3 billion or 0,6% of gni (provisions also exist for minor disasters). natural disasters are difficult to prevent, so how quickly and how we respond after a disaster is important. emergency situations call for emergency procedures. the commission notes that the aid is granted to the beneficiaries of the measure, which are the beneficiaries of the measure, and that the aid is granted to the beneficiaries of the measure. disaster management and recovery are something we can influence, and the european union solidarity fund is one of the important levers of aid.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european union solidarity fund: an assessment. following the tragic flooding of 2002, the european union introduced the european union solidarity fund. it was an immediate demonstration of the union’s solidarity with countries affected by major natural disasters. due to their unpredictable nature, natural disasters not only cause distress to the people affected but also raise the issue of response times from governments that have to meet unforeseen costs. when a disaster occurs, it is often too late for prevention but it should be an integral part of the next stage. i voted in favour because i believe it is important to seize the opportunity to comply with standards when rebuilding structures that have been destroyed or carrying out repairs on infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european union solidarity fund: an assessment. the european union solidarity fund is an instrument established to enable the eu to respond to major natural and regional disasters in the union and in the countries negotiating accession. the solidarity fund has been very useful since its creation, and its resources have been used for a total of eur 3.8 billion for 70 natural disasters in 24 eligible member states and accession countries. since the establishment of the fund, the number of natural disasters in the european union has increased significantly, and they have also become more severe and intense as a result of climate change. it is therefore important that in future, the allocation, management and implementation of the solidarity fund should ensure the greatest possible transparency and oversight of the use of the subsidies of the solidarity fund in order to ensure that the aid is effective and is directed to the right hands.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the motion for a resolution, as i do not believe that there is any legal uncertainty as to the compatibility of the agreement with the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. i also believe that further cooperation is needed in the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of crime.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution requesting the opinion of the court of justice on the compatibility of the proposed agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal data in the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences with the treaties. i believe that all the legal dilemmas concerning the ttip have already been resolved and this request is intended, in the view of the court of justice of the european union, to delay the procedure and finally annul the agreement which will bring many new jobs to the european union, increase investment and boost economic growth, which will be best known for the welfare of citizens.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the motion for a resolution of the european parliament requesting the court's opinion on the compatibility of the proposed agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal data in the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences with the treaties. my els political group considered that there was legal uncertainty as to the compatibility of the proposed agreement with the treaties and with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, and therefore wished to ask the court for an opinion on the compatibility of the proposed agreement with the treaties.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the motions for resolutions b8-1304/2016 and b8-1305/2016 of the european parliament requesting an opinion of the court of justice on the compatibility of the proposed agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal data in the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences with the treaties. the conclusion of an international agreement will allow for more effective and closer cooperation between the eu and the us in the exchange of law enforcement-related information. i consider that the agreement ensures both the protection of personal data and privacy and does not disproportionately affect fundamental rights guaranteed by the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, such as in particular the right to the protection of personal data, privacy and the right to an effective remedy and to a fair trial
in writing. ‒ i support the conclusion of the agreement in question, as this agreement between the european union and the united states of america will significantly contribute to increasing the security of citizens. it thus addresses the protection of personal data in the context of transfers and processing intended for the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences, including terrorism, which is currently on the rise.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal data in the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences. we need a broad set of safeguards and protections to be applied when personal data is exchanged between the united states of america and the european union for law enforcement purposes. the signed agreement does just that and contributes sufficiently to legal certainty, thus complementing the safeguards for data protection under existing and future agreements.
in writing. ‒ i supported, on behalf of the european union, the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal data in the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences. the agreement aims to ensure a high level of protection of the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals, in particular the right to privacy with regard to the processing of personal data, when personal data are transferred to the competent authorities of the european union and its member states and the united states for these purposes (also referred to as the umbrella agreement). the umbrella agreement does not provide a legal basis for the transfer of personal data the basis for this is in some previous agreements (which it merely complements, harmonises). the agreement contains restrictions on the purpose and use of the transfer of personal data in order to prevent misuse of the release of personal data. the agreement represents a major advance in the protection of personal data when transferred between the eu and the us in the context of law enforcement activities. it may not be the best agreement that can be envisaged, but it is certainly the best possible in the present circumstances. the legal affairs committee gave its opinion on the draft and concluded that the envisaged agreement is based on an appropriate legal basis, ensures a high level of protection of fundamental rights to personal data and contributes to legal certainty and will enhance law enforcement cooperation with the united states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal information relating to the prevention, investigation, detection, and prosecution of criminal offenses. the purpose of the agreement is to ensure a high level of protection of personal information and enhance cooperation between the united states and the european union and its member states, in relation to the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences, including terrorism. the envisaged agreement is mainly devoted to establishing a wide set of protections and safeguards, which will apply to the transfers of personal data for criminal law enforcement purposes between the united states, on the one hand, and the european union or its member states, on the other. i voted in favour because i believe that the envisaged agreement creates a framework for the protection of personal data that contributes to legal certainty. the agreement will supplement, where necessary, data protection safeguards in existing and future data transfer agreements or national provisions authorising such transfers.
in writing. ‒ i voted to approve the agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal data in the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences, on behalf of the european union. i support the agreement as it seeks to ensure a high level of protection of the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals, in particular the right to privacy with regard to the processing of personal data when personal data are transferred to the competent authorities of the european union and its member states and the united states for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the eu-ghana interim agreement, as ghana and the eu are partners in various fields. the agreement is also important in promoting regional economic integration and investment. ghana is one of the main exporters of agri-food products to the economic community of west african states region, exporting cocoa, fruit, nuts and fish and importing rice, sugar and meat. all these raw materials are important for european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of an interim economic partnership agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and ghana, of the other part. the interim agreement will be provisionally applied until the entry into force of the comprehensive economic partnership agreement between the european union and ghana. during this period, ghana has been granted duty-free access to the eu market. as the final negotiations on the regional economic partnership agreement are slow, we need to renew the interim agreement.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion of an interim economic partnership agreement between ghana, of the one part, and the european community and its member states, of the other part. the eu-west africa economic partnership is still a long way off, and ghana has therefore decided to proceed with the ratification of the interim economic cooperation agreement with the eu. in 2015, the total value of bilateral trade between ghana and the eu was eur 5,4 billion, representing more than 20% of total external trade. about one third of ghana's timber exports go to european markets (an agreement has been signed allowing legal timber trade with the eu). the 2007 agreement clearly does not fully correspond to the reality in 2016 and the interim agreement should be renewed. the interim agreement provides ghana, a lower middle-income country, with 100% market access based on a long-term contractual relationship, thereby providing the stability needed for new investment and job creation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the stepping stone economic partnership agreement between ghana, of the one part, and the european community and its member states, of the other part. ghana and the eu are partners across different areas, including that of fostering regional economic integration and investment. in 2015, the total two-way trade between ghana and the eu was worth 5.4 billion euros, comprising over 20% of ghana’s external trade. as soon as the regional epa enters into force, it will replace the two existing interim epas within the region. i voted in favour because i believe that the iepa ensures to ghana, a lower middle-income country, a 100% market access offer based on a long-term contractual relationship, which will ensure stability needed for new investments and job creation.
in writing. ‒ voted in favour of the conclusion of the economic partnership agreement between ghana, of the one part, and the european community and its member states, of the other part. i support the conclusion of the interim agreement as it will help to prevent trade disruptions for ghana, while also serving as a basis for a future regional economic partnership agreement. the interim agreement thus provides ghana, a lower middle-income country, with 100% market access on the basis of a long-term contractual relationship, thus providing the stability needed for new investment and job creation.
in writing. ‒ i agree to the release of the security reserve to respond to the needs arising from the migration, refugee and security crisis. however, we will be able to respond to these needs by increasing commitments above the ceiling of heading 3 of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016. with this additional €240.1 million, we will be able to ensure that the aid needed is properly addressed.
in writing. ‒ in addition to amending budget no 4/2014, in which it proposed, inter alia, a reduction of the level of payment appropriations by around eur 7 billion in the field of economic, social and territorial cohesion and an increase in the level of commitment appropriations by eur 50 million for the union emergency assistance instrument, eur 130 million for the asylum, migration and integration fund and eur 70 million for the internal security fund, the commission also proposed to mobilise the security reserve for 2016 of eur 240 million to increase the commitment appropriations for 2016 related to expenditure in the field of security and citizenship. this report addresses the proposal for a decision of the parliament and the council which examined the financing possibilities for the consequences of unforeseen circumstances within the ceilings of the security and citizenship strand and concluded that the full amount of the flexibility instrument for 2016 has already been used and that, therefore, in order to successfully respond to the challenges of the migration, refugee and security crisis, the european union needs to mobilise the security reserve by increasing the ceiling of the security and citizenship strand for 2016. since the report welcomes the above conclusion and since i believe that all the tools at our disposal must be used to alleviate the crisis, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the release of the security reserve in 2016. in the last two years, the european union has witnessed a migration and refugee crisis, as well as a security crisis reflected in terrorist attacks in the eu. the commission notes that the financial corrections for the 2016 financial year were made in the form of a capital increase of eur [...] million. this will increase commitments above the ceiling of title 3 of the 2016 eu general budget.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a european parliament resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the release of the security reserve in 2016. the european parliament and the council have decided to mobilise the security reserve in the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, to provide eur 240,1 million in commitment appropriations above the commitment ceiling of section 3 of the multiannual financial framework and to offset the difference in the amount of eur 240,1 million in commitments referred to in article 1 in full against the commitment ceiling of section 5 (management) of the multiannual financial framework for the financial year 2016. the decision was published in the official journal of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the contingency margin in 2016. the commission proposed, together with draft amending budget no 4/2016, to mobilise the contingency margin for 2016 for an amount of eur 240,1 million so as to complement the commitment appropriations related to expenditure in heading 3 ‘security and citizenship’ in the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016. for the general budget of the union for the financial year 2016, the contingency margin shall be mobilised to provide the amount of eur 240.1 million in commitment appropriations over and above the commitment ceiling of heading 3 of the multiannual financial framework. i voted in favour because i believe that having regard to this very particular situation, the last-resort condition in article 13(1) of regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 is fulfilled.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the release of the precautionary reserve in 2016. i support the release of the security reserve for 2016 of eur 240,1 million to increase the resources for the commitment of the needs arising from the migration, refugee and security crisis.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the draft amending budget no 4/2016, as the latest developments in the field of migration and security require changes. there is also a fall in the pound against the euro, which has led to an expected revenue shortfall. the commission has ensured that this shortfall will be covered by the revenue from fines.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 4/2016 reduces the level of payment appropriations by approximately eur 7 billion, mainly in the area of economic, social and territorial cohesion, thereby reducing member states' contributions accordingly. at the same time, it increases the level of commitment appropriations to eur 50 million for the union emergency assistance instrument, eur 130 million for the asylum, migration and integration fund and eur 70 million for the internal security fund, which will require the mobilisation of the security reserve. the proposal also provides for the reallocation of resources to the efsi from the connecting europe facility and, on the revenue side, also contains adjustments based on the correction of the forecast of traditional own resources, vat and gni base and the inclusion of corrections for the financing of the budget by the united kingdom. as the report raises some important issues and warnings, such as the problem of a high surplus of payments, which could lead to an excessive accumulation of payment claims towards the end of the mff, the need to replace the reallocated funds from the connecting europe facility as soon as possible, and the shortfall in eu revenue due to the depreciation of the british pound, estimated at eur 1.8 billion, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the council's position on the draft amending budget of the european union for the financial year 2016. i support the additional appropriations in title 3 by releasing the security reserve, as well as by paying additional appropriations for the frontex staff plan at the beginning of the period and by partially increasing the asylum, migration and integration fund. however, we can all be concerned that, despite the high rate of budget implementation under member states' national programmes, only a few refugees have been relocated to date.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a european parliament resolution on the council position on the draft amending budget no 4/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016: updating appropriations to reflect the latest developments in the areas of migration and security, reducing payment and commitment appropriations due to the global reallocation, extending the efsi, amending the staff establishment plan of frontex and updating the revenue appropriations (own resources). a particular concern has arisen as regards the overpayment of eur 7,284,3 million, which is due to major delays in the implementation of eu programmes under shared management and could lead to a backlog of payment claims towards the end of the current multiannual financial framework. concerns were also raised as the depreciation of the british pound against the euro led to an expected revenue shortfall estimated at eur 1,8 billion. the additional appropriations for the frontex staff scheme will be paid at the beginning of the period. the asylum, migration and integration fund has also increased, but it is worrying that very little has been done to relocate migrants.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 4/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016: update of appropriations to reflect the latest developments on migration and security issues, reduction of payment and commitment appropriations as a result of the global transfer, extension of efsi, modification of the staff establishment plan of frontex and update of revenue appropriations (own resources). the report expresses serious concerns over the payment surplus of eur 7 284.3 million, which is the result of major delays in the implementation of eu programmes under shared management and paves the way for an important accumulation of payment requests towards the end of the current mff. it agrees with the frontloading of efsi provided the redeployment from cef is duly compensated in 2018. i voted in favour because i am concerned by the fact that, despite a high rate of budgetary execution based on member states’ national programmes, only a few relocations of refugees have actually taken place to date.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council position report on the proposal for a budget amendment of the european union no 4/2016 for the financial year 2016: updating of appropriations to reflect the latest developments in the areas of migration and security, reduction of payment and commitment appropriations due to global reallocation, extension of the efsi, amendment of the staff establishment plan of frontex and updating of revenue appropriations (own resources). i support the draft amending budget no 4/2016 which provides for the release of a safety reserve of a total amount of eur 240,1 million. i believe that the additional funds are justified as they will be used to address the financial needs of migration, security and asylum.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the draft amending budget. it is important that we start implementing the own resources decision. this is also affected by the completion of the ratification process and the entry into force of the euratom decision, which contains a reduction in the cost of collecting traditional own resources and a new, lower call rate for vat resources for some member states and a gross reduction in contributions based on gdp for some member states.
in writing. ‒ the draft amending budget no 5/2016 follows the entry into force of decision 2014/335/eu, euratom, which will reduce the cost of collecting traditional own resources and the call rate for vat and gni contributions for certain member states. on the revenue side of the eu budget for 2016, this proposal is to incorporate any adjustments to own resources resulting from the implementation of the abovementioned euratom decision, which have retroactive effect for the financial years 2014, 2015 and 2016. the amending budget proposal no 5/2016 alters the contributions of all member states but has no impact on the total revenue or expenditure side of the budget of the european union. since the parliament's report welcomes this proposal and in particular because this budgetary amendment will not change the revenue or expenditure of the european budget, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council position report on the draft amending budget of the european union for the financial year 2016: implementation of the own resources decision following the completion of its ratification procedure and entry into force on 1 october 2016. this amending budget will incorporate into the revenue side of the european union budget for 2016 the consequences of the adjustments to own resources adopted pursuant to the euratom decision and having retroactive effect for the financial years from 2014 onwards. this proposed amendment modifies the individual contributions of all member states, but does not affect the total revenue or expenditure side of the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a european parliament resolution on the council position on the draft amending budget of the european union no 5/2016 for the financial year 2016: implementation of own resources decision 2014/335/eu after the completion of the ratification process and entry into force on 1 october 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 5/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016: implementation of the own resources decision no 2014/335/eu further to the closing of the ratification process and its entry into force on 1 october 2016. draft amending budget no 5/2016 results from the completion of the ratification process and the entry into force of decision no 2014/335/eu, euratom, which contains limited changes such as the reduction of the collection costs of traditional own resources, a new reduced rate of call of the vat-based resource for some member states, and gross reductions in gni-based contributions for some member states. the draft aims at incorporating in the revenue side of the 2016 union budget the impact of adjustments to the own resources stemming from the implementation of decision no 2014/335/eu, euratom, with retroactive effect for the financial years 2014, 2015 and 2016. i voted in favour because i believe that the draft leads to the modification of the individual contributions of all member states, but affects neither the overall revenue nor expenditure side of the union budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the council position on the draft amending budget of the european union no 5/2016 for the financial year 2016: implementation of decision 2014/335/eu on own resources after the completion of the ratification procedure and its entry into force on 1 october 2016. the draft amending budget no 5/2016 provides for the incorporation of the consequences of the adjustments to own resources adopted pursuant to decision 2014/335/eu, euratom, which have retroactive effect for the financial years 2014, 2015 and 2016, into the revenue side of the union budget for 2016. the commission shall submit to the european parliament and to the council a report on the implementation of this regulation.
in writing. ‒ i agree to use the eu solidarity fund to provide assistance to germany. the purpose is to respond quickly, efficiently and flexibly to emergencies. it is also a show of solidarity with the people of the affected areas. on 19 august 2016, germany submitted an application to mobilise the fund, following a series of short-term, exceptionally intense floods that affected the region of lower bavaria in may and june 2016. however, since the scale of the natural disaster meets all the conditions for the use of the fund, i consider that there are no reservations about its use.
in writing. ‒ this report addresses the decision of the parliament and the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to germany following the floods that affected lower bavaria in may and june 2016. the floods destroyed public and private infrastructure and agricultural land, killing 7 people and affecting a total of 47 000 people. some communities have been without water for weeks, and have also had to deal with plumbing failures and electrical grid disruptions. the german authorities estimated the total direct damage at approximately eur 1,2 billion, which is well above the threshold of 1,5% of regional gdp, and therefore the accident can be considered a regional disaster under the provisions of the eu solidarity fund regulation. the commission therefore considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market. this report welcomes the decision of the parliament and the council confirming the mobilisation of the solidarity fund to assist germany. and since the solidarity fund is essentially a quick and effective emergency aid instrument by which the european union shows solidarity with the population of the affected areas, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to germany. germany has been affected by a number of short-term intense floods in may and june this year and has therefore submitted an application to mobilise the solidarity fund. germany will thus receive a good eur 31 million in commitment and payment appropriations. i voted in favour of the report because germany's contribution was complete and fully met the criteria for using the european union solidarity fund.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a european parliament resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to germany. the european union solidarity fund (the 'fund') aims to enable the union to respond quickly, efficiently and flexibly to emergencies, thus demonstrating its solidarity with the population of areas affected by natural disasters. germany was affected by intense short-term flooding in may and june 2016 and therefore applied for the use of the fund in august. the floods have destroyed public and private infrastructure, private homes and agricultural land. seven people died, and more than 47 000 people were affected in lower bavaria, with more than 2000 unable to return to their homes for two months after the floods. we need to make a decision as soon as possible to help people.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to germany. the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to grant financial assistance relating to a disaster in germany (floods affecting lower bavaria, especially the district of rottal-inn) that occurred in may and june 2016. the series of extremely intense, short-lived cases of flooding/flash floods caused destruction of public and private infrastructure, of private homes, and in agriculture. seven people lost their lives and more than 47 000 people in lower bavaria were affected. in their application, received by the commission on 19 august 2016, the german authorities estimated total direct damage caused by the disaster at eur 1 259.005 million. the total amount of aid proposed is therefore eur 31 475 125 eur. i voted in favour because i believe that the application by germany meets the conditions for providing a financial contribution from the fund, as laid down in article 4 of regulation (ec) no 2012/2002.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to germany. i support the allocation of eur 31 475 125 from the european union solidarity fund to germany to help with the numerous instances of short-term, exceptionally intense flooding that affected the region of niederbayern in may and june 2016.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the above draft amending budget as it is the result of the proposed use of the european union solidarity fund in relation to the floods in germany in may and june 2016.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 6/2016 provides the basis for the implementation of the proposed mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund in relation to the floods in germany in may and june 2016. in this proposal, the commission proposes to amend the 2016 budget by increasing commitment and payment appropriations for assistance to member states in the event of a major natural disaster having serious consequences for living conditions, the natural environment or the economy by a good eur 31 million. in this regard, the parliament's report stresses that the european union solidarity fund is a specific instrument and that the corresponding commitment and payment appropriations should be entered in the budget without taking into account the corresponding ceilings of the multiannual financial framework. as the report welcomes the commission's proposal to amend the 2016 budget, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council position report on the draft amending budget of the european union no 6/2016 for the financial year 2016, which accompanies the proposal to use the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to germany. as germany was hit by a number of short-lived, intense floods in may and june this year, it was the only country to apply for funding from the european union solidarity fund, thus becoming eligible for a good eur 31 million. i support the commission's proposal to amend the 2016 budget and increase the commitment and payment appropriations in the budget line.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a european parliament resolution on the council position on draft amending budget no 6/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016, accompanying the proposal to use the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to germany.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 6/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016 accompanying the proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to germany. draft amending budget no 6/2016 covers the proposed mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund in relation to floods that occurred in germany in may and june 2016. the commission consequently proposes to amend the 2016 budget and increase the budget article 13 06 01 ‘assistance to member states in the event of a major natural disaster with serious repercussions on living conditions, the natural environment or the economy’ by eur 31 475 125 both in commitment and in payment appropriations. the european union solidarity fund is a special instrument as defined in the mff regulation, and the corresponding commitment and payments appropriations are to be budgeted over and above the mff ceilings. i voted in favour because i believe that the application by germany meets the conditions for providing a financial contribution from the fund, as laid down in article 4 of regulation (ec) no 2012/2002.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council position report on the draft amending budget of the european union no 6/2016 for the financial year 2016, accompanying the proposal to use the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to germany. the amending budget proposal no 6/2016 covers the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund in relation to the floods in germany in may and june 2016. i support the use of the solidarity fund as it is intended to provide assistance to germany following the short-term, exceptionally intense floods that affected the region of niederbayern in may and june 2016 and caused serious consequences for living conditions, the natural environment and the economy.
in writing. ‒ i agree to the release of the 2017 contingency reserve, taking into account the use of the flexibility instrument, for a total amount of eur 530 million. this will be available in 2017 when the contingency reserve needs to be used to respond to the needs arising from the migration, refugee and security crisis, which we know is not yet over but is expected to intensify. the appropriations entered in this article are purely provisional and may be used only after transfer to other budget lines.
in writing. ‒ in response to future unforeseen circumstances, the commission has examined the financial possibilities under the 2017 ceilings for expenditure in the areas of security and citizenship and europe in the world, taking also fully into account the use of the flexibility instrument of eur 530 million, and has concluded that the migration, refugee and security crisis response should use the backstop by increasing the commitment appropriations above the ceilings of the two budget headings for 2017. the parliament's report on the proposal for a decision of the parliament and of the council on the release of the security reserve in 2017 agrees that new responses related to internal security crises, humanitarian issues and the migration and refugee crisis are likely to be needed in 2017. notes, however, that these challenges could significantly exceed the financial resources available under the security and citizenship heading, as the available reserve up to the ceiling is no longer available, and calls on the commission to clarify how the additional resources from the security reserve could be used to respond to the upcoming challenges; the report welcomes the commission's intention, despite some caveats, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the release of the 2017 contingency reserve. the european union has been witnessing a migration and security crisis for the last two years. since it is highly likely that we will face similar challenges in 2017 and that this will create new financing needs that will significantly exceed the funding available under title 3, the european commission should clarify how and whether it would be possible to use the additional funding under title 3 in 2017.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a european parliament resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the release of the security reserve in 2017. the commission has examined all options for financing additional and unforeseen needs for funds and has proposed the mobilisation of a reserve for 2017 of eur 1 164,4 million to supplement the commitment appropriations. in 2017, new financial needs are likely to emerge in relation to internal security crises and current humanitarian, migration and refugee challenges. it is therefore necessary to know how the additional funds from the reserve could be used to respond to any additional financial needs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the contingency margin in 2017. the commission proposed in the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017 to mobilise the contingency margin for an amount of eur 1 164.4 million in commitment appropriations over and above the commitment ceiling of heading 3 to respond to the additional funding needs arising from the security crisis and the migratory and humanitarian challenges in the union. additional financial needs are likely to arise in 2017 in relation to the internal security crises and the current humanitarian, migratory and refugee challenges. the fair and transparent distribution of funding between the different objectives of the asylum, migration and integration fund was a priority for parliament during the negotiations leading to the adoption of regulation (eu) no 516/2014 of the european parliament and of the council, which established the fund. i voted in favour because i believe that response to the security crises, migratory and refugee challenges has to be immediate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the release of the 2017 contingency reserve. i support the release of the security reserve in 2017 as new financial needs will arise in 2017 in the light of the current security and political situation in relation to internal security crises and current humanitarian challenges, as well as migration and refugee challenges.
in writing. ‒ i agree to the use of the flexibility instrument to finance immediate budgetary measures. this funding is necessary due to urgent needs and substantial additional amounts need to be used for measures to alleviate the current migration, refugee and security crisis.
in writing. ‒ the parliament's report addresses the decision of the parliament and the council to use the flexibility instrument to finance immediate budgetary measures to address the current migration, refugee and security crisis, which notes that an additional eur 530 million is needed to finance measures under the flexibility instrument to mitigate this crisis. the flexibility instrument finances expenditure which cannot be financed within the limits of the budget line ceilings. in this case, the 2017 ceilings for the 'security and citizenship' section do not allow for adequate funding of emergency measures in the area of migration, refugees and security. on this basis, the report agrees to the use of the flexibility instrument of eur 530 million, which is why i voted in favour of it. however, i would like to draw attention to the fact, as also noted by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, that the total amount available for this instrument in 2017 is eur 530 million, and that this is only a short-term solution to the issues to be addressed in the context of the ordinary budgetary procedure, and that this amount is unlikely to be sufficient to address the growing challenges in this area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to finance immediate budgetary measures to address the current migration, refugee and security crisis. as in previous years, 2017 will also be marked by challenges in the areas of migration, refugee and security crises. i support the mobilisation of commitment appropriations of eur 530 million from the flexibility instrument, as the 2017 ceilings of section 3 do not allow adequate funding for emergency measures in the areas of migration, refugees and security.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a european parliament resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to finance immediate budgetary measures to address the current migration, refugee and security crisis. the ceiling of title 3 of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017 does not allow for adequate funding of emergency measures in the areas of migration, refugees and security. the european parliament therefore agrees to mobilise the flexibility instrument to commit eur 530 million.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to finance immediate budgetary measures to address the on-going migration, refugee and security crisis. the proposed mobilisation of the flexibility instrument under heading 3 in the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017 for an amount of eur 530 million translates to the full amount available for this instrument in 2017 under the current mff rules. however, that budgetary flexibility has its limits and can only be a short-term solution for unexpected events that then need to be addressed with ordinary budget lines. even with the systematic mobilisation of the totality of the flexibility instrument under heading 3 in the coming years, the financial resources available will not be sufficient to tackle the increased needs. i voted in favour because i believe that the fair and transparent distribution of funding between the different objectives of the asylum, migration and integration fund is one of parliament’s priorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to finance immediate budgetary measures to address the current migration, refugee and security crisis. i support the commission's proposal to use the flexibility instrument to complement the financing from the general budget of the union for the financial year 2017, which exceeds the ceiling of title 3 of eur 530 million to finance measures in the area of migration, refugees and security, as the current situation indicates that additional financing for emergency measures will be needed to address this issue.
in writing. ‒ the solidarity fund enables the european union to respond quickly, efficiently and flexibly to emergencies, thus demonstrating its solidarity with the population of regions affected by natural disasters. the report on the use of the solidarity fund for the payment of advances under the general budget for 2017 welcomes the decision of the parliament and the council to conclude that the use of the fund for the payment of advances should amount to eur 50 million in order to ensure sufficient funds in the general budget of the european union for 2017 in a timely manner. this is the maximum amount of use of the fund that can be granted in cases where rapid action is required and budgetary resources must be made available in good time. this proposal is not linked to a specific disaster but provides for the entry of emergency funds into the general budget of the union so that they can be made available immediately in the event of future disasters. i voted in favour of the parliament's report, as it contains an important message, in addition to supporting the parliament and council decision, that the solidarity fund is not just one form of eu financial support, but above all a clear political expression of solidarity with citizens in need.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to pay advances against the general budget of the union for 2017. the budgetary package also includes a proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund, providing eur 50 million for the fund for disaster pre-financing. the european union solidarity fund is more than just financial support. it is also a political message of solidarity and offers the necessary help to the citizens affected. rapid response, including through advance payments, will help the union to achieve these objectives.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the proposal for a european parliament resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide for the payment of advances in the general budget of the union for 2017. the european union solidarity fund was established to enable the union to respond rapidly to emergencies caused by major natural disasters and as an expression of european solidarity with the affected european regions. this proposal is not linked to a specific accident but is intended to enter eur 50 million in commitments and payments in the general budget of the union for 2017 in order to allow for the timely and efficient payment of advances in the event of an accident occurring next year. a rapid response, including through advance payments, will help the union to show solidarity and to offer assistance to affected citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide for the payment of advances in the general budget of the union for 2017. the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up to enable the union to respond to emergency situations caused by major natural disasters and to express european solidarity to disaster-stricken regions within europe. the fund can provide financial aid to member states and countries involved in accession negotiations in the event of a ‘major natural disaster’. the mff regulation for the period 2014-2020 allows the mobilisation of the fund within the annual ceiling of eur 500 million (2011 prices), over and above the relevant headings of the financial framework. the current proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council is not linked to a specific disaster. i voted in favour because i believe that the eusf is not simply another form of eu financial support, but that it also contributes to sending a clear political message of solidarity, while providing much-needed assistance to affected citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to pay advances against the general budget of the union for 2017. the european union solidarity fund aims to enable the union to respond quickly, efficiently and flexibly to emergencies, thus demonstrating its solidarity with the population of areas affected by natural disasters. i therefore consider it justified to provide for the payment of the advances an amount of eur 50 000 000 in commitment and payment appropriations, thus enabling the efficient implementation of the fund.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the joint text for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, approved by the conciliation committee in the budgetary procedure. the 2017 budget, thanks to the european parliament, has more funds available for the strategic headings: employment, small and medium-sized enterprises, transport infrastructure, research and innovation, erasmus and our security. we have an ambitious eu budget for 2017, a budget for the challenges of today and tomorrow, which, despite the limited resources, covers all political priorities in a balanced way and ensures synergies between different areas.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the joint text for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, which was approved by the conciliation committee in the budgetary procedure. the agreement was reached after a budgetary reconciliation, after the council recognised and accepted the points put forward by the european delegation, such as 200 million for certain priority programmes (horizon 2020, cef-transport, erasmus+ and cosme) and 500 million for youth employment. the 2017 budget also includes additional money for migration and additional aid for farmers. the final agreement also contains some important items for the epp (financial contributions for: europol, the paralympic games in austria, the eastern partnership, macro-financial assistance). it's divided into sections. the first is money for competitiveness, for growth and jobs, and for economic, social and territorial cohesion. the second is about sustainable development, natural resources - agriculture. the third section is security and citizenship. the fourth concerns global europe (palestine, the eastern european partnership, macro-financial assistance, the turkish cypriot community). the fifth section is administration (wages and other elements).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the joint text on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017 approved by the conciliation committee under the budgetary procedure. the report recalls that reducing youth unemployment remains a high and shared political priority, and to this end [the european parliament, the council and the commission] reaffirm their determination to make the best possible use of budgetary resources available to tackle it. in order to address the root causes of migration, the commission launched the european fund for sustainable development (efsd) based on the establishment of an efsd guarantee and an efsd guarantee fund. the commission proposes to endow the efsd guarantee fund with eur 750 million over the period 2017–2020, of which eur 400 million from the european development fund (edf) over the four years. parliament, the council and the commission agree that the establishment of trust funds and of the facility for refugees in turkey should be transparent and clear. i voted in favour because i believe that those issues have to be addressed as part of the revision of the financial regulation in order to strike the right balance between flexibility and accountability.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the joint text for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, approved by the conciliation committee in the budgetary procedure. i support the proposal for the general budget of the european union because i believe it is development-oriented, since it encourages, among other things, investment and regional development and allocates additional funds to the implementation of the erasmus+ programme.
in writing. ‒ i support the resolution which notes the seriousness of the earthquakes in central italy. on 24 august 2016, central italy was struck by a devastating earthquake which caused significant material damage and destroyed towns, severely damaged local and regional infrastructure, destroyed historical and cultural heritage and damaged the economy. the earthquake and subsequent aftershocks injured more than 400 people, killed 290 and displaced up to 100,000.
in writing. ‒ the earthquake in italy on 30 october, with a magnitude of 6.5, is considered one of the strongest earthquakes to hit the apennines since the 1980s. three consecutive earthquakes left more than 100,000 residents in the quake zone homeless. cities, towns and villages are destroyed, local and regional infrastructure is damaged, historical and cultural buildings are destroyed, all of which have a negative impact on tourism and the economy. in the current situation, it is most important to offer financial as well as humanitarian assistance to the affected areas. the reconstruction of the affected areas and buildings must begin as soon as possible so that the local population can return to their homes and resume their normal lives. in view of the gravity of the situation and the large number of persons affected, the european commission should take all necessary measures to examine italy's request for financial assistance from the european solidarity fund as soon as possible. it is necessary to grant italy the requested financial assistance, while ensuring that the necessary synergies between the different financial instruments are established for the purpose of rapid recovery and that the funds are used efficiently and transparently. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in italy following the earthquakes. this year, italy has been struck by earthquakes followed by aftershocks that have devastated entire villages, leaving many in these and surrounding areas on the verge of despair. more than 400 people were injured, and 290 died. i therefore support the call on the commission to consider, in the light of the exceptional and very serious situation, the possibility of excluding sustainable reconstruction and all earthquake-resistant investments, including those co-financed by the european structural and investment funds, from the national deficit calculation under the stability and growth pact.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament resolution on the situation in italy after the earthquakes. italy was struck by a devastating earthquake in august 2016, followed by three more powerful quakes in late october. entire villages were completely destroyed, bringing many residents of the affected areas to the brink of despair and causing significant indirect damage to the surrounding areas. there was a displacement of 100,000 people. the recent earthquakes have devastated towns, seriously damaged local and regional infrastructure, destroyed historical and cultural heritage and damaged economic activities, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, agriculture, landscapes, as well as tourism and hospitality capacities. it is necessary to offer immediate assistance and to take measures to ensure that the problems are alleviated before the coming winter.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in italy after the earthquakes. between august and october 2016 three devastating earthquakes hit the central apennines region of italy, killing 290 people, injuring more than 400 and displacing tens of thousands. the most recent quake, which occurred on 30 october, is the strongest to have been recorded in italy since the 1980 irpinia earthquake. the territories concerned suffer from a deformation that extends over an area of about 130 square km, with a maximum displacement of at least 70 cm. the earthquakes caused serious damage to towns, infrastructure and historic, artistic and cultural heritage assets. in order to cover reconstruction costs, italy may be obliged to submit a request for the amendment of its national and regional operational programmes under article 30 of regulation (eu) no 1303/2013 in order to be able to allocate more resources to thematic objective 5. the resolution underlines the serious economic effects of the successive earthquakes and the destruction left in their wake. i voted in favour because i believe that we have to show our deepest solidarity and empathy with all the individuals affected by the earthquakes and their families.
in writing. ‒ i agree that the requirements for commissioners to make a statement of interest should be tightened up. thus, by extending and improving the rules on conflicts of interest, those declarations should also include details of any contractual relationship of a candidate for commissioner which could give rise to a conflict of interest in the performance of his duties. it is in the interest of all, and in particular of the citizens of the union, to avoid possible conflicts of interest by ensuring maximum transparency.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on the commissioners' declarations of interests guidelines. i support the report which recalls, inter alia, that the purpose of the review of commissioners' declarations of financial interests is to ensure the ability of commissioners-designate to act with complete independence and to ensure the greatest possible transparency and accountability of the commission. the assessment of a possible conflict of interest must also be based on convincing, objective and relevant facts and be linked to the area of activity of the commissioner-designate. we must therefore give the legal affairs committee sufficient time to examine the whole area in depth and to make an appropriate assessment.
in writing. ‒ motion for a european parliament resolution on commissioners' declarations of interests - i supported the guidelines. annex xvi to parliament's rules of procedure on the guidelines for the confirmation of the commission provides that parliament may seek all information relevant to its decision on the suitability of a candidate for commissioner. expects full disclosure of information relating to their financial interests. declarations of interests of candidate commissioners shall be forwarded to the committee responsible for legal affairs for examination. unfortunately, that provision does not define precisely the scope of the review by the committee on legal affairs. therefore, an additional substantive review is necessary. it is necessary to specify the scope of the review of declarations of financial interests by the committee on legal affairs. the role of the committee on legal affairs shall be to assess the existence of possible conflicts of interest and, where appropriate, to make recommendations for their elimination. the control of declarations of financial interests and, more generally, of possible conflicts of interest relating to members of the commission should not be limited to the commission's appointment procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on commissioners’ declarations of interests – guidelines. the aim of scrutinising commissioners’ declarations of financial interests is to ensure that the commissioners-designate are able to fulfil their mandates completely independently and to ensure maximum transparency and accountability on the part of the commission. the report points out that a conflict of interests is defined as ‘any interference situation between a public interest and public and private interests that is likely to affect or that appears likely to affect the independent, impartial and objective exercise of a duty’. it equally underlines that the committee on legal affairs observes the strictest confidentiality when examining questions relating to the declarations of interests of the commissioners-designate, but also ensures, in accordance with the principle of transparency, that its conclusions are published as soon as they are available. i voted in favour because i believe that beyond the time allocated for questions that the committee on legal affairs wishes to put to the commissioner-designate, should it note a possible conflict of interests, it should be granted the right to continue with the hearing and obtain the required clarifications.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on the commissioners' declarations of interests guidelines. i support calls on the commission to urgently revise the 2011 code of conduct for commissioners to take account of the recommendations made by the european parliament in its recent resolutions and the general development of ethics and transparency standards applicable to all eu institutions. i believe that full disclosure of information relating to the financial interests of commissioners-designate contributes to the personal integrity of the candidates and strengthens the trust of eu citizens in the independent functioning of the eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ i agree that further improvements are needed in the maritime safety directive, which complements directive 2004/35/ec on environmental liability and directive 2011/92/eu on environmental impact assessment, and the ratification of the protocol on maritime activities to the barcelona convention in the council. these are the right steps to protect the environment, regulate human activities and ensure the safety of workers. it is important to be aware of the scale of oil and gas extraction in the north sea, which will in future extend to the southern mediterranean. however, the increased volume certainly increases the potential for accidents and therefore adequate safety must be ensured.
in writing. ‒ in order to establish minimum requirements for preventing and limiting the consequences of major accidents in offshore oil and gas operations, the european union adopted a directive on safety at sea in response to the major explosion on the deepwater horizon platform. the parliament's report calls for the full implementation and enforcement of this directive and stresses the need to establish an appropriate legal framework to regulate all maritime activities before the next major maritime disaster occurs. i voted in favour of the report because it highlights two very important aspects. first, the report expresses concern that the maritime safety directive defines an accident as 'major' only if it results in fatalities or serious bodily injury, but does not include possible serious consequences for the environment, for example when the accident seriously affects protected areas or protected species. secondly, the report rightly points out that the effective application of the 'polluter pays' principle for offshore oil and gas activities in line with the principle of sustainable development should not only cover the cost of remediating environmental damage, but also the settlement of compensation claims. the report also stresses the need to introduce strict liability rules for accidents at sea, which would make it easier for victims to access justice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on liability, compensation and financial security for offshore oil and gas activities. i support the report which calls on member states which have not yet transposed the environmental liability and environmental impact assessment directives to do so without delay, while ensuring the independence of the competent authorities, and on the commission to assess whether it is appropriate to introduce additional harmonised rules on liability, compensation and financial security. it is the only way to prevent any further accidents with cross-border consequences.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a european parliament resolution on liability, compensation and financial security for offshore oil and gas activities. offshore oil and gas activities are increasingly carried out further from land and often in much deeper water than before. some of the activities take place in very harsh environments, like the arctic. in april 2010, an explosion occurred on the deep water platform, causing a spill. this made it clear that minimum requirements were needed to prevent major accidents in offshore oil and gas operations in the eu and to limit the consequences of such accidents (the safety at sea directive was adopted after the accident). it is necessary to update the existing liability systems in member states in order to ensure that incidents in member states' waters do not adversely affect offshore oil and gas activities. the commission should work closely with member states to ensure that the system of compensation and financial guarantees for offshore oil and gas activities in the eu is updated, in particular to allow third parties to claim compensation for traditional damage caused by offshore oil and gas activities. this also requires the establishment of an effective compensation system.
in writing. ‒ i voted on the report on liability, compensation and financial security for offshore oil and gas operations. offshore oil and gas operations are being carried out further from land and often in much deeper waters than has previously been the case. some operations are taking place in harsh environments and in locations that depend on tourism for a large part of their income. following the explosion and oil spill from deepwater horizon on 20 april 2010, the offshore safety directive was adopted with the aim of establishing minimum requirements for preventing major accidents in offshore oil and gas operations in the eu and to limit the consequences of such accidents. member states had until 19 july to update their national legislative frameworks for offshore oil and gas operations to be in line with the offshore safety directive. i voted in favour because i believe that it is of utmost importance to update the existing liability systems in the member states to ensure that if an incident occurs in the waters of these states, it would not adversely affect the future of offshore oil and gas operations nor that of the entire eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on liability, compensation and financial security for offshore oil and gas activities. according to estimates from various studies, there have been thousands of accidents in the oil and gas sector in the european union, with serious and lasting consequences for the marine environment. i therefore consider it important that there are effective and appropriate compensation mechanisms and appropriate mechanisms for the rapid handling of claims in the event of damage caused by oil and gas activities to humans, animals and the environment. at the same time, the mechanisms for the mandatory financial guarantee for the payment of compensation in the event of accidents should not impose a disproportionate financial burden on the companies in the gas and oil industry and thus place them in a non-competitive position.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the worrying situation in the democratic republic of congo, where president joseph kabila is clinging to the presidency and delaying the holding of elections. in addition, in the past two years, president kabila has tried to postpone the elections by administrative and technical means in order to remain in power after his term expires, with a constitutionally limited mandate that could degenerate into a dictatorship. his attempts to amend the constitution of the drc to allow him to run for a third term in office failed in 2015 precisely because of strong opposition and mobilization of civil society, which clearly shows the disapproval of such changes.
in writing. delays in the organisation of the forthcoming presidential and parliamentary elections in the democratic republic of the congo constitute a serious breach of the congolese constitution. the situation and the delay are the responsibility of president kabila and the congolese government. these actions seriously threaten the peace and security of the democratic republic of the congo. in addition, the situation regarding freedom of expression and the media and the right to organise in the country has deteriorated significantly over the past two years. i think this trend is clearly linked to the government's attempts to postpone elections and extend the president's term, despite the fact that he's already in power for two terms, which is the maximum allowed by the congolese constitution. elections are crucial to re-establish a favourable environment in the country for the free and peaceful exercise of freedom of expression, association and assembly, and freedom of the press. it is also important to ensure that elections are held in a free and fair manner. in addition, the congolese authorities should investigate, prosecute and sanction appropriately the members of the security forces and intelligence services and other persons responsible for the violent and illegal repression of activists, opposition leaders and others opposing president kabila's attempts to remain in power. as the resolution in question addresses all the relevant elements of the problem facing the democratic republic of congo, i voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of the congo. the president of the democratic republic of the congo, despite the constitution forbidding him to run for a third term, has tried in the last two years to postpone elections by various means, thus circumventing the constitution, which is very clear. i share the concern about the increasingly unstable situation in the country and the reminder to the authorities and the president of the state that it is their duty to protect citizens throughout the national territory, in particular against abuses and crimes.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of congo. president kabila has been trying for the past two years to delay the elections by administrative and technical means in order to remain in power after the expiry of his constitutionally limited term. president kabila and part of the opposition signed an agreement postponing the 2016 elections to 2018. human rights groups regularly report on the deterioration of the situation of human rights, freedom of expression and association, and freedom of protest in the country in the run-up to the elections. violence and crime are also on the rise. in kinshasa, 50 people were reported killed in september 2016, and more are missing. we can express our concern about the unstable situation in the congo. the democratic republic of the congo and the european union are signatories to the cotonou agreement, whereby the democratic republic of the congo has committed itself to respecting the principles of democracy. the deteriorating human rights situation and the shrinking political space are a cause for concern. it is necessary to continue to monitor developments and to use appropriate means to support human rights and democracy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of the congo. in november 2015 president kabila announced the launch of a national dialogue. the african union appointed former togolese prime minister edem kodjo as national political dialogue facilitator. the african union, the united nations, the european union and the international organisation of la francophonie have jointly underscored the importance of dialogue and the search for an agreement between political actors. humanitarian agencies believe that political instability is plunging the country into chaos and causing its population, already weakened by the various past and present crises, to sink into extreme poverty and insecurity, with more than 5 million people currently in need of food assistance. i voted in favour because i believe that the eu has to take more concrete actions and to immediately launch the procedure under article 96 of the cotonou agreement, and to adopt targeted sanctions, including a visa ban and asset freeze, against the senior officials and armed forces agents responsible for the violent repression of demonstrations and the political impasse which is preventing a peaceful and constitutional transition of power.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of congo. human rights groups regularly report on the deteriorating situation of human rights, freedom of expression and association, and freedom of protest in the country in the run-up to the elections, including the use of excessive force against peaceful demonstrators, journalists, political leaders, and others. as a result, political instability has spread chaos in the country, plunging the population into extreme poverty and insecurity, with more than 5 million people currently in need of food assistance. i join the call for all political actors to engage in a peaceful and constructive dialogue to prevent this political crisis from worsening. the eu must continue to monitor developments in the drc and use all appropriate means and instruments to support human rights defenders and pro-democracy movements.
in writing. ‒ i support the resolution because i am aware of the importance of access to energy. this access to energy accelerates development and reduces the scale and consequences of energy poverty in developing countries. this requires a determined and coordinated effort by governments, civil society and other stakeholders in the relevant countries, as well as international partners, to reduce energy poverty and achieve the goal of sustainable development in those countries. this is africa, the continent with the greatest potential for renewable energy, but also the continent that lags behind the others in terms of electrification, which affects its sustainable development and encourages the migration of poor people to the eu.
in writing. sustainable access to affordable, reliable and secure energy is of paramount importance for meeting basic human needs and rights. in addition, access to energy is crucial for economic development. sadly, as many as 1.2 billion people worldwide lack access to electricity, and many more face unreliable access. a disturbing fact is that half of the people without access to electricity live in africa. 2.3 billion people use traditional biomass for cooking, such as coal, and that often has real harmful consequences for health and the environment. this is why programmes focusing on renewable, energy-efficient, small and decentralised energy solutions need to be encouraged. energy poverty is most widespread in rural areas, but geographical location, connectivity and lack of infrastructure also pose a major challenge in ensuring access to energy in increasingly large areas of fast-growing cities. renewable energy in africa has enormous potential, particularly in terms of generating solar and wind energy and providing access to all, especially in rural areas. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. since all the facts written in the resolution are relevant, i voted to adopt them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on access to energy in developing countries. i support efforts to reduce energy poverty in developing countries. we need decisive and coordinated action from all stakeholders: the authorities, civil society and international partners. we must not forget that access to energy is a catalyst for development. i agree that the provisions in the regulation establishing the development cooperation instrument provide a solid basis for european union development assistance in the field of energy, while at the same time highlighting the importance of local and regional sources of renewable energy.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on access to energy in developing countries. sustainable access to affordable, reliable and secure energy is of paramount importance for the satisfaction of basic human needs and rights, including access to clean water, public utilities, a safe and protected environment, health care, heating and education, essential for virtually all economic activities and a key driver of development, as access to energy also has security and geopolitical aspects and as energy issues can fuel conflict. 1.2 billion people do not have access to electricity, the highest percentage of people without electricity are in african countries (where half the people do not have electricity). access to energy is a development driver and therefore europe's desire to help developing countries electrify as quickly as possible is welcomed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on access to energy in developing countries. sustainable access to affordable, reliable and safe energy is crucial for the satisfaction of basic human needs and rights, including access to clean water, sanitation, a safe and secure environment, health care, heating and education, is essential for virtually all kinds of economic activity, and is a key driver of development. africa is both the continent with the greatest potential for renewable energy on the planet and the one lagging furthest behind in terms of electrification. energy poverty is most widespread in rural areas, but provision of access to energy in the expanding areas of rapidly growing cities is also a massive challenge, given the realities of geography, connectivity and lack of infrastructure. moreover, energy poverty also has a gender dimension. the resolution stresses the strong relationship between energy and potential security issues. i voted in favour because i believe that energy governance, while also difficult to implement, is essential to economic and human development in developing countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on access to energy in developing countries. sustainable access to affordable, reliable and secure energy is of paramount importance for meeting basic human needs and rights, including access to clean water, public utilities, healthcare, heating and education. access to energy accelerates development and prevents conflicts over energy issues and poverty. i therefore support the eu's close involvement in efforts to reduce energy poverty and achieve sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the implementation of the european order for payment procedure and welcome its successful functioning in all member states as a procedure applicable in civil and commercial matters in relation to the execution of uncontested claims. its main objective is to simplify and speed up the procedure for the cross-border recognition and enforcement of creditors' rights in the european union, thereby enabling the economy to function smoothly.
in writing. ‒ the european order for payment procedure is an action in the field of judicial cooperation in civil matters with cross-border elements. it is intended to facilitate the recovery of sums by creditors in cross-border judicial proceedings by allowing them to obtain an order for the recovery of undisputed civil and commercial claims easily. small and medium-sized enterprises have recently been facing increased delays in payments, which seriously threatens their survival and the loss of many jobs. according to the commission, there are approximately 12 000 applications for european payment orders submitted each year, with a wide variation in use between member states. this shows that there is a need to increase the information of citizens, businesses and legal professionals on the existence, operation and benefits of this procedure. the parliament's report welcomes the successful operation of the procedure to date and supports the commission's future efforts to optimise it. as the report points out, among other things, some essential facts, such as the practice of member states preferring to use national legislation instead of the european order for payment procedure, which prevents citizens from exercising their rights at cross-border level and thus reduces trust in eu legislation, i voted in favour of it. it is also a good report, calling for the simplification and acceleration of this procedure and for the reduction of the cost of crossborder cases.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the european order for payment procedure. the main objective of the european order for payment, which is applicable in civil and commercial matters relating to the enforcement of uncontested claims, is to simplify and accelerate the procedure for the cross-border recognition and enforcement of creditors' rights in the european union. i support the report which considers that practical measures should be taken to further inform citizens, businesses, legal professionals and all other relevant parties about the existence, operation, use and advantages of the european order for payment procedure in cross-border cases;
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a european parliament resolution on the implementation of the european order for payment procedure. the purpose of the european order for payment procedure is to facilitate the recovery of sums in cross-border judicial proceedings. the procedure allows creditors to easily obtain a recovery order for uncontested civil and commercial claims. it can be requested by post, and often by electronic means - no lawyer is required. some countries have a low rate of use, so more needs to be done to inform businesses and legal professionals about the existence of the procedure and its benefits. the successful use of the procedure requires a rapid (30 day) issuance, the ability to submit the relevant forms online and the acceptance of applications in foreign languages. the commission should adopt new versions of certain standard forms in order to take account of the various changes that have taken place in recent years and to improve the clarity of those parts of the text where the payment of interest is concerned.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the application of the european order for payment procedure. the purpose of the european order for payment procedure is to allow for the easier recovery of sums in cross-border proceedings. the procedure is optional, meaning that it is available in cross-border cases as an alternative to the various equivalent national procedures. the procedure allows creditors to easily obtain an order to recover uncontested civil and commercial claims. it can be applied for by correspondence or, often, electronically, does not require the assistance of a lawyer, and is enforceable in other member states without any need for additional formalities. the commission states that some 12 000 applications for european orders for payment are made each year. where the defendant opposes the application, the procedure cannot continue. i voted in favour because i believe that the commission should adopt new versions of the standard forms in order to take into account various changes that have occurred over the years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the european order for payment procedure. the procedure was introduced to enable the recovery, quickly, simply and cheaply, of amounts arising from debts fixed in a fixed amount and due, which are not contested by the defendant. the data show that the procedure is generally implemented satisfactorily, but it is operating significantly below its full capacity. since i consider that the report gives a good presentation of the implementation of the european order for payment procedure, points out the key shortcomings in the implementation and makes reasoned suggestions for improving the procedure, i supported it.
in writing. not only does corruption weaken the european economy and thereby reduce the well-being of citizens according to european commission estimates from two years ago, corruption causes about €120 billion in damage to the european economy every year but it also leads to human rights violations through breaches of the law and abuses of power. given that the very nature of corrupt acts, which are usually covert and well-planned, often leaves people unaware of their human rights being violated, all the more care should be taken to raise awareness of people in cases where their fundamental rights are violated. we as a society must have zero tolerance for corruption.
in writing. the european commission presented a new package of measures at the end of november this year, entitled 'clean energy for all europeans'. the commission wants europe not only to adapt to the clean energy transition, but to take a leading role in this area, but unfortunately, given the contents of the package, this seems all the more unrealistic. what is of great concern to us is that the package is unfortunately a long way from the commitments made under the paris climate agreement, as many ngos and environmentalists have also pointed out. the increase in the energy efficiency improvement target from 27% to 30% is far too low and well below the request of the european parliament, which has already called for a binding 40% target by 2030. the package is also weak in the area of renewable energy sources, as maintaining the 27% renewable energy target is not ambitious enough and does not include binding national targets either. the continuation of fossil fuel subsidies is also a cause for concern. the package thus falls far short of the commission's promises and could even jeopardise eu action to combat climate change. i hope this is not another missed opportunity to take a step towards a greener, more sustainable and environmentally friendly future that we owe to our planet and future generations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the eu and the people's democratic republic of algeria on the one hand, and the framework agreement between the european union and the people's democratic republic of algeria on the other, on the general principles for the participation of the people's democratic republic of algeria in union programmes. i support cooperation between the european union and the countries in the eu's neighbourhood, which i believe will help to promote reform, modernisation and transition in the countries. algeria's participation in certain union programmes will thus contribute to the modernisation of the country itself in all areas. especially when we're talking about programs that provide access to financial aid.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the people's democratic republic of algeria, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the people's democratic republic of algeria on the general principles for the participation of the people's democratic republic of algeria in union programmes. under the enp-european neighbourhood policy, the gradual opening-up of certain union programmes and agencies to the cooperation of partner countries is one of the tools to promote reform, modernisation and transition. in 2013, algeria showed interest in participating in a wide range of programmes, opening up to the european neighbourhood policy partner countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the people’s democratic republic of algeria, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the people’s democratic republic of algeria on the general principles for the participation of the people’s democratic republic of algeria in union programmes. as part of the european neighbourhood policy (enp), the gradual opening-up of certain union programmes and agencies to the participation of enp partner countries represents one of many measures to promote reform, modernisation and transition in the european union’s neighbourhood. the objective of the protocol is to lay down the financial and technical rules enabling algeria to participate in certain union programmes. i voted in favour because i believe that the horizontal framework established by the protocol constitutes an economic, financial and technical cooperation measure which gives algeria access to assistance, in particular financial assistance, to be provided by the union pursuant to the union programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the people's democratic republic of algeria, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the people's democratic republic of algeria on the general principles for the participation of the people's democratic republic of algeria in union programmes. i support the approval of the conclusion of the protocol as it is a continuation of the implementation of the european neighbourhood policy. this policy includes political coordination and closer economic integration, increased mobility and people-to-people contacts. promoting sustainable democracy and inclusive economic development prevents the eu from becoming divided from its neighbours and enhances prosperity, stability and security for all.
in writing. ‒ i support the european parliament's legislative resolution confirming the council's position at first reading. the agreement achieves the key objective of ensuring the sustainable management and exploitation of deep-sea species, while minimising the impact of deep-sea fishing activities on the highly sensitive marine environment. it is essential to stress that the european union will freeze its fishing footprint by defining the area where deep-sea fishing will be allowed. this zone also includes the area in eu waters of the north-east atlantic where directed fishing took place between 2009 and 2011. this territorial limitation will apply to vessels fishing for deep-sea species, i.e. those where the catch of deep-sea species represents more than 8% of the total catch on at least one fishing trip per year. a depth limit of 800 metres is also established, which is important for the effective protection of sensitive deep-sea ecosystems. however, it is also important to agree that vessels caught fishing in sensitive marine ecosystems at a depth of more than 400 metres will have to cease their activities and set sail at least five nautical miles from the fishing area concerned. in order to ensure the collection of scientific data, 20% of the vessels will need to have a scientific observer on board. i hope that the content will now be followed by effective implementation in practice.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the proposal of the efdd group that the european parliament reject the council's position at first reading on the establishment of specific conditions for fishing for deep-sea stocks in the north-east atlantic and provisions on fishing in international waters of the north-east atlantic and repeal the council regulation. i support the compromises reached in the trilogue, such as the european union freezing its fishing footprint by defining the area where deep-sea fishing will be allowed. i also support the compromise to introduce specific penalties for vessels that violate the rules on deep-sea fishing and that no exceptions to certain rules will be possible.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down special conditions for fishing for deep-sea stocks in the north-east atlantic and provisions on fishing in international waters of the north-east atlantic and repealing council regulation (ec) no 2347/2002. the proposal aims to establish specific conditions for fishing for deep-sea stocks in the north-east atlantic and provisions for fishing in international waters of the north-east atlantic. deep-sea fishing is dominated by traditional coastal countries such as portugal and by large-scale trawlers from france and spain. together they account for 1% of landings from the north-east atlantic. they hunt mainly species that are slow to grow and are vulnerable to overexploitation (sea sword, eel, etc.). the european union will freeze its fishing footprint by defining an area where deep-sea fishing will be allowed. this new measure aims to improve the protection of sensitive deep-sea ecosystems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading in view of the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing specific conditions for fishing for deep-sea stocks in the north-east atlantic and provisions for fishing in international waters of the north-east atlantic and repealing council regulation (ec) no 2347/2002. according to the regulation, the european union is going to freeze its fishing footprint by specifying the area in which deep-sea fishing will be allowed. that area includes the area in which targeted fishing took place between 2009 and 2011 in eu waters in the north-east atlantic. parliament has secured specific penalties for vessels breaching the regulation on deep-sea fishing and a stipulation that no exemptions will be granted to certain rules. i voted in favour because i believe that, through this regulation, parliament has introduced new, stricter transparency rules by including obligations to make information available to the public on european vessels targeting deep-sea species and to report all catches.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down special conditions for fishing for deep-sea stocks in the north-east atlantic and provisions for fishing in international waters of the north-east atlantic and repealing council regulation (ec) no 2347/2002. i support the adoption of the council's position at first reading without further amendments, as it is in line with the agreement reached in the trilogues. the purpose of the proposal is to establish specific conditions for fishing for deep-sea stocks in the north-east atlantic and provisions for fishing in international waters of the north-east atlantic in order to enable sustainable fishing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the general revision of parliament's rules of procedure, which will lead to better functioning of parliament, clearer rules, greater transparency and protection of parliament from disruptive political elements seeking to sabotage its work. i also support the amendment of the rules to provide for stricter penalties for members for offensive, racist or xenophobic speech or actions that interfere with parliamentary activities. they may also be liable in some cases for such conduct by their staff.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a european parliament decision on a general revision of parliament's rules of procedure. the constitutional affairs committee (afco) has set up a working group to continue the review of the rules of procedure. the group consisted of eight people from different political groups. most of the proposed amendments were adopted unanimously. the proposals range from technical adaptations and simplifications to possible political changes to the current rules of procedure. the amendments to the rules of procedure have been made in strict accordance with the provisions of the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making. all necessary measures should be taken to adapt parliament's information systems to the revised rules of procedure without delay and to set up appropriate electronic tools, including for the follow-up of written questions to other union institutions. amendments to these rules of procedure shall enter into force on the first day of the part-session following their adoption (except for the article on the composition of the delegation).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the general revision of parliament’s rules of procedure. the report underlines that those amendments to the rules have taken due account of the provisions of the interinstitutional agreement of 13 april 2016 on better law-making. moreover, it draws attention to the need to reorganise the annexes to the rules of procedure so that they contain only texts that have the same legal value and are subject to the same procedural majority as the rules themselves, and annex vi which, although it requires a different procedure and a different majority for its adoption, consists of implementing measures of the rules. i voted in favour because the report requests that the other existing annexes and any additional texts which could be relevant for the work of the members, be re-grouped into a compendium which will accompany the rules.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the general revision of parliament's rules of procedure. the european parliament's work must become more transparent, democratic and interactive. i therefore support the reform of the rules of procedure to streamline and simplify the internal work of members and parliament, thus enabling the european parliament to exercise its legislative, budgetary, political control and consultation functions more effectively and efficiently.
in writing. ‒ the european union is a community founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, and the annual report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union is therefore of paramount importance. the report critically assesses the human rights situation in different areas, from the rights of women, children, minorities, disabled people, the elderly, lgbti rights, migrants and refugees, to discrimination in different areas, as well as rights related to the rule of law and so on. at a time when we are faced with growing inequality, poverty, still high unemployment, the spread of forms of precarious work, intolerance towards minorities, the erection of fences and walls, the erosion of social and labour rights, such reports are all the more relevant as they highlight the work that lies ahead. the key is that the report is not just a dead letter on paper, but that its content and, in particular, its recommendations are taken into account in practice. i strongly believe that it is the duty of our society, and thus of the european union as a whole, to ensure that human rights and dignity are guaranteed to all sections of our society, and i therefore strongly support the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union in 2015. not only does corruption weaken the european economy and thereby reduce the well-being of citizens - the european commission estimated two years ago that corruption causes about €120 billion in damage to the european economy every year - but it also leads to human rights violations through the violation of laws and the abuse of power. given that the very nature of corrupt acts, which are usually covert and well-planned, often leaves people unaware of their human rights being violated, all the more care should be taken to raise awareness of people in cases where their fundamental rights are violated. we as a society must have zero tolerance for corruption.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a european parliament resolution on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union in 2015. whereas it is essential to protect all fundamental rights, whereas the charter of fundamental rights of the european union is fully incorporated in the treaty and whereas fundamental rights are being violated in the eu and in the member states; the rule of law is the cornerstone of european liberal democracy and one of the fundamental principles of the european union. migration is part of the eu's present and future and one of the greatest challenges of our time, as it requires the eu and its member states to assume international humanitarian responsibility (at least 3771 migrants died in 2015 alone, according to statistics). terrorism has also become part of everyday life and is one of the worst violations of fundamental rights and freedoms, which is why europe must have the appropriate instruments to protect its citizens (the attack on charlie hebdo, the attempted attack on media freedom). human trafficking, a serious crime committed in the circles of organised crime an infringement of human dignity, is also on the rise. any form of discrimination and violence must also be condemned. fight against discrimination, xenophobia, hate crimes and hate speech, trafficking in human beings, terrorism, violence and advocate for freedom and equality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union in 2015. petitions to parliament serve as an important instrument for citizens to report alleged breaches of fundamental rights which they may have experienced in member states where they reside. the report considers that citizens expect the charter to ensure the protection of their fundamental rights by the institutions, bodies and agencies of the union and by the member states when they are implementing eu law. it equally underlines that a lack of protection and awareness of their rights under the charter could aggravate citizens’ disenchantment with the european project. it urges the adoption of new legislation aimed at combating energy poverty and welcomes previous initiatives at any administrative level in the direction of guaranteeing universal access to energy. i voted in favour because i believe that a genuine reform of the european citizens’ initiative and the effective operation of this instrument could do much to improve the union’s image.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union in 2015. at a time of rising euroscepticism and expression of extreme political beliefs, it is imperative that the eu and the member states show even more understanding and commitment to guaranteeing the fundamental rights of eu citizens, especially vulnerable groups children, women, the elderly, minorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on a coherent eu policy for the cultural and creative industries. in the current age of digitalisation, the existing cultural and creative industries face a major challenge to adapt to the significant developments in the field of digitalisation, while at the same time offering new opportunities for the development of new business models and market expansion. i therefore support the call in the report for the european commission to develop a comprehensive, coherent and long-term industrial policy framework for the cultural and creative sectors, while defining specific indicators for monitoring and analysing cultural, economic and social impact.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on a coherent eu policy for the cultural and creative industries. culture, art and creativity are shaping the image of europe. in europe in the 21st century, at the time of the transition to the digital economy, cultural and creative industries are increasingly replacing traditional production processes and value chains. the cultural and creative industries are industries based on cultural values and on the creativity, skills and talents of individuals, and can generate wealth and jobs by creating value from intellectual property (european culture has a history of more than 3000 years). around the world, the cultural and creative industries are considered to be a large and growing part of the global economy and create opportunities for new jobs. however, a genuine and coordinated industrial policy at eu level has not yet been established and a comprehensive industrial strategy is needed. the concept of 'cultural and creative industries' should be defined to ensure that it functions better. good international cooperation can also be achieved through culture. the cultural and creative industries play a key role in the reindustrialisation of europe, to drive growth and are strategically positioned to generate innovative spill-overs to other industrial sectors such as tourism, retail and digital technologies. europe could play a leading role in this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on a coherent eu policy for cultural and creative industries. in 21st -century europe, with the transition to the digital economy, cultural and creative industries are increasingly replacing traditional manufacturing processes and traditional value chains. all around the world, the cultural and creative sector is considered a major and growing part of the global economy. its importance as a generator of jobs and wealth is increasingly recognised, particularly so in the eu. moreover, culture, not only in its traditional forms, but also through cultural and creative industries, can play a crucial role in strengthening international partnerships. i voted in favour because i believe that the support of ccis should be made a policy priority within the esifs, horizon 2020, and the mff as a whole. in the horizon 2020 research programme and the structural funds, potential synergies existing between eu policies should be fully exploited. this would make it possible to effectively use the funding available under eu programmes and reach the goals they were designed for.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on a coherent eu policy for the cultural and creative industries. i support the report as it calls on the commission to develop a comprehensive, coherent and long-term legal framework for the cultural and creative sectors and to provide the appropriate means to increase competitiveness and thus enable the cultural and creative industries to fulfil their potential in terms of creating quality jobs and further development.
in writing. ‒ the report stresses that overall political stability and respect for human rights are essential conditions for strengthening women's rights and improving their situation in individual countries. the eastern partnership countries should take immediate action to increase gender equality in society, including through the adoption of national action plans and through cooperation with international organisations and civil society stakeholders. they should also work to close the gaps in their anti-discrimination frameworks and to apply more legislation to combat gender-based discrimination, taking into account international standards. this is very important, as the statistics reflect a very worrying situation. in the eastern partnership countries, women occupied only 17 out of 136 senior ministerial positions in 2015, their share of elected parliamentarians averaged 16%, and they occupied only 17% of senior public administration positions. it is also important that the report also addresses the fight against trafficking in human beings, where women are the most frequent victims. in this context, there is a need to strengthen cooperation between the eastern partnership countries on the one hand and eu agencies and member states' law enforcement authorities on the other. i also supported the report because i considered that it contained very important aspects.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on women's rights in the eastern partnership countries. there are large differences between the eastern partnership countries in terms of women's rights, but overall the rate of violence against women is still relatively high. i support the report which considers that the situation of women's rights in the eastern partnership countries needs to be improved, but at the same time sees the general political stability, respect for human rights and economic stability, which affects the economic position of women and is often the cause of inequality, as a necessary condition for strengthening women's rights.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on women's rights in the eastern partnership countries. stabilising neighbourhood countries is one of the key objectives of the european union's external policy and the european neighbourhood policy to ensure security, peace, stability and prosperity for all, and women have an important role to play in this. the eastern partnership was established in 2009 at the initiative of the eu (it comprises the countries of ukraine, belarus, azerbaijan, moldova, georgia and armenia). women are still neglected in these countries. they are under-represented in the political structural areas, the gender pay gap remains wide and all too often they are victims of violence or trafficking. the aim of this report is not to list shortcomings and failures in the protection of women's rights, but to highlight the obstacles to women's empowerment and how greater gender equality could contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the eastern partnership and the european neighbourhood policy. gender equality is an area where great progress could be made through enhanced cooperation between the eu and the eastern partnership countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the rights of women in the eastern partnership states. stabilisation of its neighbourhood is one of the key objectives of the european union’s foreign policy and of the european neighbourhood policy (enp) in order to ensure the security, peace, stability and prosperity of all. women play a crucial role towards it. the eastern partnership was launched in 2009 with the prague declaration, as a joint initiative between the eu, its member states and six eastern european and south caucasus partner countries: armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, the republic of moldova and ukraine. because the eastern partnership is based on the commitment to the principles of international law, fundamental values of democracy, the rule of law and human rights, one should not forget the importance of gender equality and women rights. however, women remain remarkably absent from the political structures of power, be it in the executive or in the parliamentary branch, mainly due to discriminatory practices. i voted in favour because the report does not aim at listing the lacks and failures in protecting women’s rights but rather at highlighting the barriers to women’s empowerment and how greater gender equality would help reaching the eap and enp objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on women's rights in the eastern partnership countries. the report assesses the situation of women in a number of key areas and finds that the eastern partnership countries still lag behind in the inclusion of women, in particular those in the poorest and most remote areas, and those belonging to marginalised groups, in equal access to centres of power and in the equal representation of women at all levels of governance and decision-making. this is why i support projects and programmes funded by the european neighbourhood instrument which are aimed at women's organisations in the eastern partnership countries and contribute to raising awareness and addressing the problems faced by women in these regions.
respected. the report on the state of human rights in the world, or more precisely on the violation of human rights in the world, was introduced in the european parliament as a potentially powerful tool of our common foreign and security policy. if the helsinki conference four decades ago, by shining a spotlight on human rights abusers, paved the way for a world-changing epoch, today we must self-critically acknowledge that in using this tool of soft political power, we are falling short of the possibilities and expectations. thus, despite its size, this report does not capture the dramatic moment our planet is in. we invoke human rights when they are violated by others, we refuse to declare peace as a fundamental value, we leave people alone when they fear the present and the future. the european union, when it comes to the sources of crises, wars, human rights violations, is caught in its own fragmentation, history and geostrategy. so our conditional generosity in the humanitarian field is not enough. colleagues, we will have to talk about human rights more concretely, with reference to international and humanitarian law. we must be on the side of the weak and the humiliated, not on the side of power and its abuse. thank you so much.
thank you, chairman, the esteemed mrs. mogherini. today, we heard in this hall the tragic story of the winners of the sakharov prize. i don't know what we were thinking, each in our own way. i asked myself how much responsibility i should take on, so that the countries that were their homelands would fall apart. we have a great responsibility. i therefore do not support the reports on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy for the following reasons: the concept of a common security policy is based on a linear increase in defence budgets and an arms race, it identifies a common enemy, it advocates the deepening of the cold war, it wants to respond to the propaganda of the opposing side with the same absurd methods. we talk about the three ds: diplomacy, development and defence, but we focus on the latter and neglect the possibilities and obligations of european diplomacy. peace and security can be achieved by pursuing common interests, respect for international law and political accountability in all eu countries, whether or not they are members of nato.
first of all, i would like to congratulate mrs delahaye on her excellent report and on her cooperation with the commission on this acute problem. unfair practices in the food chain are certainly one of the key problems we face today, and ultimately they bring profits to speculators and hard times to honest, hard-working farmers. so i propose that we put a label on products in europe to say, "is this fair trade?" it is not enough to talk about fair trade only for coffee coming from other continents, let us also ask ourselves whether european products, when, i do not know, milk is bought for 19 cents, 20 cents or any other product, are fair trade. the second important message from this report is that farmers also need to join forces and act more effectively, and thus also position themselves better in this particular market. it is likely that the future cap will also need to allocate more resources to these measures than we have today. i also strongly believe that we should do what the commissioner has already said, that we should support young farmers. these young farmers will bring new ideas to agriculture and to the marketing of these agricultural products, they will also create new opportunities for rural jobs, they will use modern technologies, digital platforms, they will also set up smart villages where new jobs will appear. we need to form a partnership between farmer and consumer, and then we can all fight.
the time to end the slaughter in aleppo is long past. we have failed as a collective to keep people safe. that's why i'm calling on the top to do everything possible to ease the situation. colleagues, we still lack effective measures to address the security and migration challenges. mr juncker, you mentioned your ambition to return to schengen. what arguments does neighboring austria still have for border control? i'm from slovenia. does the commission allow this? why would you do that? there are no causes. it's an unnecessary obstacle to our citizens' travel and has created a great deal of distress. moreover, it has created an atmosphere in my country that, if the refugees return, a third of slovenians will close the borders completely. it's the atmosphere she created. the lack of confidence in european solutions. and this distrust, which is growing not only in slovenia, worries me very much. we need an effective and humane european migration policy. i am sorry, but the proposal to renew the dublin reform is not a proposal that would revive solidarity and shared responsibility. on the contrary, the greatest burden will still be borne by the countries with an external border. not to mention the inability and lack of courage to open legal and safe pathways for refugees to europe. colleagues, the solution to the situation of migrants must go hand in hand with the strengthening of the economy and of jobs in europe. and in the circumstances that are swirling around us, we need a strong europe and the confidence of europeans.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council replacing the lists of insolvency proceedings and insolvency practitioners in annexes a and b to the insolvency procedure regulation. this is a purely technical and not a substantive amendment to the regulation, after poland informed the european commission at the end of 2015 that the reform of its domestic restructuring legislation would enter into force on 1 january 2016. it is precisely because of these legislative changes that we need to amend both annexes to the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council replacing the lists of insolvency proceedings and insolvency practitioners in annexes a and b to regulation (eu) 2015/848 on insolvency proceedings. it is an invitation to the commission to refer the matter back to parliament if it intends to amend its proposal substantially or to replace it with a different text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council replacing the lists of insolvency proceedings and insolvency practitioners in annexes a and b to regulation (eu) 2015/848 on insolvency proceedings. regulation (eu) 2015/848 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 may 2015 on insolvency proceedings entered into force on 26 june 2015. this regulation includes as annexes lists of insolvency proceedings and insolvency practitioners relevant to its application. the commission examined whether the request from poland complied with the requirements of the regulation and submitted a proposal to the european parliament and to the council with a view to ensuring that the scope of the recast regulation will be adjusted to the current legal framework of the polish insolvency legislation by the time of its application. i voted in favour because i believe that, in this context, the commission proposal is of a purely technical nature.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council replacing the lists of insolvency proceedings and insolvency practitioners in annexes a and b to regulation (eu) 2015/848 on insolvency proceedings. i support the commission's proposal, prepared at the request of poland, to amend the lists in annexes a and b to the regulation accordingly, in order to ensure that the scope of the revised regulation is aligned with the actual legal framework of the polish insolvency legislation until its application. the commission proposal is therefore purely technical and does not contain any substantive amendments to the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the eu and the republic of uzbekistan amending the agreement to extend the provisions of the agreement to bilateral trade in textiles, taking into account the expiry of the bilateral textiles agreement. i support the textile protocol amending the eu-uzbekistan partnership agreement, on the clear condition, of course, that the authorities in the republic of uzbekistan do not suspend the implementation of their commitment to the elimination of forced labour. we must give the international labour organisation all the support we can in the work related to the elimination of child and forced labour in uzbekistan.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part, amending the agreement to extend the provisions of the agreement to bilateral trade in textiles, taking into account the expiry of the bilateral textiles agreement. the european parliament has been asked to approve a protocol amending the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and uzbekistan, of the other part, to extend the provisions of that agreement to bilateral trade in textiles. the state would receive benefits such as trade without quantitative restrictions, the principle of free transit, trading at market prices, etc. uzbekistan has now completely eliminated child labour in cotton picking, but there is still too much forced labour with exploitative working conditions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part, amending the agreement in order to extend the provisions of the agreement to bilateral trade in textiles, taking account of the expiry of the bilateral textiles agreement. parliament is asked to give its consent to the protocol amending the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and its member states and the republic of uzbekistan extending the provisions of that agreement to bilateral trade in textiles. ratifying the textiles protocol would mean including textiles in the partnership and cooperation agreement (pca) concluded between uzbekistan and the eu in 1999. the report on the ilo’s last monitoring mission revealed that the practice of using child labour in cotton harvesting had been virtually eradicated. i voted in favour because i fully support the work done by the ilo to abolish forced labour in uzbekistan definitively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part, amending the agreement to extend the provisions of the agreement to bilateral trade in textiles, taking into account the expiry of the bilateral textiles agreement. according to the report of the last ilo observation mission, the competent authorities in uzbekistan have successfully implemented measures to eliminate child labour and have made several further commitments to gradually eliminate forced labour of adults, including the establishment of a feedback mechanism to respond to complaints from the population, the organisation of awareness-raising campaigns and the establishment of a programme to assess the implementation of international conventions in this field. i therefore support the approval of the protocol amending the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and uzbekistan, of the other part, to extend the provisions of that agreement to bilateral trade in textiles.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the non-legislative resolution on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the eu and the republic of uzbekistan, on the one hand, and the republic of uzbekistan, on the other, amending the agreement in order to extend the provisions of the agreement to bilateral trade in textiles, taking into account the expiry of the bilateral textiles agreement. we must give the international labour organisation full support in its work to monitor the cotton harvest and its cooperation with the uzbek government through the state decent work programme. in view of uzbekistan's efforts to eliminate forced labour, i support the eu-uzbekistan textile trade protocol.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a european parliament non-legislative resolution on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part, amending the agreement in order to extend the provisions of the agreement to bilateral trade in textiles, taking into account the expiry of the bilateral textiles agreement. the european parliament has been asked to approve a protocol amending the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and uzbekistan, of the other part, to extend the provisions of that agreement to bilateral trade in textiles. the state would receive benefits such as trade without quantitative restrictions, the principle of free transit, trading at market prices, etc. uzbekistan has now completely eliminated child labour in cotton picking but there is still too much forced labour with exploitative working conditions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report containing a motion for a non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part, amending the agreement in order to extend the provisions of the agreement to bilateral trade in textiles, taking account of the expiry of the bilateral textiles agreement. in december 2011 the european parliament decided to postpone its decision on consent to the eu-uzbekistan textiles protocol. the report stresses the importance of the action taken by the government of uzbekistan to authorise the ilo to monitor the cotton harvest and to engage in broad cooperation with ilo through a decent work country programme. moreover, it welcomes the substantial progress that has been made in uzbekistan since 2013, including the adoption of laws which prohibit the use of child labour. i voted in favour because i believe that only concrete evidence of substantial and measurable progress of uzbekistan allows parliament to give its consent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report with a motion for a non-legislative resolution on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part, amending the agreement in order to extend the provisions of the agreement to bilateral trade in textiles, taking into account the expiry of the bilateral textiles agreement. i support the deepening of the partnership and cooperation with uzbekistan, as the uzbek authorities are actively cooperating with the world organisation for labour in the elimination of forced and child labour and are working to uphold human rights and the rule of law in structural reforms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the protocol of accession to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of ecuador. i support ecuador's approach to the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement, which will deepen relations between the two signatories and allow ecuador to develop policies of sustainable economic and social development. assuming, of course, regular evaluations after consultation with the ecuadorian government and civil society.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the accession of the european union to the trade agreement with colombia and peru, on the other hand, to take account of the accession of ecuador. the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, was signed in brussels on 26 june 2012. ecuador is currently in a very bad economic situation due to the radical drop in oil prices by more than 60% and the overvaluation of the us dollar and the undervaluation of other currencies (colombia). in april of this year, a powerful earthquake shook ecuador, killing 672 people and injuring some 27,000. the cost of the renovation will be 3 billion, which will be an additional burden. by the end of the year, he'll lose his status as a beneficiary of the eu trade agreement, which will have a negative impact on the economy. it would be advisable for parliament to approve ecuador's accession to the trade agreement between the eu and its member states, on the one hand, and colombia and peru, on the other, as this is an important step forward in relations with ecuador, which has become an important and like-minded regional partner.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the protocol of accession to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of ecuador. i support ecuador's approach to the trade agreement with colombia and peru, as i believe that this will allow ecuador to continue its new direction of promoting policies of sustainable economic and social development. on the other hand, the eu will bring an alliance with a new trading partner with a promising fast-growing economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on reciprocal access to fishing in the skagerrak for vessels flying the flag of denmark, norway and sweden. i support a new agreement between the eu and norway, replacing the old agreement from which norway withdrew. the new agreement will continue to give denmark, norway and sweden exclusive access to the waters of all three countries, and at the same time all member states will have reciprocal access to the respective waters of the other parties in the skagerrak and kattegat.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on reciprocal access to fishing in the skagerrak for vessels flying the flag of denmark, norway and sweden. swedish, danish and norwegian fishermen have been fishing together in these waters for the same stock since at least the middle ages. the fishing tradition is older than the founding of the state and it is important to respect the historical fishing rights. the agreement between denmark, norway and sweden on mutual access to the skagerrak and kattegat fisheries entered into force on 7 august 1967 and was extended in 2002 until 2012. the new agreement continues to grant danish, norwegian and swedish vessels exclusive access to the waters of all three countries beyond four nautical miles from the baselines. it shall ensure permanent mutual access of both member states and norway to the relevant waters of the other parties in the skagerrak and kattegat, as well as prudent measures for the conservation and management of fisheries in the area. in addition, it allows for control measures in accordance with the principles of the normal jurisdiction of coastal states, which already apply to fisheries in the north sea.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on reciprocal access to fishing in the skagerrak for vessels flying the flag of denmark, norway and sweden. i support the new agreement, as it continues to give danish, norwegian and swedish vessels exclusive access to the waters of all three countries beyond four nautical miles from the baselines, while providing for prudent measures to conserve and manage fisheries in this area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on reciprocal access to fishing in the skagerrak for vessels flying the flag of denmark, norway and sweden. i support the call on the commission to forward to parliament the minutes and conclusions of all consultations and a comprehensive report on the implementation of the agreement during the last year of its validity and before the start of negotiations for its renewal. the resolution also rightly stresses that the commission must ensure that customs duties on eu food and fishery products are not imposed in a manner contrary to the principles of free trade in food, including fishery products.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a european parliament non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on reciprocal access to fishing in the skagerrak for vessels flying the flag of denmark, norway and sweden. swedish, danish and norwegian fishermen have been fishing together in these waters for the same stock since at least the middle ages. the fishing tradition is older than the founding of the state and it is important to respect the historical fishing rights. the agreement between denmark, norway and sweden on mutual access to the skagerrak and kattegat fisheries entered into force on 7 august 1967 and was extended in 2002 until 2012. the new agreement continues to grant danish, norwegian and swedish vessels exclusive access to the waters of all three countries beyond four nautical miles from the baselines. it shall ensure permanent mutual access of both member states and norway to the relevant waters of the other parties in the skagerrak and kattegat, as well as prudent measures for the conservation and management of fisheries in the area. in addition, it allows for control measures in accordance with the principles of the normal jurisdiction of coastal states, which already apply to fisheries in the north sea.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report with a motion for a non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on reciprocal access to fishing in the skagerrak for vessels flying the flag of denmark, norway and sweden. i support the conclusion of the agreement as it recognises the historical fishing rights of fishermen from denmark, norway and sweden in the kattegat and skagerrak without prejudice to the rights of fishermen from other countries, while also ensuring that appropriate measures are taken to manage and conserve fisheries in these waters. the agreement also supports the implementation of the reformed eu fisheries management system established in line with the objectives and basic principles of the new common fisheries policy, in particular the introduction of landing obligations and mandatory measures to maintain fish stocks above levels that allow maximum sustainable yields to be achieved.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by europol of the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between georgia and the european police office (europol). i support the approval of operational and strategic cooperation between georgia and europol, which will include the exchange of operational, strategic, technical or classified information. closer cooperation between georgia and europol is also important from the point of view of combating terrorism and organised crime, as georgia is a transit country.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion of the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between georgia and the european police office (europol) by europol. europol's operational cooperation with ukraine appears to be essential. according to europol, georgia is becoming increasingly important in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, in particular as a transit country for so-called foreign fighters and an important partner in the fight against georgian organised crime groups. in this respect, the conclusion of this agreement on strategic and operational cooperation with georgia would contribute to and strengthen the fight against terrorism and organised crime, which by definition is international.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by europol of the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between georgia and the european police office (europol). according to europol, georgia is becoming increasingly important in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, in particular as a transit country for so-called foreign fighters and an important partner in the fight against georgian organised crime groups. in this context, i believe that the conclusion of a strategic and operational cooperation agreement with georgia would contribute to and strengthen the fight against terrorism and organised crime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, the role of spain the automotive industry. the contribution of spain is complete, such that spain is entitled to a financial contribution of eur 856 800 for the reintegration of 250 redundant workers into the labour market in the automotive industry in the comunidad valenciana region. the decline in car production has led to a significant reduction in the number of companies and jobs in spain, and in the comunidad valenciana many car companies have closed down their activities in the last 8 years.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a european parliament resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (spain's role egf/2016/004 ec/comunidad valenciana, automotive industry). the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows. on 8 november 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf in favour of spain to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by the bankruptcy and closure of bosal s.a. the company operated from 1986 until 2015, when it declared bankruptcy. its main activity was the production of parts and accessories for motor vehicles. the company ran into trouble after the automotive industry production slump.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). i agree that spain is entitled to a financial contribution of eur 856 800 from the egf to enable the reintegration into the labour market of 250 redundant workers who, because of their age and low level of education, have difficulties in finding employment.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has proposed to repeal regulation (eec) no 1192/69 on common rules for the normalisation of the accounts of railway undertakings, which allows member states to compensate railway undertakings for the payment of liabilities which are not covered by undertakings in other modes of transport. these obligations relate, for example, to special payments in the event of accidents at work, which railway undertakings are obliged to pay, whereas for other modes of transport they are paid by the state, to pensions for railway workers who perform heavy work and usually retire early, or to payments of costs for road-railway crossing facilities. the regulation was adopted before the liberalisation of the rail services market, when rail transport in europe was developing mainly within national borders, with integrated undertakings providing rail services and also managing rail infrastructure. the regulation on the numerous railway packages that have transformed the railway sector is no longer compatible with the current legal environment, as it differentiates between railway undertakings that are listed (and thus entitled to compensation) and undertakings that are not listed. i agree that the regulation is outdated and its wording is discriminatory, as only 40 companies listed in the annexes to the regulation have the possibility of being compensated, and i therefore support the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the amendment to reject the council's first reading position on common rules for the normalisation of railway company accounts. the proposal to repeal the regulation on common rules for the standardisation of accounts of railway undertakings is part of the market pillar of the fourth railway package. this will enable member states to compensate railway undertakings for the payment of liabilities which other transport undertakings do not have to cover. the regulation is no longer compatible with the current legal environment.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council repealing council regulation (eec) no 1192/69 on common rules for the normalisation of the accounts of railway undertakings. as the commission states in its proposal, the regulation is no longer compatible with the current legal environment and has submitted a proposal for its repeal. the report agrees with that. it also agrees that the current text of the regulation is discriminatory, since only 40 companies listed in the annexes to the regulation are eligible for compensation. therefore, this regulation cannot be maintained unless the list of railway undertakings is kept up to date. negotiations were under way to resolve the problem. member states should respect all prior acts and implement the measures provided for in the directive without delay.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council repealing council regulation (eec) no 1192/69 on common rules for the normalisation of the accounts of railway undertakings. regulation (eec) no 1192/69 is no longer compatible with the current legal environment following the numerous railway packages that have transformed the railway sector, as it discriminates between railway undertakings which are listed (and thus entitled to compensation) and undertakings which are not listed.
in writing. ‒ the proposed amendments seek to improve the quality of rail passenger services and increase their operational efficiency. this should mean a greater competitiveness and attractiveness of the railway sector compared to other modes of transport and a step forward in the development of the single european railway area. but unfortunately, the report contains too many flaws to support it on my own. the proposed new rules provide that public service contracts in railway transport must be awarded on the basis of competitive tendering procedures. however, the regulation contains a number of exceptions to this principle and allows contracts to be concluded directly or by a simplified procedure in a number of cases, which means that member states will be able to maintain their national systems over time. i also find it problematic that the regulation does not include a provision on the establishment of binding criteria in public service contracts, when it comes to strengthening environmental and social aspects, as well as on the establishment of a minimum quality of public services. we also wanted a stronger text on passenger rights, social and employment conditions and accessibility, but this was not achieved. for all the reasons i have mentioned, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the regulation on the opening of the internal market for rail passenger services. this amendment to the regulation, which forms part of the market pillar of the fourth railway package, will improve the quality of rail passenger services and increase their operational efficiency. i support increasing the competitiveness of the railway sector compared to other modes of transport. this will be an important step in the development of a single european railway area.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1370/2007 as regards the opening of the internal market for rail passenger services. the overall objective of the commission proposal amending regulation (ec) no 1370/2007 is to improve the quality of rail passenger services and increase their operational efficiency. this should mean a greater competitiveness and attractiveness of the railway sector compared to other modes of transport and a step forward in the development of the single european railway area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1370/2007 as regards the opening of the internal market for rail passenger services. i support the commission's proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1370/2007 as i believe it contains concrete measures and solutions to improve the quality of rail passenger services and increase their operational efficiency. the measures, which represent a step forward in the development of the single european railway area, will bring about a greater competitiveness of the railway sector compared to other modes of transport.
in writing. ‒ the so-called 'management' directive aimed to open up the internal rail passenger services market to increase competitive pressure on internal rail services markets in order to increase the volume and improve the quality of passenger services and to improve the management by the infrastructure manager to ensure equal access to the infrastructure. i regret to say that the directive contains too many shortcomings to be able to support it myself. a european network of infrastructure managers is established to exchange best practices, monitor implementation and address cross-border bottlenecks. unfortunately, this is all that remains of our proposal to set up a european regulatory authority with the power to deal with the many cross-border issues and problems. the directive also provides for the development of common information and ticketing systems to enable more efficient multimodal and cross-border passenger transport, with the commission monitoring developments and preparing a report to parliament and the council by 2022 and, if necessary, accompanying it with legislative proposals, for which no deadline is provided. the european parliament called for the establishment of such a system by 2019 for all public passengers on railways at first reading, but unfortunately this is not taken into account here. so there are too many flaws.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending the directive on the opening of the internal market for rail passenger services and the management of railway infrastructure. i welcome the achievement of the european parliament in the interinstitutional negotiations, which has, inter alia, led to the establishment of safeguards to ensure the impartiality and independence of infrastructure managers, while at the same time member states should establish a national framework for the assessment of conflicts of interest.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2012/34/eu as regards the opening of the internal market for rail passenger services and the management of railway infrastructure. the objectives of the commission's proposal are: opening up the market for domestic rail passenger services to increase competitive pressure on domestic rail passenger services markets, to increase the volume and improve the quality of passenger services and to improve the management by the infrastructure manager to ensure equal access to the infrastructure. the aim is to make rail passenger transport more attractive. improved railway activity has increased the demand for trained railway workers and facility managers to provide rail services, as well as the demand for rolling stock, thereby creating new jobs in the railway manufacturing industry.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2012/34/eu as regards the opening of the internal market for rail passenger services and the management of railway infrastructure. the proposed measures of the amended directive 2012/34/eu will increase competition and ensure financial transparency and fair financing conditions. increased competition and specialisation of market participants should also have a positive impact on productivity and efficiency and lead to more investment in railway infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ the european union's trade with the rest of the world and within the single market is highly dependent on ports. ports are the gateway for 74% of imported or exported goods and 37% of intra-union trade. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to take a decision on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in the area of employment. the new rules will not bring about changes to existing structures in the larger and northern ports. the text also lacks sufficient persuasiveness and is merely a means of saving face for the commission, which has already lost two port parcels and simply cannot afford to do so any longer. the whole sector agrees that it would be much more important to regulate the area of state aid to ports, something that the commission promised 12 years ago and never did. i'm afraid this package doesn't cover that, either. in the green/eea group we also sought to include strong environmental criteria and a clear commitment to respect eu legislation in this area in the regulations, but this was rejected. for all the reasons i have just given, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for market access to port services and financial transparency for ports. i support the amendments which, among other things, emphasise that ports can contribute to the long-term competitiveness of european industry on world markets, while increasing value added and employment in all coastal regions of the union. in this light, it is therefore essential to simplify administrative procedures for customs clearance in order to reduce delays in ports, which are often a significant obstacle to the competitiveness and efficiency of union ports.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for market access to port services and financial transparency for ports. the commission proposal aims to contribute to the overall objective of a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable operation of the ten-t network by creating a framework that improves the capacity of all ports and helps them to cope with changing traffic and logistical requirements. the aim is to modernise ports and create conditions that will attract investment and increase their service.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for market access to port services and financial transparency for ports. i support the aim of the proposal for a regulation, which is to increase the transparency of the financial relationship between the state, ports and port service providers. i believe that this will contribute to a better use of public funds and to a more consistent respect for the rules of eu competition law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the appointment of mr johan parts as a member of the court of auditors. at the hearing before the committee on budgetary control, the candidate juhan parts from latvia answered all the questions put to him in a satisfactory manner. i welcome the candidate's commitment to transparency of decisions and reporting, so that it is equally clear to all what the commission and the member states' institutions should have achieved and what they have actually achieved. it is the only way to improve financial management in the public service. taxpayers have every right to know that their money has been used in the best possible way.
in writing. - in voting on the appointment of the member of the court of auditors, mr johan parts, i voted in good faith.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision amending the council decision adopting the research programme of the research fund for coal and steel and the multiannual technical guidelines for that programme. i support the proposed amendments which emphasise the importance of the coal and steel sectors in the process of european integration and their role in the union industry. i support companies taking into account the legal requirements of social responsibility, while finding final solutions to reduce the social consequences of transition or closure. working conditions in this sector are demanding and often harm the health of workers and citizens
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a council decision amending council decision 2008/376/ec adopting the research programme of the research fund for coal and steel and the multiannual technical guidelines for that programme. the eu has been supporting coal and steel research for more than 50 years. it began with the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community, signed in 1951. it ceased operations in 2002 and the funds were made available to the research fund for coal and steel (administered by the european commission) - a fund complementary to horizon 2020. the commission proposed to amend the legal basis following the regular evaluation of the management rules in order to achieve the following objectives: to facilitate access to funding and to ensure that the commission manages the programme with all the necessary transparency and in accordance with its rules on expert groups. a slight concern about the implications of the updated rules for the research fund for coal and steel.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision amending council decision 2008/376/ec adopting the research programme of the research fund for coal and steel and the multiannual technical guidelines for that programme. the coal and steel sector is important in the process of european integration and plays a key role in the union industry. the aim of this proposal is to amend the legal basis, following a regular evaluation of the governance rules, in order to, inter alia, facilitate access to funding through simplified rules and thus enable beneficiaries to participate in both research programmes (the research fund for coal and steel and horizon 2020). the research programmes financed deal with production processes, resource exploitation and conservation, environmental improvements and occupational safety in these sectors.
in writing. ‒ the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy on human rights and democracy for 2015 expresses serious concern at the threat to the protection of human rights and democratic values worldwide and the undermining of the universality of human rights in many parts of the world, including under authoritarian regimes and through the activities of terrorist groups such as daesh. it calls on all eu institutions and member states to fulfil their commitments to promote democracy and the rule of law, and to protect and uphold human rights and fundamental freedoms. it is also important to condemn the attacks on journalists, judges, prosecutors, as well as environmental and human rights activists around the world, which we unfortunately still see very frequently. the report also takes the clear view that the european union must give human rights a central place in its relations with all third countries, including strategic partners, and it is important that the same commitment is shown in both internal and external policies. i am also pleased that the report is sufficiently progressive and includes strong parts on areas such as lgbti rights, combating all forms of discrimination, trafficking in human beings, migration, sexual and reproductive rights, environmental migration, freedom of expression online, support for human rights defenders, etc. for all that, i also supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy on the matter for 2015. we must not allow the protection of fundamental human rights and democratic values in many parts of the world to be threatened by the activities of terrorist groups such as isis. i support the call in the annual report for all eu institutions and member states to deliver on their commitments to promote democracy and the rule of law, to protect and uphold human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the right to development through peaceful means, and to place human rights at the heart of the eu's relations with all third countries, including strategic partners, and at all levels.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a european parliament resolution on the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy on the matter for 2015. the european union is committed to a common foreign and security policy and to a policy of external action based on democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms. there are still attempts to restrict the space for civil society, to restrict freedom of expression and assembly. the purposeful human rights dialogue should be supported as a successful and effective tool for bilateral cooperation. we can still be concerned about the continuing violence and persecution and the high levels of intolerance and discrimination against religious beliefs and minorities around the world. interfaith dialogue should be launched and protection should be provided to minorities, including those in the middle east (yazidis, christians, muslim minorities - who are persecuted by various terrorist groups). in the field of human rights, we must pay particular attention to women, children, the disabled and the elderly. conflicts and wars are the main causes of migration and displacement. a comprehensive approach could lead to sustainable, long-term and coordinated solutions based on international human rights standards (differentiating between refugees and migrants). trade and human rights must go hand in hand.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy on the matter for 2015. i supported the report because i believe it highlights key areas of challenge in the area of human rights, especially for the most vulnerable groups such as children, the elderly, people with special needs and members of minorities. the report also highlights the importance of implementing and protecting international human rights standards in current armed conflicts and in countries with unstable political and economic conditions.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, the european union has faced unprecedented internal and external challenges, including interstate conflicts, state collapse, terrorism, hybrid threats, cyber and energy insecurity, organised crime and climate change. the eu will only be able to respond effectively to all these new challenges if its structures and member states engage in a joint and truly coordinated effort within the framework of a common foreign and security policy, which must be clearly defined if it is to be successful. while i welcome the report's view that no member state can overcome the current challenges on its own and that member states must show a sufficient level of unity, political will and mutual trust, i am critical of the fact that the text of the resolution is unfortunately still too weakly worded. the strategy of the common foreign and security policy reflected in the resolution is not sufficiently clear, and the resolution contains several controversial and flawed parts. it calls, inter alia, on member states to increase their defence spending in order to meet nato's capability objectives, which require that at least 2% of gdp be devoted to defence, which would of course have an impact on member states' public finances. since the text of the resolution simply contains more questions than answers, i did not support the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy. as we agreed in the opinion of the committee on budgets, we can all be concerned that less than one third of all available funds were spent on the common foreign and security policy in 2015, which is unusual given the scale of international conflicts that also threaten the european union. i also support the opinion of the committee on budgets, which calls on the member states to meet the 2% of gdp criteria for national defence spending, as slovenia does, and at the same time to invest more thoughtfully in their defence capabilities in order to improve their ability to operate in nato and the eu.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a european parliament resolution on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy. the european union is facing unprecedented internal and external challenges, including interstate conflicts, state collapse, terrorism, hybrid threats, cyber and energy insecurity, organised crime and climate change. he's facing terrorist threats even on his own turf. europe can only respond effectively if its structures and member states work together. it is a wise intention to draw up an operational plan for security and defence. we are surrounded by unstable hotspots (middle east, africa, russia) with direct consequences for the well-being and security of eu citizens. this is now an opportunity for the eu to improve its action and cooperation (common foreign policy, combating disinformation, strengthening defence...). the eu needs to strengthen its security and defence capabilities, as it will only be able to realise its full potential as a global power if it accompanies its unrivalled soft power with hard power as part of the eu's comprehensive approach. sustainable development is one of the three pillars on which eu foreign policy must operate, alongside defence and diplomacy, and it is difficult to strengthen the market without security and stability. a solution to the conflict in syria must be found as soon as possible, including with the help of turkey as a partner.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy. the eu is now surrounded by a series of hotbeds of instability, with much of the middle east and north africa engulfed in ethnic and religious conflicts and wars involving the larger powers indirectly, and terrorist groups spreading throughout the region. the report i supported analyses comprehensively the current state and challenges of international affairs and the role of the eu. the internal and external security challenges are complex. an effective security policy is only possible with the cooperation and political will of all member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the instruments of the common agricultural policy to reduce price volatility on agricultural markets. i support the initiatives of the committee on budgets, which in its opinion calls, inter alia, for better synergies between the common agricultural policy and other eu policies, in particular those relating to energy, water supply, land use, biodiversity and ecosystems, and the development of remote and mountainous areas, while also calling for greater transparency of agricultural markets, making price information available to all stakeholders, including consumers.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a european parliament resolution on the instruments of the common agricultural policy to reduce price volatility on agricultural markets. european farmers are increasingly exposed to a variety of risks, as they are dependent on biological processes, climate change and the various impacts of plant and animal diseases (natural processes that cannot be controlled). the volatility of market prices is a major problem for farmers. the original instrument included price regulation, i.e. farmers would receive a guaranteed minimum price despite the crisis. the third cycle began in agriculture with the 2013 reform which defined the common agricultural policy for the period 2014-2020 (cycle i. starting with the 1992 agenda 2000, cycle ii. starting with the 2003 fischler reform). these reforms have gradually brought the cap closer to the market. the volatility of agricultural product prices is one of the main reasons for the catastrophic situation faced by many european farmers at the moment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the instruments of the common agricultural policy to reduce price volatility on agricultural markets. the agricultural sector is increasingly exposed to price volatility, due to a variety of causes, such as the instability and imperfection of agricultural markets, the increasing globalisation and development of agricultural markets, the increased volatility of supply due to climate unpredictability, the increased health risks and the uncertain balance of food supply. the report i supported therefore advocates a more determined and coordinated policy with targeted instruments at eu and national level to ensure multi-purpose, sustainable agricultural production throughout the union at fair and profitable prices.
there are probably good reasons why greece is in the situation it is in today. i believe that irresponsible politicians have also put her in that position, and today people are suffering the consequences of those decisions. i am pleased that the statistics show that greece has nevertheless been doing better in recent years, that the necessary reforms have been made. yet, despite all these reforms, people continue to live worse and worse. there's probably a few more things that need to be done. it will be necessary to realize that the state will never succeed in bringing a good life to the people if it makes reforms for others. the state must make reforms for itself and responsible politics makes them for the betterment of its citizens. greece should do the same. the president replied to the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. because i think the answer is never so simple that you can point the finger at just one person or one government. the situation in greece today is the result of a pattern of unfaithfulness that goes back a long way. and i think we should be very aware of this if we want, or if greece wants, to find a solution. you don't have to look at the past, you have to look at the future.
today's debate is not a debate against poland, but for poland to correct its course and become a country for all its inhabitants again. i support the action of the european commission. vice president timmermans, is this going to be okay? i will never be silent when governments like poland, blatantly but without consequence, violate many of the rights of their citizens. poland is moving further away from democratic values, and the violation of women's rights and the role of women in society is becoming more and more evident. the situation is worsening with the media becoming more manipulative and the rise of far-right extremism and hate crimes becoming more visible. the rule of law is deteriorating. colleagues, today's debate is not against the poles, but against the current polish government, and it is a debate that will require attention tomorrow at the council of the european union. (the speaker said the last sentence in english)
on behalf of the s&d group. thank you, mr president, and first of all, thank you to the rapporteur, mr de mery, for the excellent negotiations that have safeguarded the interests of the european parliament and all european citizens. and it also opened the door for georgians and ukrainians to get visa-free travel soon. ladies and gentlemen, the union's visa policy is one of the most tangible and concrete instruments of european foreign policy. at least, that's how it was in the past. i remember the tremendous emotion of the people of the western balkans when we were able to get their visas lifted. today, this same visa policy is losing its appeal as a result of continuous tightening. on the one hand, additional criteria, including political ones, for visa waiver and new measures such as the introduction of smart borders or etias. on the other hand, the continuing threat of visa reintroduction has made it possible to re-introduce the suspension mechanism. my dear commissioner! the second key aspect of the european visa policy is reciprocity. the european union must also have the courage to act when it comes to the question of reciprocity. today, the commission still allows the second-class citizens of as many as five eu member states to deliberately violate its own rules. in parliament, we will monitor closely the implementation of the new rules and take decisive action in the event of abuse.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the regulation on the list of third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement (amendment of the detention mechanism). i support the amendment that the commission should monitor the situation in these third countries and report regularly to the european parliament and the council. we will thus ensure the continuous fulfilment of specific criteria relating, inter alia, to illegal immigration, public order and security, economic benefits, in particular in the field of tourism and external trade.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 539/2001 listing the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement (change of detention mechanism). visa policy is one of the key eu issues, affecting external action as well as internal security. it is important to this extent that its management is clearly defined as a shared competence of the co-legislators under the ordinary procedure. the evolution of the political and migration situation, in particular following the successive visa liberalisation procedures, requires a revision of the detention mechanism in order to make it more effective and flexible. it is necessary to introduce elements that will enable the eu to respond rapidly to sudden increases in the number of irregular migrants from third countries, unfounded asylum applications, refused readmission applications and security threats on european territory.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 539/2001 listing the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement (amendment of the detention mechanism). visa policy is one of the key eu issues, affecting external action as well as internal security. the evolution of the political and migration situation, in particular following the successive visa liberalisation procedures, requires a revision of the detention mechanism in order to make it more effective and flexible. such flexibility must, of course, be accompanied by a robust set of human rights safeguards and measures, and by reports and statistics provided by european agencies and competent law enforcement bodies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft motion for a resolution on the draft commission implementing directive amending annexes i to v to the council directive on protective measures against the introduction into the community of organisms harmful to plants or plant products and against their spread within the community. i agree that the draft commission implementing directive is not in line with union law, as it is not in line with the objective of the regulation. it states, inter alia, that the phytosanitary risks posed by any species, variety or biotype of pathogenic organisms, animals or parasitic plants which cause harm to plants or plant products should be identified. in addition, measures to reduce risks to acceptable levels should be laid down.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the draft commission implementing directive amending annexes i to v to council directive 2000/29/ec on protective measures against the introduction into the community of organisms harmful to plants or plant products and against their spread within the community. the draft commission implementing directive is not in accordance with union law as it is not consistent with the objective of regulation (eu) 2016/2031, namely to identify the phytosanitary risks posed by any species, variety or biotype of pathogenic organisms, animals or parasitic plants which cause harm to plants or plant products (harmful organisms) and the measures to reduce those risks to an acceptable level. in this respect, it would recall that regulation (eu) 2016/2031 will repeal and replace directive 2000/29/ec as soon as it enters into force (14 december 2019).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution of 15 december 2016 on the draft commission implementing directive amending annexes i to v to council directive 2000/29/ec on protective measures against the introduction into the community of organisms harmful to plants or plant products and against their spread within the community. the resolution concludes that the draft commission implementing directive is not in accordance with union law as it is not in line with the objective of regulation (eu) 2016/2031, namely to identify the phytosanitary risks posed by any species, variety or biotype of pathogenic organisms, animals or parasitic plants which cause harm to plants or plant products (harmful organisms) and the measures to reduce those risks to an acceptable level. i therefore consider that the proposals put forward by the commission to remedy this inconsistency are necessary.
in writing. ‒ thalidomide is a sedative and hypnotic drug that first appeared as a medicine in west germany in the 1950s. it was marketed as a safe drug to treat morning sickness, headache, cough, insomnia, and colds, but its use during pregnancy has caused the death and deformity of thousands of babies. documents from that time testify to the very poor pharmaceutical control in west germany. unfortunately, the evidence also confirms that the state intervened in the criminal proceedings against the german producer of thalidomide, which did not allow for a proper finding of its culpability for the consequences that had occurred, and also prevented civil proceedings, which therefore did not satisfy the right to a trial, and thus did not provide the survivors with adequate financial compensation. the resolution calls on the member states and the commission to coordinate activities and measures for the official recognition and compensation of survivors, thereby facilitating their healthcare and enabling a better quality of life. research shows that survivors require a lot of support due to specific health needs and have difficulty with mobility and independent living, as they have suffered many consequences that they face on a daily basis, and most of them have not had adequate care since birth. i myself supported the resolution for all these reasons.
in writing. - i voted for a joint resolution on aid to thalidomide victims. member states and the european commission should coordinate activities and measures to formally recognise and provide compensation to survivors. thalidomide was introduced in the 1950s as a safe and effective treatment for morning sickness in pregnant women. however, a number of adverse effects for pregnant women were soon observed, reflected in various deformities in the children of mothers taking thalidomide during pregnancy. i therefore also support the call on the commission to create a framework protocol at european level, whereby all european citizens affected by thalidomide will be entitled to appropriate compensation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament resolution on aid for thalidomide victims. thalidomide is a medicine that was marketed by chemie grünenthal gmbh in the late 1950s and early 1960s. it's supposed to cure morning sickness, pneumonia, colds and headaches. in pregnant women who took it, it caused a high number of newborn deaths and birth defects. recent reports in germany and the united kingdom indicate that survivors of thalidomide need to improve their quality of life, as their bodies are weakened and disabled by the drug's effects. in an open letter, the chairs of the european parliament's political groups supported the efforts to help thalidomide survivors. now is the ideal opportunity to mitigate and correct past wrongs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on aid to victims of thalidomide. recently published independent reports in germany and the united kingdom conclude that thalidomide survivors need more support for their health needs, mobility and independent living, because their health is rapidly deteriorating due to the type of disability and because they have not received adequate support all the time since birth. i therefore support the call on the member states and the commission to coordinate action and measures for the formal recognition and compensation of surviving victims of thalidomide as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the paediatric medicines regulation came into force in 2007 and its aim was to improve children's health in europe by promoting the development and increased accessibility of medicines for children up to the age of 17. the regulation has made some progress, but it is still too slow and inadequate in many areas, especially in the field of paediatric oncology and neonatology. cancer remains the number one cause of death by disease in children over one year of age, and about 6000 children and young people die of cancer every year in europe. the regulation also provided for several incentives to enable the pharmaceutical industry to invest more in research and development, but these incentives were often abused by pharmaceutical companies and therefore did not produce the results expected. the resolution therefore calls on the commission to submit a report on the implementation and application of the paediatric medicines regulation by january 2017, as also provided for in article 50 of this regulation. this report should provide a comprehensive identification and in-depth analysis of the barriers currently hampering innovation in paediatric medicinal products. in the light of these findings, the commission should examine possible amendments, including a legislative review of the regulation, which appears to be necessary. for all these reasons, i supported the resolution in plenary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the question for oral answer on the regulation on paediatric medicinal products. the resolution rightly calls on the commission to consider introducing changes, including a legislative revision of the paediatric medicines regulation, which will take into account paediatric development plans, disease and drug priority models, earlier and more feasible paediatric investigation plans, better incentives for research that more effectively serves the needs of the paediatric population, while ensuring an assessment of the cost of research and development and full transparency of clinical outcomes, and strategies to prevent the misuse of medicines in the field of paediatric treatment, where there are already approved paediatric medicines. however, although the regulation has helped to improve the overall situation, unfortunately, in many areas, not enough progress has been made.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament resolution on paediatric medicines. the paediatric regulation has had a significant impact on paediatric drug development, as most pharmaceutical companies consider paediatric development to be an essential part of overall product development. but there is still a lack of progress in the field of oncology, because cancer is still the leading cause of death in children. many cancers occur only in children and not in adults. and so far, only two innovative cancer drugs have been approved based on pediatric research, targeting malignancies in pediatric patients. new drug trials and new medicines could have life-saving benefits and it is therefore necessary to ensure the best available treatment methods and thus to allow the optimal use of research funds. the commission should consider introducing amendments, including a legislative review of the paediatric medicines regulation, on the basis of the findings of the report. it would be prudent to renew the provisions in horizon 2020 on funding designed to support high-quality paediatric clinical research. the role of european networking for paediatric clinical research should be strengthened and it should be ensured that member states implement measures to support the research, development and availability of medicinal products for paediatric use.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the regulation on paediatric medicines. research in paediatrics to develop effective medicines is very limited and scanty. i therefore support calls on the commission to strengthen the role of the european paediatric clinical research network and to provide funding sources to support the research, development and availability of paediatric medicines in the areas where they are most needed, in particular in the field of paediatric oncology and neonatology.
in writing. ‒ the right to petition is one of the fundamental rights of european citizens and residents and is enshrined in the treaty and the charter of fundamental rights of the union. the purpose of the annual activity report of the committee on petitions is to present an analysis of the petitions received in 2015 and of the relations with the other institutions and to provide an overview of the objectives achieved in 2015. in 2015, 1431 petitions were received, 943 of which were admissible, of which 424 were swiftly examined and closed. unfortunately, it appears that the vast majority of eu citizens are still not familiar with this tool, which can help the european institutions and the member states to raise awareness of issues and pressing problems that concern them and fall within the eu's sphere of action, and more needs to be done to promote it. i also welcome the part of the report which stresses that petitions are an alternative and independent means of investigation and verification of compliance with eu law and that this procedure is not excluded from proceedings before national courts, which is very important for citizens. the report also recognises the important role of petitions for the legislative process, as they allow the identification of existing gaps and shortcomings in the transposition of eu legislation and there is more to be done. i supported the report because of all the above.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the activities of the committee on petitions in 2015. the right to petition, which was introduced to make it easier for european citizens to address petitions or complaints to the institutions of the european union, is an important instrument that we know in the eu. it can contribute to better legislation and thus also have a significant impact on people's daily lives. especially in these times, when the eu seems far away to many citizens because of various crises, we need this bridge between citizens and institutions even more.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the activities of the committee on petitions for 2015. the 2015 annual report is an overview of the work of the committee on petitions. the committee's programme of activities is not linked to the european commission's legislative programme but is shaped by citizens who, by exercising their right to petition the european parliament, express concerns about issues in the various political and legislative areas of the union. the 2015 statistics show that the majority of citizens turn to the european parliament for assistance on matters relating to the environment, justice, the internal market and fundamental rights. in 2015, 1431 petitions were received, which is 47% less than in 2014. spain was the country with the highest number of petitions in 2015, followed by italy and germany. analysis of the statistics on petitions shows that the main reasons for the inadmissibility of petitions are the fact that petitioners still confuse the competences of the eu and the member states and do not distinguish between the eu institutions. the european commission remains the committee's primary partner in dealing with petitions, as it is responsible for monitoring the application and compliance with eu law. the key topics of the committee on petitions in 2015 were mortgage legislation and risky financial instruments, the environment and disability.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's resolution on international aviation agreements stresses that, if parliament is to take a decision on the approval of international aviation agreements at the end of the negotiations, it must monitor the entire process of negotiating and agreeing agreements from the outset. the framework agreement specifically provides that the european parliament is to be kept regularly and, if necessary, confidentially informed of all the details of the ongoing procedure at all stages of the negotiations from the very beginning. the resolution also stresses that parliament expects the commission to provide information to parliament's competent committee on its intention to propose the opening of negotiations on the conclusion and amendment of international air transport agreements, to arrange with the council and the negotiating partners for access by meps to all relevant documents, including negotiating directives and consolidated texts, at the same time and on an equal footing with the council. all these provisions of the resolution are very important, as the commission is currently negotiating 20 such agreements in a very non-transparent way, and this resolution is therefore very important, as it calls for greater involvement of parliament in the procedures and better access to information. all this is a precondition for greater transparency, which is why i myself supported the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on international air transport agreements by mr cramer, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism. i support a greater role for parliament in the process of adopting the various agreements, particularly in view of the various concerns and proposals that may arise at an early stage and are also relevant for the final approval of the agreements. the resolution of the committee on transport and tourism rightly points out that the framework agreement specifically provides that the european parliament is to be informed regularly and, if necessary, confidentially from the outset of all the details of the ongoing procedure at all stages of the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament resolution on international air agreements. in the aviation strategy for europe, the commission proposed the opening of negotiations on civil aviation safety with japan and china and on eu-level air transport agreements with china, turkey, mexico, the six gulf cooperation council member states, armenia and asean (association of southeast asian nations). if parliament has to take a decision at the end of the negotiations, it must monitor the process from the very beginning. the european parliament should be kept regularly and, where necessary, confidentially informed of all the details of the ongoing procedure at all stages of the negotiations from the very beginning. parliament guarantees the complete confidentiality of the information obtained.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. this regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the union customs code therefore entered into force on 30 october 2013, and with it all the provisions empowering the commission to draw up implementing acts, including delegated acts. the code itself came into force in may of this year. but, as my colleagues have already said, it is part of a project to modernise european customs in the sense of a complete paperless operation of all the entities involved in these customs procedures. we naturally want these procedures to be as bureaucratic as possible, in short, to be completely paperless, to simplify certain conditions for the issuing of permits, while also ensuring that appropriate controls are in place in these areas, because paperlessness also promotes opportunities for abuse. and given that the european union is also financially dependent on customs duties and the revenue they generate, there is a need to make an additional effort in terms of checks and inspections. so i think this is a step in the right direction, that this information and the law itself are welcome support for the unification of the customs area of the european union. i hope, of course, that the member states will not have too many problems in doing so and that they can implement them as soon as possible. and finally, of course, to the esteemed colleagues in the audience, and to all of you on the balconies, a merry christmas and a happy new year, and we'll see you next time.
