mr president, i would like to thank you. as several speakers have already pointed out, the digital revolution is a fact which is affecting not only the way we consume but also the way we work and learn. digitalization is changing the way we live. however, the commission's communication focuses only on the traveller consumer and thus lacks any analysis of, for example, the impact on the labour market and working conditions. digitalisation and the sharing economy bring opportunities as well as challenges. the boundaries between workers and contractors are blurred. this makes the application of labour law and collective agreements more difficult. it can be very unclear what is really the case. remote and crowdworking create new challenges and risks, both in the mental and physical working environment. more flexible forms of work can be very positive, but we can never accept that the trend towards more flexibility through digitalisation also leads to more precarious employment or less protection for workers.
mr president, to complete the single market is the highway to jobs and growth. let us have the courage to be disruptive and to stand up for an open, free and global internet. we liberate the forces that exist and boost trust by removing the digital barriers and borders. consumers should not pay twice for the same service, depending on where they live in europe, and our smes should not abide by 28 sets of rules. to create scale, they need one digital market. i support this report as it addresses national exceptions and protectionism. europe will become competitive through simple, modern and clear rules, not through shutting out others. our problem is fragmentation, not innovation. we should not slow down the shared economy but ensure that transparency and a free flow of data is as important as the other four freedoms. the same rule should apply online and offline. let me conclude by saying that swiftly reaching an agreement on safe harbour is crucial in order to avoid a legal vacuum. time is running out.
- i've put my voice down. the report is based on the eu's market-liberal doctrines. the commission has already rejected at committee level several of the gue/ngl amendments which sought to tighten up the rules, for example against social dumping and strong measures to combat tax evasion by transnational companies. i am in favour of mandatory public country-specific reporting of profits and taxes and of increased coordination and exchange of information between member states to counter tax evasion and aggressive tax planning by large companies. but i am opposed to proposals which aim to give the eu power over tax policy and, in the long term, taxation rights. i therefore choose to abstain.
in writing. we regret that the annual competition report focuses so much on successful entrepreneurship in the digital economy and seeks to regulate rather than create conditions for new entrepreneurship and increased competition. we also want to draw attention to a major competition problem in the energy union which will have to be addressed in next year's competition report, namely gazprom's attempts to monopolize and increase its dependence on russian gas. it is contrary both to internal energy market legislation and to european security interests. gazprom's deliberate attempt at market dominance has a scope and significance far greater for the european market than that of successful digital companies constantly exposed to new competition but developing through their capacity for innovation.
‒ i voted in favour of the report. the report addresses important issues of cultural and social marginalisation and how exposure can lead to radicalisation. the report also notes the rise in racism and xenophobia and calls for financial resources to combat them. despite these positive aspects, the report maintains an uncritical approach to intercultural dialogue. in particular, the report considers that europe is the owner of the values that other groups need to adopt, using terms such as 'exposing children to other cultures' and 'segregated populations, behaving in a way that is contrary to european fundamental values'. this consistent attitude shows that the european parliament still has a lot of work to do in terms of critically examining its own cultural heritage, and not just assuming that the problems are with 'the others'. despite these negative aspects, i have chosen to vote in favour of the report because it seeks to promote dialogue rather than polarization and discrimination and to allocate more resources to culture and education.
mr president, i fully support this report because women’s entrepreneurship is an enormous untapped potential for growth and jobs. it is a matter of equality and empowerment. we are not a vulnerable group. women are important actors in our economy, an asset for our economies, and the time has come for member states to recognise the full potential of female entrepreneurship and to adopt clear strategies to remove all forms of discrimination and existing obstacles, from facilitating access to capital and reducing red tape to any other form of discrimination. we must also combat stereotypes. women are too often seen as less credible, not least in sectors such as innovation and technology. it is crucial to increase business training and education, and to develop a culture of second chance, so that women can believe that they can do it and start a company. i welcome more networks of women, because it is important to support each other, to exchange good practices and to learn from each other. member states must also create the conditions for women to better conciliate family and work, but this is an issue that has to be dealt with at national level.
‒ today, parliament voted on a report on obstacles to female entrepreneurship in europe. the report highlights pressing issues, not least reforms to boost entrepreneurship in women-dominated sectors. unfortunately, there were also some paragraphs that i am very critical of. this includes the need for eu regulation of parental leave. the member states, like a broad public opinion throughout the union, have rejected the idea of the so-called maternity leave directive. the fact that parliament is now pressing for a new process to be started on eu-regulated parental insurance is both unfortunate and fundamentally provocative. i voted against the paragraphs that raised this. but as they represented a very small part of the report, i still voted in favour of the final vote.
in writing. - for me, equality is a matter of the heart. the fall in the proportion of women entrepreneurs in all member states is a loss for society as a whole. i fully share the view that there is a need for a holistic approach to women's entrepreneurship and that women's access to eu funding and further development opportunities should be facilitated in various ways. i do not think that gender quotas are part of the solution, however. i therefore voted against paragraph 22 of this report, but i nevertheless chose to endorse the report as a whole because it contains other important elements of importance for women entrepreneurs.
in writing. - for me, equality is a matter of the heart. the fall in the proportion of women entrepreneurs in all member states is a loss for society as a whole. i fully share the view that there is a need for a holistic approach to women's entrepreneurship and that women's access to eu funding and further development opportunities should be facilitated in various ways. i do not think that gender quotas are part of the solution, however. i therefore voted against paragraph 22 of this report, but i nevertheless chose to endorse the report as a whole because it contains other important elements of importance for women entrepreneurs.
‒ the european parliament voted today on an own-initiative report on skills-building measures to combat youth unemployment. the report mentioned several issues in education policy that are not within the eu's competence. i voted against them, such as the european youth guarantee and the investment in apprenticeships and training in countries such as greece with high youth unemployment. i also voted against a new eu prize for the best project to combat youth unemployment. in the final vote, however, i voted for the report as a whole, as it did not contain any sharp proposals that would imply a new eu policy in the field of education or the labour market.
in writing. - i've turned my voice down. with youth unemployment in the eu at 21.4%, strong action and new economic thinking emphasising public green investment for new jobs and a developed welfare sector are needed. this report does not advocate such a new policy, but instead focuses on individual skills development and the promotion of entrepreneurship. but at the same time i note the improvements made in the committee's work on the report, which now places greater emphasis on the rights of young people in the labour market. that's why i choose to keep my voice down.
in writing. ‒ reducing youth unemployment in europe is absolutely necessary. the exclusion of millions of young people from the labour market is harmful in several ways. it is harmful to the economies of member states with large numbers of people of working age outside the labour market, to companies that are unable to recruit new and skilled workers, and above all to young people themselves who are given a poor start in life. this report therefore highlights a number of good points, including the need to link the labour market and education more closely together. i voted for the report as a matter of course, but i voted against the introduction of a prize for projects that are good at fighting unemployment. i do not think that is the role of the eu and i am convinced that the member states value getting young people into work more than getting a prize.
in writing. - i've lowered my voice. the report is not clear enough on the issue of net neutrality. the amendments tabled by the gue/ngl group to ensure this were unfortunately rejected at committee level. i want new technology to benefit all eu citizens. it should not be the interests of the telecom companies that are prioritized. i would also like to stress the importance of personal privacy, data security and safety and health issues in this context. as for the question of geo-blocking, it has many dimensions. the swedish journalists' association has written to the swedish parliament, stressing the problem of a responsible publisher in sweden not being able to use geo-blocking. they write a swedish website very well be subject to legal review in other european countries, at least if the material is available for reading, watching, listening in that country. in this context, we consider it to be almost self-evident that the owner/publisher of this website must be able to decide, for example by means of geo-blocking, in which territories certain media content may or may not be made available. this is a matter which must be thoroughly investigated before it is time for legislation. i choose to keep my voice down.
‒ legislative proposals regulating the digital single market, three main areas; (1) better access to digital goods for both consumers and businesses across the union, (2) creating common rules of the game so that digital networks and innovative services can develop better, (3) ensuring the growth potential of digital services. a developed digital market is an important precondition for creating jobs and growth in europe. that is why i voted for the law.
madam president, i would like to thank you. a year of failures is behind the eu, and a new year of opportunities for new failures is now ahead of eu cooperation. we see an external border protection that has totally failed and as a result we see mass immigration of almost biblical proportions, with no control whatsoever over the people who are allowed in. and as a result, we now see terrorist attacks at an ever-increasing rate. we are seeing sexual abuse of a kind never seen before in europe. the eu is not delivering what it promised to the member states, and i strongly question whether we should pay full membership fees from my country. what you usually do is raise your wages. mr juncker and mr tusk now enjoy a €700 salary increase, giving them a monthly salary of €31,272 retroactively from july last year. how can you even in your wildest imagination think that you represent the people of europe?
mr president, i would like to thank you. i want to be clear that even if we are today to some extent criticising what is happening in poland, we must also stress that friends must always be able to discuss things openly with each other and still remain friends. poland is a very important part of a united europe, but fundamental human rights and freedoms must be protected in every eu country, regardless of government. commissioner timmermans, the commission is fully justified in looking at what is happening in poland. but it is hypocritical that hungary has not been examined in the same way as regards the independence of the media and the rule of law. it is high time for the commission to treat everyone consistently and equally in terms of fundamental rights and the independence of the rule of law. in conclusion, madam prime minister, if you continue on this path, we risk seeing fundamental rights put on the back burner in country after country. i beg you: let us not start this eu-domino so that we see country after country fall, instead of standing up and defending fundamental rights, but let us together defend and protect the values and principles on which this gigantic eu project is based and which we want to leave to future generations in a better way than when we found them.
mr president, i would like to thank you. welcome to the european parliament, the dutch presidency. it's going to be a very interesting six months ahead of you. one of the topics will be the referendum on the association agreement with ukraine - very interesting considering that the agreement will start in january already. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. what a wonderful attitude to democracy to have the eu telling the voters in the netherlands how to vote. immigration will also be a hot topic. sweden and the netherlands are quite similar. in sweden, the government has finally realised that border controls needed to be reintroduced. what is the situation in your country, with a forecast of 90,000 new arrivals in 2016? it has become a competition between the elite politicians in this house to see who is the most benign on the immigration issue, but none of you take responsibility for the development and impact of this in your home countries. what does the future look like for the netherlands and sweden, for example? we have many debates all the time about job creation for european citizens. so how is it possible to deliver lies about creating jobs for all newcomers when we are not even capable of creating jobs for our own people? (the speaker accepted to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the answer ('blue card'). of course, the eu will try, by whatever means it can, to influence the citizens of the netherlands to vote as it wishes. it's the trend we've seen getting worse and worse, actually, all the time. this is a development which is not in line with democracy and i believe it should be stopped. the eu should not interfere and try to control how member states vote on matters affecting their own countries.
mr president, i would like to thank you. welcome to the european parliament the prime minister of the netherlands. as always, i am happy when liberals are in a leading position in europe. it is particularly important at this time that we have liberals in positions of power, because we are seeing a wave of new nationalism sweeping across europe and we know that the recipe for creating conflict is more nationalism and economic stagnation. it creates unwanted contradictions. it pits groups against each other. the migration challenge we face is largely due to our failure to address these issues at european level. because if we take the amount of people that are coming, with the economic capacity that we have, we could have handled this in a responsible and humanistic way. instead, we are talking today about building borders around europe, we are talking about building borders between the eu member states and this is a direct consequence of neo-nationalism and economic stagnation. i have high hopes that the dutch presidency will be able to guide us through the challenges of economic, migration and security policy.
mr president, both we and prime minister rutte have a lot of important challenges ahead, and we risk forgetting that some of these challenges are more important than others. prime minister, your presidency’s most important challenge will be very fundamental: to keep the union together. everything that we have been able to achieve is in some way challenged at a time of many centrifugal powers in the union and in europe. member states that are not following the rules should be forced to stick to the rules, not by making the european parliament a political court, but by ensuring that we follow the legal procedures. the refugee situation must be dealt with; the well-functioning border controls; an asylum process that we need in order to ensure that everyone can and will take their responsibilities. we need to ensure that the british, when they vote, have every opportunity and every reason to vote in order to stay in the european union. we all know who would be the most happy ones if europe is disintegrating, and we have no reason to make those dark forces happy. you need to stick to a strong european union regarding the challenges we have to the european peace order coming from russia. a lot of people say that we should go back to business as usual and i can support that, but we cannot do that until business is as usual, and that means that russia needs to respect european and international laws and agreements. they need to stick to the rules that make it possible to have business as usual.
‒ i have voted against these three reports, which seek to introduce new regulations (instead of directives). the consequence of these reports is that no member state of the eu can legislate on higher protection and environmental standards for cableway installations, gaseous fuel combustion plants and personal protective equipment. i think that is fundamentally wrong. it is one thing to have a minimum threshold for environmental and protection measures that all member states must achieve, but it is wrong to decide that no member state should be able to improve its legislation on the protection of people and the environment on its own. that's why i lowered my voice.
‒ i have voted against these three reports, which seek to introduce new regulations (instead of directives). the consequence of these reports is that no member state of the eu can legislate on higher protection and environmental standards for cableway installations, gaseous fuel combustion plants and personal protective equipment. i think that is fundamentally wrong. it is one thing to have a minimum threshold for environmental and protection measures that all member states must achieve, but it is wrong to decide that no member state should be able to improve its legislation on the protection of people and the environment on its own. that's why i lowered my voice.
‒ i have voted against these three reports, which seek to introduce new regulations (instead of directives). the consequence of these reports is that no member state of the eu can legislate on higher protection and environmental standards for cableway installations, gaseous fuel combustion plants and personal protective equipment. i think that is fundamentally wrong. it is one thing to have a minimum threshold for environmental and protection measures that all member states must achieve, but it is wrong to decide that no member state should be able to improve its legislation on the protection of people and the environment on its own. that's why i lowered my voice.
‒ we are in favour of adding kyrgyzstan to the list of gsp+ beneficiary countries in the future with the customs benefits that this entails, but the eu should have waited with the decision. the kyrgyz parliament is expected to adopt a bill against homosexual propaganda, which is in violation of international human rights law. the un and several international organisations have also strongly criticised the country for not implementing adopted conventions and shortcomings, including in the area of children's rights, the use of torture and the treatment of human rights defenders. we believe that this is a missed opportunity for the eu and the european parliament to influence the country towards greater openness and respect for human rights and therefore we support the resolution.
in writing. we do not question the resolution's description of the human rights situation in kyrgyzstan. however, we do not wish to challenge the delegated act concerned, as the tariff benefits which kyrgyzstan receives under the gsp can hopefully act as an incentive for the country to implement positive changes. we believe that the commission now has a very great responsibility to follow closely developments in kyrgyzstan, including through its monitoring body, to ensure that the country fully ratifies and applies all relevant conventions on human rights, workers' rights, environmental protection and good governance.
‒ infants and young children are a particularly vulnerable group in relation to endocrine disruptors and other foreign substances. what they eat and drink is therefore of particular importance to their health, and the rules governing, for example, breastmilk substitutes and nutritional supplements for children must therefore be strict and scientifically based. for this reason, we have supported the request for a new delegated act which takes into account the results of the efsa review of processed cereal-based foods and baby foods and which is based on scientific evidence on the effects of added sugar. however, we have chosen not to object to this delegated act, as we do not want to impede the application of eu regulation no 609/2013 on food for particular groups and thereby contribute to creating legal uncertainty.
‒ infants and young children are a particularly vulnerable group in relation to endocrine disruptors and other foreign substances. what they eat and drink is therefore of particular importance to their health, and the rules governing, for example, breastmilk substitutes and nutritional supplements for children must therefore be strict and scientifically based. for that reason, i have supported the request for a new delegated act which takes into account the results of the efsa review of processed cereal-based foods and baby foods and which is based on scientific evidence on the effects of added sugar. however, i have chosen not to object to this delegated act, as i do not want to impede the application of eu regulation no 609/2013 on food for particular groups and thereby contribute to creating legal uncertainty.
madam president, i would like to thank you. you will be destroyed in the houses, apartments and trenches you have dug. all turkish forces will fight until the entire southeast is cleared of terrorists and until peace reigns. we will not give up. president erdoğan will make this statement in a speech on 15 december. it is possible to assume that he wants us to believe that this is about his fight against the pkk, but the reality is that his war in south-eastern turkey, i.e. northern kurdistan, is a war against mainly civilians. in the last four months, over 160 kurdish civilians have been killed, most of them women and children. last night i went through the many videos, news reports and articles i have received in recent months from both kurds and turks in sweden an inside information that shows something completely different from the image erdoğan wants to spread to us. and it is frightening. for example, one might wonder whether it really takes a large number of soldiers to overpower a single aunt. we are on the brink of civil war, and if we don't put pressure on erdoğan, who will? we cannot look past the fingers for any length of time in exchange for promises to stop the flow of refugees.
madam president, it is very interesting to listen to the voices of putin in this chamber, because this defines very much what this issue is about. they dislike and do not want to express respect for the territorial integrity of these countries. they do not want to support the independence and national sovereignty of these countries. they are against free trade and open markets and transparent energy trade. they are against visa liberalisation. they are against cooperation in the fight against corruption and bureaucracy and disrespect for the rule of law. they are defending the interests of putin in europe, and it is shameful. it also reminds us what this is about: defending an open europe, ensuring that european values are strong, and doing what we can in order to support the citizens of these countries.
for the ppe group. president. - the debate is closed. it is a joyous and historic event that the stabilisation and association agreement with kosovo is now becoming a reality. the agreement is a milestone for kosovo and will, among other things, open up new opportunities for the country's economy. the agreement removes the obstacles to the single market and confirms that kosovo's future is european. at the same time, we can say that european integration cannot be taken for granted. it requires political will and it requires political decision-making. it is also about implementing agreed reforms. in this context, i note that the rapporteur of this parliament, mrs lunacek, has stressed the importance of intensifying the fight against corruption. this is central. corruption is a crucial obstacle to kosovo's further development. the political will must also include the implementation of agreements which may be unpopular with their own voters but which are at the same time crucial for the normalisation of relations with the neighbouring country. this is a responsibility for the government, but also for the representatives of the opposition. in conclusion, i would like to express my support for this historic first formal agreement between the eu and kosovo.
on behalf of the ppe group.– mr president, let me begin by thanking the high representative, ms mogherini, for her important statement. christians in iraq and syria are, on a daily basis, abducted, raped, tortured and forced to flee their homeland. the total number of christians has dropped dramatically. christianity, and its individuals, traditions and historic sites, are being wiped out. let us be clear: it is absolutely imperative to stop islamic state. for some time, it has been reported that crimes against humanity are going on. sadly, the situation is worse. isis is guilty of the most detestable, cruellest crimes defined in international law. a great number of the world’s leading lawyers affirm that the ongoing persecution is met by the strictest definition of genocide. in december, the president of this parliament, mr schulz, said that the persecution of christians is undervalued and has not been properly addressed. we have to change that. for the sake of the victims, for the fundamental right of restitution and reconciliation, we have an historic obligation to call these evil … (the president cut off the speaker)
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. attacks on religious minorities around the world have increased markedly in recent times against christians, shiites, yazidis and other religious groups. daesh blindly attacks anyone who doesn't believe in what they believe. most of the victims are muslims, but daesh has also killed thousands of christians and forced hundreds of thousands to flee their homes. they have destroyed over a hundred christian cultural and religious heritage sites, including those in nineveh and palmyra. sweden today has one of the world's largest diasporas of assyrians, syrians and chaldeans, and it has grown rapidly as a result of daesh's ethnic cleansing in the middle east. a hundred years after the genocide of 1915, we see history repeating itself as the same people are once again expelled and murdered. syria's christian population has declined to less than one-tenth, putting a religion that has existed in the region for over 2,000 years in serious jeopardy. it is therefore important that we call what is happening today an ongoing genocide and a crime against humanity, and it is of the utmost importance that we act before it is completed. for past wars in the name of religion have been devastating for our region, and i believe that the eu can and should do even more to get the warring parties to stop the starvation tactics that we see - we have seen terrible images being wired in the media recently - but also to lift the blockade of humanitarian aid to northern syria, where different religious and ethnic minorities live. all religious and ethnic minority groups shall have the right to live in their historical and traditional homelands in dignity, equality and security.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to once again send a message to all the victims and their loved ones who were affected by the terrible terrorist attacks in paris and in other places around the world. the fight against terrorism must of course be fought, but the most important thing is to prevent it and it is important that we use the right tools. today we are discussing a resolution with both good and bad elements, and it is in fact a response to president hollande's decision to invoke the so-called mutual assistance clause. hollande called the paris attacks an act of war and then declared war on terrorism, just like george w. bush did after 9/11. the bush war on terror has been going on for many years, but with facts in hand, we know that it has rather led to increased conflict and more terrorism. in paris, the terrorist attack was carried out by eu citizens who grew up here. the attack was a heinous crime, but it was not an attack by a foreign state. daesh is not a state, and therefore the attack must be met with police methods. we believe that it is a dangerous development if we create a practice where crimes are punished by the military instead of the police and in a way that all member states are drawn into this so-called war. we should have used article 222 instead, which de facto covers, among other things, terrorist attacks. we are happy to discuss how the eu should develop its common security and defence policy, but we do not want it to be confused with a home-grown terrorist attack here in europe. we do not want to see the further militarization of the eu in the way we believe the resolution advocates and therefore we have chosen not to support the joint resolution, but to stick to the one we have written ourselves and which more closely reflects our green values.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. thank you to the high representative for a good speech which shows clear respect for human rights. i would also like to thank the colleagues who have been involved in the negotiations to produce this resolution and the colleagues who have also shown, with great respect, the importance of this resolution. it is a very important resolution for the work on respect for human rights that we are going to vote on tomorrow. it is a resolution which the european parliament will bring to the un human rights council at its next meeting in geneva in march. in this resolution we showed that we are closely following the situation of respect for human rights in the world and that the promotion of human rights is the highest priority of our foreign policy. it also sets out the priorities of the european parliament in the un human rights council. i would like to say that it is precisely in times of conflict and crisis that we must not waver, but it is particularly important that we uphold and defend human rights, both within the eu and in our foreign policy. human rights are the foundation of a democratic society. the resolution touches on several important areas: respect for human rights in the case of refugees and migrants, where humanitarian corridors and humanitarian visas are essential to protect the human rights of people fleeing war and persecution. it also recalls the ongoing work on the implementation of the beijing platform and the right to education and health as fundamental human rights, and the importance of women's participation in peace and conflict resolution and the equal representation of women at all levels of decision-making. the resolution also concerns the rights of children, climate refugees and the rights of lgbtq people, where we unfortunately see a worrying trend of an increase in violations. the resolution also includes as a priority a selection of countries where we pay attention to the human rights situation. in addition, we have also included the european council conclusions on the middle east peace process, which is particularly important in view of the current situation. i am also glad that we have drawn attention here in the resolution to the refusal of entry to the un special representative for human rights in the occupied palestinian territories, which seriously limits the ability to monitor the situation and makes it impossible for the un to work there. the resolution also draws attention to the situation of human rights defenders, as we see their freedom of action increasingly restricted in many places in europe and the world. despite death threats and reprisals, many activists continue to work tirelessly for human rights. i hope that tomorrow we will send a strong signal to those who will be meeting in geneva next month. it is more important than ever that the eu can show political leadership in respect for human rights. the eu is and should be a strong actor in international cooperation for the promotion and respect of human rights.
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the i would like to hear what ana gomes has to say about what we also discussed in the previous speaker's speech, where mr krasnodębski just mentioned sweden for example and that we have many young people who have gone to fight alongside isis. integration and a better and more equitable distribution of refugees must be the basis for this. if krasnodębski's homeland took in more young men and women fleeing, perhaps there would be less of this kind of activity. what do you say, mrs. gomes?
madam president, i would like to thank you. these free trade negotiations are both urgent and urgent. they are keen that new zealand and australia are two of the six countries with which we do not have a preferential trade agreement or are negotiating preferential trade agreements. so the only other four are north korea, russia, china and taiwan. and australia and new zealand deserve to be in better company in eu trade policy than that. it is also urgent because the new major free trade agreement with the pacific is changing trade patterns, and those trade patterns are changing so that europe is the biggest loser. we need our own trade agreements with these countries to enable our companies to export. moreover, this has the potential to be one of the best free trade agreements we can have, and i expect the commission to be very ambitious in terms of both regulatory harmonisation and, not least, data flows. these are probably two of the countries in the world that are closest to us, and if we are going to start working on building global standards, europe should lead that process with those closest to us. there are some distress calls, i heard some here today, warning against agricultural products. australia and new zealand are major agricultural exporters, but i would remind you that they have a gigantic and growing regional market. and we're on the other side of the world. we don't have to think that we're going to be the big market for australia and new zealand, no matter what the trade agreement delivers. i have two expectations of the commission. the first is that these agreements are being used to set a new gold standard for european free trade agreements, that this is going to be the most ambitious we have. the second expectation i have of the commission is that it will not be bogged down in endless negotiations. this can be delivered quickly if you are on board, and i expect the commission to do that.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the colleagues for the good work and for the compromise spirit shown this week and in this report. the petitions committee, of which i am chair, is a bridge between the eu’s citizens and its institutions. the committee should be the door for the citizens of europe to bring their concerns and their ideas to the attention of their elected representatives. it is important today to underline that this report focuses on the work in the committee in 2014 – a special year since it was an election year to the european parliament, reflected in the work of the committee. it is a pleasure to call attention to the fact that we, together with the secretariat and the head of unit of the petitions committee, have managed to increase the efficiency of the work in the committee since 2014. our internal modernisation of working methods, which we started late in 2014, bears fruit today. i find it positive that we managed to persuade the commission to appoint its first vice-president as our commissioner and i look forward to working with all of you to ensure even better service for petitioners and all the citizens of the eu.
in writing. - i've turned my voice down. the stabilisation and association agreement with kosovo is the last stabilisation and association agreement to be concluded with the countries of the western balkans. the association agreement contains a number of policy measures which could have a major impact on economic, environmental and social conditions in kosovo. i believe that the people of kosovo should have the final say on this important issue. the best form of a popular decision on crucial issues is a referendum. a comprehensive democratic debate on the advantages and disadvantages of the association agreement should be conducted in kosovo before decisions are taken in the best democratic way. that's why i'm gonna lower my voice.
‒ i believe that the eu should focus on civil security work and that nato should be the arena for military cooperation, so i have voted against parts of the report. this is the case with paragraphs 11 and 18, which call for progress towards a common defence union. i voted in favour of the report as a whole because i think it is important to stress that the eu countries must show solidarity in the event of an acute crisis.
in writing. the possibility for a member state to invoke article 42 (7) is enshrined in the eu treaty. we swedish social democrats support a review of the mutual defence clause because we believe that the eu needs to learn from the handling of the first application of article 42 (7) and determine how a similar situation should best be handled in the future. we do not, however, believe that there is a need for a permanent civil-military headquarters or that the activation of the mutual assistance clause should in any way lead to a european defence union. we therefore chose not to support these writings.
‒ i have tabled this resolution. the resolution contains many good points on women's rights, on a more humane asylum and refugee policy in line with international standards and on ensuring the rights of lgbtq people. but the resolution is a clear example of the eu's double standard in foreign policy relations and human rights. the section on human rights in iran has been completely removed, the violations of human rights by turkey and the situation of the kurds are conspicuous by their absence, the occupation of western sahara has been completely forgotten. i reject double standards in human rights and that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of paragraph 89, as i feel that it adequately describes the situation and makes clear that all parties to the conflict must respect international law.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to say that i have a very high regard for mario draghi and the ecb's mission to try to get the european economy back on its feet. it is an extremely difficult task, but i also think it is interesting to look at the issues of inflation and quantitative easing. what can be done in the future? for example, what opportunities are there to make the efforts and initiatives of the ecb more effective? can the efforts, money and resources that go out to society and the economy be better targeted to achieve greater efficiency and impact of investment through the means used by the ecb? these are the kinds of questions i think would be interesting to have answered.
mr president, i would like to thank you. tonight we are debating the tisa resolution. it is one of several agreements currently in the making and it must be seen alongside the ttip agreement with the usa and the ceta agreement with canada. there is a great and mostly well-founded concern about what these agreements might mean for the environment, consumers and procurement, and for our ability to resume failed privatisations in the public sector. trade is good, but it is not an end in itself and it is not the overriding environment and democracy. that is why we now need to send a clear message to the commission. the text on the table has several good points in terms of safeguarding the right to regulate the protection of personal data and the protection of the public sector, but it can be improved. i therefore hope that you will support the amendments tabled by the greens, which seek to make the proposal even sharper and even better with proposals for a positive list, amongst other things. it's about preserving the ability to make good decisions in the future. (the speaker accepted to answer a question ('blue card') in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the answer ('blue card'). this includes procurement rules, but also the possibility of taking decisions in the area of climate policy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. today's trade in services involves increasingly long value chains, increased digitalisation, blurred lines between what is goods and what is services, and it requires new clear rules. tisa must not, however, under any circumstances lead to social dumping, unfair competition, poor working conditions and exploitation of people and the environment. i therefore welcome the fact that parliament in this report so clearly calls for respect for the ilo core conventions and calls on all parties to ratify the ilo basic standards. i consider this absolutely crucial, together with increased transparency, stronger protection of public services and the right of states to regulate in the public interest to be guaranteed - thus crucial if there is to be a sufficiently broad support in this parliament for the tisa agreement. all of this must be done or it will not be feasible.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i should like to begin by saying that i have never seen such a unity of the left, the greens and the social democrats around the market economy as the ideal, but when the overriding aim is to protect high tariffs, then apparently all arguments are permissible. but this is not about whether china is a market economy. it is about something much bigger; it is about whether we should respect the treaty of china's accession to the wto whether the world's largest economy should respect or abandon the rules-based world trade and whether we should risk a trade conflict between the world's largest and the world's third largest economy, and what that would mean for job losses. but the most remarkable thing here is that the commission did not address this issue at all in its review of the eu's anti-dumping rules, for which i am responsible. and now that only five out of 12 are reacting, we must hurry to present a proposal which respects the wto rules, which does not create a trade conflict with china and which is politically feasible. all i can say is good luck.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the left and the anti-free trade movement often describe these negotiations as if europe is forcing and pressuring poor countries to accept our view of trade. what if it was as simple as that, we came up with our position, and then we went ahead and said, "sign on the last page", and it just happened. what's fascinating about this room is that the same leftists -- often the same anti-free trade people -- are now outraged that the african countries didn't want to sign the very demands that they themselves are now making. in fact, trade is probably the most important way to combat poverty and achieve sustainable development. and so, when the debate is over, there's only one question left: do we think africa will get richer by negotiating with us, or do we think they'll get poorer? do we think they'll get richer if we let them have this deal that they want, or do we think they'll get poorer? i believe in the beneficial effect of free trade. i hope my colleagues will do the same.
madam president, i would like to thank you. thank you for allowing us to have this debate. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of equal treatment to all workers in the same sector. it also leads to distortions of competition whereby operators who do not declare their goods and services receive an unfair cost advantage. undeclared workers are also more likely to be exposed to unsafe working conditions and exploitation by shady companies. in some cases, we can even speak of pure slave labor. when companies do not pay social security contributions for the employee, important social security and pension benefits are also lost. reducing the black sector would therefore also increase security in the labour market. i therefore welcome the establishment of this platform as a first step towards combating undeclared work, and i particularly welcome the social partners being represented in the work of the platform. the parties are de facto our labour market and i am sure that their participation will make the platform effective. i would urge the commission, however, not to stop there. at the same time, we must fight poverty and unemployment so that people do not have to accept any job at any price, and we must also establish and enforce transnational laws that ensure that wage earners cannot be exploited. the right to equal conditions of work and access to courts and justice for victims of crime. (the speaker accepted to answer a question ('blue card') in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.) "
the answer ('blue card'). it was hard to see any issue in this, but i can only say that small businesses that compete with other small businesses by having unfair conditions for their employees, these small businesses are probably pretty angry that we don't have proper rules for employee conditions that everyone can live by, and that we don't have a legal system that makes sure that they go to jail if they cheat, because cheaters are what they are.
mr president, i would like to thank the commission for the package. i think it is important that taxation is fair, in order to fight illegal tax avoidance, and transparent regarding the differences, but also – something which i think we tend to forget in this discussion – it needs to be competitive. europe needs to be a competitive economy. to be fair, the european union is the most highly-taxed region in the global economy, and we certainly do not have the best growth and the most innovative development of companies. this is one of the problems we are discussing, and i think it is important to take this perspective into consideration in our discussions. the us is not going to go as far as the commission now proposes for the european union. the european union is going beyond what the oecd is proposing. this means that there will be problems with competitiveness. but i would also like to underline one thing, namely that in the digital economy it is not that easy to say where an activity of a company is. it is not like in the old industrial economy. i think it is extremely important to have a focus on transparency and fairness, but also competitiveness. i think there we need – in parliament and with the commission – to do much more work, because europe is not the competitive economy we need it to be.
in writing. - i've decided to abstain. eurojust is an eu body whose purpose is to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime, and in this case it involves the exchange of personal data. the left party is against eurojust as such, but votes for cooperation when countries themselves want to be involved. however, the situation in ukraine is tense and the country has repeatedly violated human rights, including the right to due process, and therefore we choose to abstain in this vote.
in writing. the cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine is a welcome step towards more effective combating organised crime. however, the ongoing occupation of crimea and the war in eastern ukraine are complicating both the possibilities for cooperation and the situation. the fight against trafficking in human beings for slave labour or sexual purposes has been weakened and the crimes have worsened as a result of the conflict and the occupation. this is particularly serious as ukraine has long been one of the most common countries of origin, where the international organisation for migration estimates that more than 160 000 people have fallen victim to trafficking since 1991. this situation has now been worsened by the conflict in the eastern parts of the country and the occupation of crimea. i am convinced that the european commission must do more and support ukraine more precisely in the current conflict if the fight against crossborder crime is not to experience a backlash.
in writing. - i've decided to abstain. eurojust is an eu body whose purpose is to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime, and in this case it involves the exchange of personal data. the left party is against eurojust as such, but votes for cooperation when countries themselves want to be involved. however, the country has repeatedly violated human rights, including the right to due process, and we therefore abstain in this vote.
in writing. the cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro is a welcome step towards a more effective fight against organised crime. but that's not enough. the european commission has pointed out in its 2014 progress report that success depends on reducing corruption and improving judicial deficiencies. montenegro has taken measures in the area of anti-corruption following its application for eu membership. these efforts should be supported by the eu. cooperation with eurojust will not produce sufficient results if assistance is limited to that. i nevertheless choose to support the report because cooperation is a necessary, but not sufficient, measure.
‒ i regularly vote in accordance with the committee responsible for immunity procedures, where it is reasonable and in accordance with the rules of procedure for cases to be referred to the national judiciary unless there are political reasons.
‒ i regularly vote in accordance with the committee responsible for immunity procedures, where it is reasonable and in accordance with the rules of procedure for cases to be referred to the national judiciary unless there are political reasons.
‒ i regularly vote in accordance with the committee responsible for immunity procedures, where it is reasonable and in accordance with the rules of procedure for cases to be referred to the national judiciary unless there are political reasons.
‒ today the european parliament voted on a record in the review of the eu biodiversity strategy. the report contains several important elements, such as the continuing ban on certain toxic spraying agents. the report also rejects a revision of the habitats and birds directives and calls for common sustainability criteria for forestry. the habitats directive needs to be revised, not least because it over-regulates wildlife management (including wolf hunting). a stance we pushed hard for during the campaign. the birds directive is from 1979 and the habitats directive is from 1992, and which species need protection must be updated regularly. some species that need protection get nothing, and some species that get protection no longer need it. the report also calls for common criteria for sustainable forestry. but the conditions for forestry in sweden and, for example, greece are very different. it is not in the interests of the biodiversity of greek or swedish forests to transfer more power over forestry policy to the eu. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. - biodiversity is important. but today we voted against the european parliament's involvement in the review of the eu biodiversity strategy. the reason is that it rejects a revision of the habitats and birds directives and calls for common sustainability criteria for forestry. nature is changing and we must therefore be prepared to revise our legislation to better reflect the reality of today. only then can we ensure biodiversity and sustainable management of the wild stock. the birds directive is from 1979 and the habitats directive is from 1992, and which species need protection must be updated regularly. some species that need protection get nothing, and some species that get protection no longer need it. the european parliament also called for common criteria for sustainable forestry. but the conditions for forestry in sweden and, for example, greece are very different. it is not in the interests of the biodiversity of greek or swedish forests to transfer more power over forestry policy to the eu.
‒ generally a good report on ecosystem services and their role in nature, the economy and society. for example, antibiotic resistance is mentioned as a future challenge. the species and habitats directive regulates wolf stocks to some extent, and it is deeply unfortunate that this report opposes a review of the legislation. however, there are reports that the commission needs to review what should apply when adapting the species and habitats directive to, for example, economic and regional conditions. we see the need to control our wolf tribe as part of our special condition. i would have preferred other texts in paragraphs 65 and 66 which would be more open to revision so that regional considerations can be safeguarded. the report contains a number of articles on sustainability criteria for biomass and forest management. its importance will depend entirely on its design and it is important that these do not disadvantage sustainable production from scandinavia and respect that forestry policy is a competence of the member states. i voted against the reports on the opening up of the rules on environmental inspections on the problem of pesticide resistance, because i do not think it is justified to change the framework for that reason. overall, the report contains important comments on the considerations that should be taken into account in the review of the eu biodiversity strategy. in view of the above, i have therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - biodiversity is important. but today we voted against the european parliament's involvement in the review of the eu biodiversity strategy. the reason is that it rejects a revision of the habitats and birds directives and calls for common sustainability criteria for forestry. nature is changing and we must therefore be prepared to revise our legislation to better reflect the reality of today. only then can we ensure biodiversity and sustainable management of the wild stock. the birds directive is from 1979 and the habitats directive is from 1992, and which species need protection must be updated regularly. some species that need protection get nothing, and some species that get protection no longer need it. the european parliament also called for common criteria for sustainable forestry. but the conditions for forestry in sweden and, for example, greece are very different. it is not in the interests of the biodiversity of greek or swedish forests to transfer more power over forestry policy to the eu.
in writing. 'the own-initiative report is not legislation and is mainly concerned with taking action against the serious depletion of europe's biodiversity. of course we stand up for the swedish forest and the right of sweden to decide for itself about the hunt of wolves. the eu has no competence in hunting matters it is a national matter. when eu lawyers use the nature conservation directives as an argument to stop swedish wolf hunting, they are wrong. a review of the directives in that area is therefore welcome. but the report is also good and the eu must do more to address the depletion of biodiversity in many eu countries. sweden is far ahead, not least because of our forestry policy, which combines biodiversity and the use of forest resources. the protection of biodiversity is vital for europe's future, but current efforts are insufficient. the depletion of ecosystems also has social consequences, especially in rural areas. countless jobs depend on biodiversity and nature. we take responsibility for the eu's commitment to sustainable, environmentally friendly and social development. we therefore support the report, even if we do not share all its positions.'
in writing. ‒ a modern nature management system is based on the principle of adaptive management. the natural values we see today are the product of a management of the natural resources we had. it is of the utmost importance that management is adapted to actual changes and to reality. that flexibility is lacking today. we have a rigid legislation which in practice means that we have to invest time and resources in species which do not need extended protection, while there are species which are currently being hunted but which from a scientific point of view should not be hunted. this is serious. it is necessary to introduce the possibility of amending the annexes to the directive on endangered species fairly quickly and without having to amend the whole directive. writing about the need for the european commission to review what should apply when adapting the species and habitats directive to, for example, economic and regional conditions is in my view insufficient. however, this is a good report overall, and although i would have preferred other texts in paragraphs 65 and 66 which would be more open to revision so that regional considerations can be safeguarded, i choose to vote in favour of the proposal.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the other day a lynch mob went out to abuse refugee children in the inner city of stockholm and at the same time 39 people, many of them children, died in the dark waves of the mediterranean. what is happening around europe right now is terrible, and it is provoked by an unresolved refugee situation. it is unsolved insofar as some countries have taken on a great deal of responsibility while many countries have done nothing at all. we must remember that only together can we challenge this crisis. only together can we take control of the external border and only together can we fairly share the responsibility for the people who flee their countries to seek protection in europe. not by countries racing to the bottom in terms of reception. not through closed borders. not by letting hate win. not by sitting idly by and waiting for someone else to take responsibility, as is done in many lands. we need to get our heads together right now. it's about time. in fact, europe has faced larger crises than this throughout history. generations of our parents and grandparents succeeded in uniting this continent after two bloody wars. we have a moral responsibility to take it here and now, and no country can shy away from it.
of course, mr president, i am happy to receive any question from any colleague.
the answer ('blue card'). the question is justified. i am prepared to take responsibility for european solutions and european decisions. this means that sweden's external border is the same as greece's border with the mediterranean. we should all take responsibility for guarding this border, and when it comes to responsibility for refugees, we must all remember our own history in europe, our own modern history. we have seen hungary, we have seen czechoslovakia where people have been forced to flee. they've been received. we know that poland has taken in a large number of refugees from ukraine, for example, and we have to admit that, but together we can also take responsibility for those who are forced to flee from syria, from eritrea and from other places in the world where life is under great threat.
mr president, i would like to thank you. violence against refugees, migrants and non-white people is on the rise in sweden, germany, france, greece, bulgaria, and the list goes on. there are many of our friends among our neighbors who are afraid now. they don't dare to go out. when they go out, they look around and they don't take their kids with them. this is real terror. we know that racists and nazis are capable of committing violent crimes. but the question is, what do the rest of us do? what language do we use, what policies do we put in place? if we do things that legitimize their polarized worldview, when the far right here suspects refugees of being terrorists, when denmark passes hideous laws that make it legal to loot refugees, when sweden closes its borders, when national and eu politicians pit refugees against welfare instead of looking to expand our aging societies, then yes, we are contributing, when we scratch, or you, the path here. racists become a tail of haters on social media and in the streets and squares. we need a different policy. a policy that welcomes refugees, that saves lives in the mediterranean, and that directs resources to the countries that are hosting refugees so that we can start a coalition of refugee-friendly european countries that work together in solidarity for a dignified reception. we need a new policy, my friends, we don't need an eu super border policy that is angry with greece for not stopping refugees - it's refoulement - we need a different policy. (the speaker declined a question ('blue card') from mr jurek.)
mr president, i would like to thank you. despite your fine words in this chamber, the naivety of this matter must come to an end. there is, of course, a limit to when the problems of too much immigration eventually become overwhelming for a country. the media in my country report on a daily basis on children who are clearly much older than their stated age. girls are harassed daily in bathhouses and sexually assaulted in public places. just recently, a 22-year-old girl was brutally murdered by a so-called recluse who claimed to be 15 years old. it is a great shame that you in this house do not want to raise these problems in any way. we in sweden have reached the limit now. we have no jobs, no housing, no money to deal with the mass immigration we experienced last year. the schengen agreement is falling, and i'm glad of it. the eu is a failure that is becoming more and more obvious to the european people.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner avramopoulos concluded with something very important. he said that we must find solutions that are in line with our own core values, and i agree with him completely. the problem is, our solutions don't always do that. for example, it is not in line with our basic values to introduce internal border controls, because they put the whole of schengen at risk. it is also not in line with our values to stop people fleeing for their lives with better external border controls and on the grounds that they do not have the correct passport documents, because this jeopardises the right of asylum and we are bound by it. if we really want to live up to our core values, we have to start prioritising the root causes of people coming here, and not least we have to be solidarity between eu countries. it is not right that some countries should take in hundreds of thousands of asylum seekers while others take in a few hundred. it is this lack of solidarity that is forcing some of our eu countries, including my own sweden, to take measures that we would prefer not to see in europe and that are in fact endangering our entire cohesion.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the eu is also calling for a further €3 billion to be allocated to turkey to fund the reception of refugees and to strengthen its coastguard. i'm sorry, but the last i heard was 5 billion euros. firstly, how are the eu and the member states supposed to raise these enormous sums? that's right, the eu is supposed to be responsible for 500 billion euros and the member states for the rest, based on gdp. in principle, this would mean that my country, sweden, which took in almost 200 000 asylum seekers last year and borrowed money to finance this mass immigration, would now have to pay some 900 million swedish crowns to a corrupt country like turkey. turkey is seen as a transit country where very few migrants want to stay any longer. why do you think that the eu funds will help to stop the pressure or reduce it so that fewer people cross the mediterranean? if you look at the month of january, you can see that there were 13 times as many people from turkey as in the same month the year before. i wonder where the border patrol went, anyway. (the speaker accepted to answer a question ('blue card') in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the answer ('blue card'). yes, it is very strange, and i want to start by saying that i condemn all forms of racism, violence and murder. as we heard here, a young woman was murdered in a home for unaccompanied children as recently as two weeks ago. the other day, i heard about a home where the staff had to hide because of the aggression and violence in the home. you see what's happening, the fear we're talking about, a fear virus. our girls don't dare go to the bathhouse, you're afraid to be out in the city and cuddle. so why is this not brought up in the debate? that's certainly correct.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i have been listening since 3 o'clock and i must say that i am very disappointed with this debate and the level of debate in general. i am ashamed and appalled at what we have to listen to, and i am ashamed in front of our 500 citizens in europe. i think we're risking an insane amount right now. we are risking our dignity, we are risking the whole european project and we are risking the whole confidence in the european union as a project of the international community. if we cannot stand up for human rights, if we cannot defend humanism, then who will? we talk about isis, we talk about racism: they are based on the same ideology. we have it in europe and we have it to fight in the middle east. we must be steadfast and we must work together. the council's lack of respect for parliament and the commission is not worthy of cooperation. according to the latest amnesty report, eu officials are abusing children and women. commission, what are you going to do? we need to address these issues. it is our responsibility, as we said when we were elected, to stand up for the equal value of all human beings. if we fail to do so, we risk the whole of the european union and the future of europe.
madam president, while member states display divisions, children are dying at sea. we have to save all, and treat all coming to europe with dignity. it is the refugees who are in crisis, not us. for children, europe must mean safety and protection. you know what needs to be done; there are no national solutions – we have common rules on reception, registration, resettlement, relocation and return. what is missing is the political will from the member states. to the council: time to act together, share responsibility. at least give funding to improve conditions for refugees and give protection in jordan, lebanon and turkey, and step up the fight against smugglers by all means possible. strengthen the asylum support office and frontex. it is smugglers who should be afraid, not refugees. let’s face it: turkey is part of the solution – short term and long term – but not all coming to europe have the right to stay. that is why it is so important to take fingerprints and to differentiate between those who have the right to international protection and economic migrants. effective external border control is a precondition for freedom of movement in europe. internal border checks must be temporary and a last resort and must respect the rules. it is time for the member states to be serious about the cost of non-schengen, and the council is playing with fire.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thousands of people are fleeing war and oppression today to our continent of europe. our duty as fellow human beings to provide protection is crystal clear. the eu's treaties and rules also rightly place emphasis on human rights. the eu treaties also emphasise human rights, including the right to asylum. but now, when people seek refuge in europe on a larger scale, the european edifice is shaking. some, including members of my own european party, such as robert fico in slovakia, refuse to take responsibility. and worse, he's been piling up racist comments. president juncker has promised on several occasions that the commission will take a decision in january on the redistribution of responsibility from my home country, sweden, to the countries which have taken on less responsibility. can the commissioner confirm when that will be?
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the european parliament is doing important and systematic work to increase gender equality and our report on a new gender equality strategy is a good example. unfortunately, we find that the work on gender equality in the eu as a whole and in the commission in particular has stagnated. it is extremely serious because the lack of equality is a trampling on women's rights, and it is a democratic and social problem. i'm not going to bore you with statistics, but it's so incredibly clear that we live in a society where women don't have the same access to power and resources as men. that's something we have to change. we have a lot of work ahead of us, and to get anywhere in the work on gender equality we need political visions and concrete commitments. that is why the council wants a gender equality strategy. that is why we in parliament want a gender equality strategy. it's political leadership. the commission's current blocking of the development of a gender equality strategy is indeed an exercise of power and a display of a certain degree of patriarchal arrogance. no, we don't want to go back to our centuries-old tradition of oppressing women and oppressing lgbtq people. no, thank you. it is time to move on. it is time to get back on the commission. you can still come up with a gender equality strategy. it is time to throw off the patriarchal yoke and create a more feminist europe. this is what women and men out in europe expect, and a new gender equality strategy is a first step.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in december 2015, the commission announced that the envisaged post-2015 gender equality strategy would be given legal status by an internal working document rather than a public communication. the internal working document was named strategic commitment to gender equality between 20162019. the 341 meps who voted in favour of the post-2015 gender equality strategy are not only disappointed and outraged by the legal downgrade but also by the fact that the commission has now renamed the internal working document to something resembling an official strategy. it's a scam. as i have done so many times before, i now demand an answer from the commission. why are you failing to do what previous commissions have succeeded in doing, namely delivering a public message on a gender equality strategy? if the commission wants the eu to be a leading actor in, for example, the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals, i call on the commission: swallow your pride, do it again, do it right there is still time for that.
writer. president. - the debate is closed. hormone disruptors are everywhere in our daily lives and affect people. they are found in food packaging, in our children's toys, in our clothing and in our drinking water. researchers link these substances to a wide range of diseases: diabetes, cancer, and the risk of fertility problems. it is particularly alarming that babies, young children and foetuses are particularly vulnerable and that effects on these may persist later in life. many of us are concerned about the way it looks in our daily lives and the european parliament has been very active in pushing for proper legislation. the s&d group has also been pushing for a long time. i am now proud that sweden has pressed the commission to respect its obligations and to start the important work of drawing up scientific criteria for endocrine disruptors. but here we seem to have a commission that puts this on the back burner and gives itself the right to refuse to comply with eu law. the ruling of the european court of justice at the end of last year is clear. by failing to take action to adopt scientific criteria for endocrine disruptors, the commission has broken eu law and this is completely unacceptable. i therefore want to hear from the commission today that it will take action and correct its breach of the law. i also want to hear that the process of drawing up scientific criteria for endocrine disruptors will stop being delayed and that we will take up our responsibility and work to protect the health of the european population as we are obliged to do under the eu constitution. i expect the commission to be clear in this debate.
madam president, i would like to thank you. hormone disruptors can cause cancer and affect metabolism and fertility. fetuses and infants are particularly sensitive to the effects. exposure of a foetus to a hormone disrupting substance may have effects on brain development. the european commission was given the task of protecting people from endocrine disruptors. instead, they chose to take the matter to the court of last resort and protect the chemical industry. now the commission has been condemned by the court of justice for this. i think it is time for the commission to take its mission seriously and start protecting people, the environment and health rather than industrial interests.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the problem with you in here is that you don't listen to the people anymore. you've become like crocodiles: big mouths and no ears. gianni pittella says a virus is spreading, and he's right. the vast majority of people in here suffer from that virus, the virus called arrogance. arrogance in the face of the anxieties of the european people. worried about what's happening in their countries, worried about their daughters who can't walk safely on the streets, worried about the brutal violence that's only increasing, worried about the threat of terrorism, worried about their old age, worried about how they're going to cope, quite simply. but are you listening to their concerns? - i know. you're glowing with your arrogance, trying to educate the people on what they should or shouldn't like. it's your opinion that counts, and everything else is labeled with an ugly epithet. you have lost the confidence of the people because of your inability to listen to their concerns. i hope that britain leaves the eu and that this is the beginning of the end of this failure of the eu.
mr president, i should say in this debate that the european union is not working as it should. decisions are not being taken, although this is necessary and urgent. but the biggest problem is not in the european institutions but in the member states and their governments. in country after country the discussion revolves around ‘me’ and ‘we’ against ‘them’, against the refugees and against the other countries. we are asking the wrong questions. in sweden, in great britain and in poland we should instead be asking ourselves what our own responsibilities are, what leadership we can take and how we can contribute to making our part of the world a little better. great britain is a good example. it has a proud, honourable people and it should not be the hit-and-run driver. it should be the leader in europe and, instead, take that role for the future.
in writing. ‒ back in 2014, sweden democrats opposed the association agreement between the eu and georgia due to concerns over georgia’s future accession to the eu. when this agreement was signed both parties (the eu and georgia) agreed on a preferential trade regime. however the agreement contains a clause (article 27) called the ‘anti-circumvention mechanism’ which establishes an average annual volume of imports from georgia into the eu of certain agricultural products. when the volume of imports exceeds the annual volume georgia must provide the eu with justification that georgia has the capacity to produce the products concerned in excess, otherwise the eu may temporarily suspend preferential treatment for the products concerned for a period of six months. the anti-circumvention mechanism would therefore limit the amount of imports of certain agricultural products from georgia to the eu and would also avoid imports of non-georgian products via georgia using the advantages of the agreement’s provisions. to prevent a possible negative impact on the swedish market and more importantly to protect our swedish farmers’ best interests, sweden democrats supports this proposal for a regulation providing for the temporary suspension of tariff preferences of the association agreement between the eu and georgia.
in writing. – back in 2014, the sweden democrats opposed the association agreement between the eu and georgia due to concerns of georgia’s future accession to the eu. when this agreement was signed both parties (the eu and georgia) agreed on preferential trade regime. however the agreement contains a clause (article 27) that is called an ‘anti-circumvention mechanism’ which establishes an average annual volume of imports from georgia into the eu of certain agricultural products. when the volume of imports exceeds the annual volume, georgia shall provide the eu with a justification that georgia has the capacity to produce the products concerned in excess. by an absence of a duly justification the eu may temporarily suspend the preferential treatment for the products concerned for a period of 6 months. the anti-circumvention mechanism would therefore limit the amount of imports of certain agricultural products from georgia to the eu and would also avoid imports of non-georgian products via georgia using the advantages of the agreement’s provisions. in order to prevent a possible negative impact on the swedish market and more importantly to protect our swedish farmers’ best interests the sweden democrats are supporting this proposal for regulation providing the temporary suspension of tariff preferences of the association agreement between the eu and georgia.
‒ i voted against the objection to authorise the genetically modified soybean, mainly because we have to rely on science, i.e. if the european food safety authority (efsa) after evaluation considers a crop to be safe, that is what we should take as a starting point and nothing else. with a growing population and increasing climate threats, modern plant breeding is needed in europe. this includes modern techniques for growing crops and other plants that can feed the world's population and contribute to a better climate.
‒ i voted against the objection to authorise the genetically modified soybean, mainly because we have to rely on science, i.e. if the european food safety authority (efsa) after evaluation considers a crop to be safe, that is what we should take as a starting point and nothing else. with a growing population and increasing climate threats, modern plant breeding is needed in europe. this includes modern techniques for growing crops and other plants that can feed the world's population and contribute to a better climate.
‒ i voted against the objection to authorise the genetically modified soybean, mainly because we have to rely on science, i.e. if the european food safety authority (efsa) after evaluation considers a crop to be safe, that is what we should take as a starting point and nothing else. with a growing population and increasing climate threats, modern plant breeding is needed in europe. this includes modern techniques for growing crops and other plants that can feed the world's population and contribute to a better climate.
‒ the decision taken by the commission and the member states in the technical committee for motor vehicles on flexibility for car emission limits undermines the current legislation, which was already adopted in 2007. this is without any scientific basis being presented for the decision, and despite the fact that the technology to comply with the current limit values already exists, is not very expensive and is already being applied by several car manufacturers. the decision cannot therefore be interpreted as anything other than a concession to the part of the automotive industry that chose to invest in cheating the defective tests instead of investing in making its cars more environmentally friendly to meet the legal requirements and consumer expectations. the decision is thus a slap in the face to the responsible and environmentally conscious part of the automotive industry by depriving it of the rewards of its investment by virtually doubling the emission limits by 2020. for these reasons, i have voted to veto the decision.
‒ today the european parliament voted on the strategy for women's rights and gender equality in europe after 2015. a joint resolution by the socialist and liberal groups, among others, was tabled and voted on. it is a resolution which is very critical of the commission and calls on the commission to initiate new legislative processes. i don't share that view. on the contrary, the christian democrats have been strongly critical of many of the legislative proposals previously put forward by the commission in this area. this is not least a matter of eu regulation of parental leave. legislation to promote gender equality should be at national level, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the eu has much to gain from the eventual entry of an open and well-functioning serbia as a new member. it is therefore important that the eu speaks with one voice and conveys a unified message so that serbia has a stable counterpart to look to in the continuation of accession negotiations. i therefore welcome the european parliament's resolution which recognises the ambitious reform agenda that serbia has embarked upon and which calls on it to continue with the reforms required for future eu membership. it is particularly important to push serbia to guarantee the rule of law, media freedom, democracy and human rights. this is perhaps the criterion that the country is furthest from fulfilling, but which is crucial for european integration. in this work, the eu must ensure that serbia receives sufficient support to meet the requirements, because as much as we stand to gain from serbia's approach to the eu, we stand to lose from its choosing a different path.
madam president, i would like to thank you. in the negotiations between the eu and serbia, human rights are the most important area which will also determine how well the objectives in the other areas are achieved. there are still major gaps in the implementation of anti-discrimination legislation, particularly in the area of lgbtq rights. civil society in serbia today is doing a good and very important job and it is very important that it is supported in its activities and involved in all policy work on human rights based on the principles of democracy. during an afet/droi delegation visit to serbia last september, i raised the issue of increasing male violence against women with prime minister buzek, who said that they needed and would improve legislation to protect women who are victims of violence to eu standards. i want us to follow up on this, and consider it a very important security issue. as for the situation of the roma, it is very worrying in serbia. i am glad that the report has taken this up, it is a very important part of the report. but to succeed in this, we need... (the speaker declined a question ('blue card') from mr buonanno.)
on behalf of the ppe group.– madam president, the commission’s progress report has been issued at a significant time for kosovo. this parliament has just voted positively on the stabilisation and association agreement, an agreement that is not only important for the economy but also for kosovo’s integration within the eu. despite this, new and further steps need to be taken. two examples: firstly, visa liberalisation. many of us hope that the commission will find the necessary criteria fulfilled as soon as possible, not least because we know that such a move would send an important signal to the kosovars that the country’s pro-european alignment generates results. secondly, the establishment of an association for communities with a serbian majority is for the moment one of the most pressing issues facing kosovar politicians. a successful implementation will hopefully mean further steps on the way to normalisation with serbia and a return to a constructive relationship between government and opposition in pristina. the resolution we are debating today has been well prepared by ms lunacek and reflects the general view of parliament. in order to support the people of kosovo on their path towards the european union, the epp will vote for the resolution in the final vote.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the eu welcomes kosovo's accession and it will bring an end to an era of war and tragedy, while at the same time bringing a better future for kosovo. it is only to be hoped that it will be swift and that the necessary reforms will be implemented at a sufficient pace. that is why the question of the serb minority must be resolved soon. just as recognition of kosovo and normalisation of relations with kosovo are a condition for serbia's accession to the eu, an agreement with kosovo on the issue of the serb minority must be a condition for kosovo, and the eu must help in this. we cannot allow the honest and sincere efforts of a legitimately elected government to be undermined by the opposition for domestic political purposes. i expect the commission to send clear signals on this.
for the gue/ngl group. president. - the debate is closed. this is an important debate, because every girl growing up in our communities knows what it feels like to have her life space limited in public: in schools, on streets, in squares, at concerts, and on social media. everywhere there is harassment and threats of violence generated by a destructive, sexist and patriarchal culture of violence. as a public figure and a woman, i often receive sexist or threatening messages from men. in my case, it's from white men who've been violated. there are two things that need to be made clear in this debate. sexism and violence against women is a structural problem in europe and globally, and much, much, much more needs to be done to combat that violence. all women must be made right and the perpetrators must be punished. the police, the judiciary, everyone needs to get better. but what must also be said with conviction is that we who stand up against violence against women every day and who fight for a more feminist europe, we will not tolerate this right and extreme right using our bodies for racist smearing. because our fight for women's bodies, it's also for a life free of violence, a life where you can choose your sexuality, it's for free abortion, it's for freedom and equality for women, and it's all the things that you're working against in the mainstream. yesterday, when we debated in the chamber, there was an empty seat on the right, on the far right, because you do not care about women's bodies and women's lives. because you care about polarizing and creating threats and hatred. we won't let you stand in our way. we will stand up for equality and for women's rights every day in this parliament. (applause) i would like to thank you. (the speaker accepted to answer a question ('blue card') in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the answer ('blue card'). i can only say that every time we discuss gender equality and women's rights and women's rights to our bodies, your groups vote against our right to decide if we want to have an abortion and when we want to have children and that we want the right to sex education for young people, that women should have the right to choose their lives and that we should have economic equality. i call that opposing women's equality in europe today. we can't have you coming in here with racist bullshit and saying you're interested in protecting women's bodies. it's hypocrisy, that's all it is.
madam president, i would like to thank you. patriarchal fascism yes, i am glad that the problem of sexual harassment in public spaces is finally being discussed and that it has come up on our political agenda. i would like to emphasize that it is neither a new phenomenon nor limited by national boundaries, or by social, cultural or religious background. men's violence against women is a global pandemic that requires comprehensive policy solutions. one in three women in the eu has been the victim of violence and/or sexual harassment. one in four women in a relationship with a man has been the victim of violence by her partner. this means that the most dangerous place for women in europe to be is in their own homes. this is the most important security policy issue we face. the fact that half the eu population cannot feel safe in their own homes or in public places is a major security problem. so we need to deal with it now. this must therefore be part of the eu's security strategy. what is shocking about the cologne incident is not the background of the perpetrators, but that sexual harassment and other crimes can be committed in our society with impunity. the events in cologne are not unique, they are not uncommon. crimes like these are committed, as i said, all the time by men from different cultures, different social classes and different nationalities. that's what we have to stop now. it's good that we're getting some attention for this, even though it's from a completely different focus. but it also proves how important this issue is, that it is now being raised; now women are important. in sweden, there was a campaign that led to the stockholm mob this weekend. the campaign was against extremists, racists who wanted to protect their women, our women. i'm not their woman.
mr president, on behalf of the epp group i would say that i agree to ms lunacek’s suggestion. (mixed reactions)
mr president, i would like to thank you. serbia's negotiations and its approach to the eu are only to be welcomed. many of us hope that new chapters in the negotiations will be opened so that serbia and the other balkan countries will soon join. the problem is that you hesitate. there is still the idea that serbia can have two mothers, both the eu and russia, because while serbia is reaching out to the eu, it has not followed the eu's foreign policy towards russia. russia has been allowed to dominate serbia's energy market and thus exposed itself to future pressure. the european union is preparing a joint military exercise with russia and is backing statements aimed at splitting bosnia and herzegovina. it is therefore important to include in the report an encouragement to serbia to continue on the path of eu accession. that is where serbia's future lies. it is also important to encourage the commission to help serbia to break away from russia. serbia can be the eu's bridge to russia, but then you have to be part of the eu first. i would like to add that to my vote and that is why i am voting for both serbia and it is in the interest of the eu and serbia to make this possible.
in writing. - i've turned my voice down. i believe that serbia's integration process and its possible future membership of the eu should be decided by the people of serbia. integration requires many economic, social and political changes that affect society as a whole. in the end, the best form of a decision that is popular is a referendum. that's why i'm gonna lower my voice.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the eu welcomes the accession of kosovo to the eu. i hope that this will be done quickly and that kosovo and other balkan countries will soon be part of the eu. in this context, i would like to recall that dialogue and the normalisation of relations with the serb minority in kosovo should be a condition for kosovo's accession. just as recognition of kosovo/normalisation of relations with kosovo is a condition for serbia, an agreement on special rights for serb minorities is a condition for kosovo. therefore, i would like to add the following: the legitimately elected government of kosovo has made honest and sincere attempts to reach an agreement. i would encourage the opposition not to try to obstruct these talks for domestic political purposes. the question of eu membership is bigger than that and should not be misused in an internal political struggle. all parties must take responsibility. i choose to support the report because it expresses both the eu and kosovo's willingness to solve problems and to move the accession process forward.
in writing. - i've turned my voice down. i believe that the process of kosovo's integration, and eventual future membership of the eu, should be decided by the people of kosovo. integration requires many economic, social and political changes that affect society as a whole. in the end, the best form of a decision that is popular is a referendum. that's why i'm gonna lower my voice.
in writing. - i've turned my voice down. the resolution contains several important proposals and positions. however, it lacks a self-critical analysis of how the us, nato and several eu countries' military interventions were carried out, as well as the lack of a plan for how democracy and a functioning state would be built in libya after the events of 2011. in the absence of such an analysis, and in support of nato's involvement, i shall abstain.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution calling on the un, the international court of justice and others to consider isis's extermination of religious minorities as genocide. i support that view, but at the same time i would like to stress that the concept of genocide is a legal term and that international agreements dictate both how the international community determines that genocide has been committed and how it requires states and institutions to act. the question of whether genocide in the legal sense is committed must therefore ultimately be determined by the legal systems in place for that purpose. i call, by my vote in favour of the resolution, for the process laid down in the 1948 un convention on the prevention and punishment of the crime of genocide and crimes against humanity to be accelerated.
mr president, i would like to thank you. if instead of travelling here to strasbourg to tell the commissioner this, i travelled by train from my home town of sarajevo to the commissioner's home town, this journey of some 800 km would take 45 hours. i am infinitely grateful that the commissioner has come here, it is much easier for both of us, even though the distance is almost four times as great. this is of course unacceptable; the lack of rail and road links has created enormous communication problems in the region. this lack has hampered economic development, damaged jobs, reduced the movement of goods, services and people, damaged tourism, created problems with energy supply and exacerbated the climate challenge. i am therefore pleased to welcome the commission's efforts. finally, you can say! let us hope that the efforts will be swift and that the money will eventually be more, that the enlargement to the balkans will be more extensive and that the follow-up will be sufficiently frequent so that travel to the region will no longer feel like an absurdity.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. i agree with what has been said: that the illegal trade in pet animals is a serious public health risk. it is not just the spread of diseases such as rabies, but also antibiotic resistance. i also agree with those who say that the illegal trade is a significant source of income for the mafia in europe. that's also true, that's right. it is obvious that many member states today have shortcomings in the control of their pet animals. tighter rules on data-driven registration would reduce this problem, but all this must be done at member state level. a european database would have no added value at all, it would cost more than it creates and it is very unclear who will create it? who's going to update it? and how is that to be done at all? forgive me for saying this, but we are not even able to register all the refugees who come to europe. and now some people want us to try and register all the cats and dogs that are in europe. it's impossible to do, simply impossible. this is the kind of task the eu should not be doing. the new eu animal health act, for which i have taken responsibility, is about to be finally adopted by the european parliament. it allows the commission to require countries to establish national databases on dogs and cats. so what you're asking for is already there. the new law also implies more measures and registration requirements to tackle the illegal trade we have heard about and which was discussed here: the problem of stray dogs. so the tools to solve the problem will soon be in place, if we can just hold out for a while until they become effective. (the speaker accepted to answer three questions ('blue cards') in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the answer ('blue card'). thank you so much for asking. the problem with this question is that it is true that there are health measures that need to be taken, but they will not be carried out at european level. there will be no european commission to carry out the measures you are talking about. they will be carried out on a national basis, and that is why we need national registers. i do not see how a european database would improve the ability to carry out the necessary measures at national level.
the answer ('blue card'). thank you for asking. any action that needs to be taken in this matter should be taken at national level. there is nothing the eu will do except what you want, namely to create a register. and that registry will be impossible to create because, excuse me for saying so, cats have free sex lives. how are you going to hunt parents? there's no way to make that happen. simply because the measures that need to be taken should be taken at national level. the health measures that we need to put in place, the measures... there should also be a possibility of registration to prevent the problems you are talking about, and all this should be done nationally. turning it into a task for the eu to do is only creating a bureaucracy that is not needed in this case.
the answer ('blue card'). i agree that we do not need a central european register. that is exactly what i was trying to point out, and the measures you are calling for will be in the new eu animal health act which will be coming into force soon. that's exactly what we're talking about: registration that's there. it is possible in that law to require countries to establish national databases of dogs and cats in order to prevent the illegal trade we are talking about. it will be at national level, and i do not see why we should extend it to a level where it cannot be maintained.
blue-card question. – mr brok, i believe that the deal, which lacks recognition of the moral right of non-eurozone countries to stay outside the failed experiment of the euro, is lacking something. would you agree that a deal in due course needs to be completed on that?
madam president, i think it is striking that, in the discussions we have had this afternoon, very few of the points put forward by the ‘antis’ are discussing the problems we are facing. this is not only about the european union and how we would like the european union to develop. this is about europe and its stability, security and prosperity and its challenges – putin, russia and ukraine and provocations against a number of european member states. of course, we know that a lot of those who are ‘anti’ would be happy to give in to putin: they have voted that way here. we have the need for economic recovery and prosperity, but of course a lot of those on that side do not want open markets. but if we look upon the problems regarding stability – putin, the fall of states in the middle east and northern africa, the refugee crisis and climate policies – i do not think anyone can see how we can solve these problems or deal with these problems without being unified. those who would like to see fragmentation would only honour the hopes of the putins, the le pens and the extremists in the middle east and in europe. we must defeat them, and the united kingdom must understand how important the united kingdom is in europe. (applause) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i must say, i am quite convinced that the people of europe give priority to the stability and security of our part of the world. they want peace and they see the threats. they want us to have a responsible energy policy, climate policy and environmental policy, and it is up to us to ensure that we can deal with that and show the way. it is interesting that no one in this chamber has said this afternoon that we can solve these problems better by going alone, because when you are alone you are alone in a world that needs unity.
mr president, the terrorist attacks in tunisia have had a tremendous impact on that country’s already weak economy. therefore, the commission’s initiative on additional exports of olive oil is to be welcomed. i hear some honourable members complaining about the disastrous impact that additional imports will have, but the numbers tell a different story. europeans are consuming more or less the same amount of oil as every year, but our production has decreased by almost 50% and the amount of oil that will eventually come into the eu from tunisia is about 1.7%. my question to these members is: in what way will one additional per cent destroy a european market which is lacking 48%? i can tell you how it will affect tunisians: olive oil employs more than one million people; it is tunisia’s main agricultural export, it brings growth, and it prevents despair. for us it is nothing, but for tunisia it is a big deal. i hope that parliament will show the promised solidarity in the vote tomorrow.
madam president, the importance of the eu stabilisation and association agreement with kosovo is tremendous. the agreement sends a clear signal to the citizens of kosovo that we stand behind their european aspirations and paves the way for a more democratic and prosperous kosovo. however, as we stand here, the agreement and the european path of kosovo is being jeopardised. the opposition has been throwing tear gas grenades in the parliament, and they are staging day and night protests against the actions of the legitimately—elected government to implement the requirements under the agreement. the european parliament and the european commission have to send a clear signal that normalisation of kosovo’s relations with serbia, and respect for minorities, is a precondition for kosovo’s european integration. the agreement has to be respected, whoever is ruling kosovo. by sending that signal we will, hopefully, make it clear that the european integration of kosovo is more important than the internal political fight for power and that the integration process should not be misused for the wrong purposes.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i would like to congratulate the european ombudsman, emily o’reilly, on her excellent work and personally thank you, emily, for the good cooperation between you and your institution and my committee. it is always a pleasure working with you. jag uppskattar att ombudsmannen särskilt har inriktat sig på öppenhetsrelaterade frågor och transparens, som en garanti för god förvaltning. ombudsmannen spelar en mycket viktig roll när det gäller att hjälpa eu:s institutioner att bli mer öppna, effektiva och inte minst medborgarvänliga, eftersom det bidrar till att allmänheten får ökat förtroende för vår union. en fråga som varit särskilt viktig under det år som vi talar om, dvs. 2014, är ombudsmannens arbete i relation till frontex. det är av vikt att frontex får tillräckligt med egen materiel och personal för att kunna garantera ett hållbart skydd av våra yttre gränser och säkerställa samma funktion överallt i eu. jag välkomnar därför särskilt att kommissionen har tagit hänsyn till ombudsmannens synpunkter i det nya förslaget kring frontex, om att inrätta en mekanism för enskilda klagomål över potentiella kränkningar av de grundläggande rättigheterna. jag välkomnar också ombudsmannens undersökningar av medborgarnas rätt till deltagande i eu:s beslutsprocess. i relation till detta vill jag också uppmärksamma er på en utredning som presenterats i sverige, det land som jag känner bäst, som visar på mycket stor okunskap gällande eu:s institutioners roll. detta är oroande, eftersom det minskar medborgarnas möjlighet att aktivt delta och skapa inflytande i frågor som vi beslutar om i eu. i en välmående demokrati behöver nämligen den som vill påverka politiska beslut ha förutsättningar att göra det. det offentliga samtalet runtom i våra medlemsländer bidrar ofta inte till detta. ett mer aktivt offentligt samtal skulle ha kunnat förbättra de demokratiska förutsättningarna. i det sammanhanget är det viktigt att alla institutioner tar ett större ansvar för att förmedla information, föra dialog och öka människors kunskap. det är viktigt att vi tar vårt ansvar och vår tid för att informera om detta. tillsammans kan vi hjälpas åt att förbättra kunskapen om eu och öka känslan av delaktighet hos våra medborgare. för ditt engagemang och för ombudsmannens engagemang vill jag än en gång framföra ett stort tack.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the concept of international refugee protection has gradually changed and now includes a very distorted interpretation of the convention on human rights. the problem is that the majority of the refugees we take in are actually economic migrants, and only 10 to 20 percent of those who come here are granted refugee status. a large number of people who are not entitled to asylum in europe must therefore expect to be returned - often under duress. from a human rights perspective, return cannot be seen as an offence and the ombudsman's proposal that frontex should set up a special service to receive and deal with complaints from migrants who consider themselves ill-treated during return is the result of a policy that is not realistic. personally, i feel that the proposal is just another piece of the machinery of those politicians who are against the organised and effective return of illegal migrants.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the introduction of urgent autonomous trade measures for tunisia. tunisia's economy has been hit hard by the terrorist attacks. the commission proposes zero tariffs for imports of olives from tunisia for the period 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2017 for the levels already agreed for imports of olives. olive growing accounts for one fifth of tunisia's agricultural employment and employs more than one million people. the left party supports increased trade in the agricultural sector for this region. however, the very central and important issue of debt cancellations was not addressed. i believe that debt relief for tunisia is a better way of supporting the country's economy, both in the short and long term, and i would like to see an economic policy that goes in that direction.
‒ repeated terrorist attacks have dealt a severe blow to tunisia's already weak economy. the eu commission has therefore proposed temporary measures to support tunisia. i am convinced that an annual duty-free import quota of 35 000 tonnes of olive oil will be of great importance to tunisia, since olive oil is the country's main export product and the sector employs about one million people. i do not share the view that the proposal has a detrimental effect on the eu market, since eu own production has recently, for various reasons, decreased by some 48%, and tunisian olive oil accounts for some 1,7% of european consumption. these temporary measures are not sufficient, but i still choose to support the proposal, regretting that protectionism has managed to creep into the final resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today. i am doing so in order to provide the workers in this case with financial support for retraining and/or other measures to find new jobs. however, i would like to stress that the widespread unemployment in the eu could be effectively combated if the austerity policies pursued for a long time by the commission and the governments of the member states were stopped. to create new jobs in europe, a new economic policy with massive public and environmentally friendly investments is needed. investments for the benefit of society are required not only in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
‒ free trade is a continuation of economic prosperity and in turn individual freedom. that is why i strongly object to the european globalisation adjustment fund, which is an expression of protectionism. for this reason, i believe that the fund should be wound up in an orderly manner.
in writing. - i voted against all three reports. the basic tone of all three reports is one of support for the economic policy which sets the framework for the european semester. i am opposed to the eu's market-liberal line, austerity policy, privatisation and deregulation. opposition to this policy is growing throughout the eu. i note that in the reports, particularly those by mr rodrigues, there are attempts to criticise the policy pursued and some arguments in favour of stimulus measures. however, it is not clear enough for me to vote in favour.
‒ we voted in favour of the european parliament's report on the commission's annual growth survey. we are opposed to proposals that the eu budget could be used to offset national budgets through own resources. it ignores the different responsibilities and the competences at national and community level, as well as the extent of the common budget in relation to the national ones. of course, increased spending on fisheries, regional policy or research does not offset the costs of schooling, education, police, justice, defence or social security. rather, it is important that the common budget focuses on the common tasks at eu level and on the major future investments needed rather than subsidising agriculture and old business structures, while safeguarding important commitments and the conditions for economic growth through responsible budgetary policies and structural reforms in the member states. that is how we can face the economic problems that many member states are facing.
‒ we are in favour of raising minimum wages in the eu to reduce poverty and combat wage dumping. unlike in most countries, there is no statutory minimum wage in sweden, but wages are set by collective agreements between the social partners without direct political interference. we therefore believe that minimum wages should not be regulated by law, but that national practices in each individual member state must be taken into account in order to strengthen collective agreements and workers' rights in the different wage systems.
in writing. - i voted against all three reports. the basic tone of all three reports is one of support for the economic policy which sets the framework for the european semester. i am opposed to the eu's market-liberal line, austerity policy, privatisation and deregulation. opposition to this policy is growing throughout the eu. i note that in the reports, particularly those by mr rodrigues, there are attempts to criticise the policy pursued and some arguments in favour of stimulus measures. however, it is not clear enough for me to vote in favour.
‒ we are in favour of raising minimum wages in the eu to reduce poverty and combat wage dumping. unlike in most countries, there is no statutory minimum wage in sweden, but wages are set by collective agreements between the social partners without direct political interference. we therefore believe that minimum wages should not be regulated by law, but that national practices in each individual member state must be taken into account in order to strengthen collective agreements and workers' rights in the different wage systems.
in writing. - i voted against all three reports. the basic tone of all three reports is one of support for the economic policy which sets the framework for the european semester. i am opposed to the eu's market-liberal line, austerity policy, privatisation and deregulation. opposition to this policy is growing throughout the eu. i note that in the reports, particularly those by mr rodrigues, there are attempts to criticise the policy pursued and some arguments in favour of stimulus measures. however, it is not clear enough for me to vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted against the eu-tunisia free trade agreement. the resolution deals with the opening of negotiations on a comprehensive trade agreement with tunisia. the country is in dire economic straits after the terrorist attacks in sousse, which basically stopped all tourism. trade with tunisia is therefore positive. however, the proposed agreement will cover, inter alia, the service sector, public procurement and agriculture, and may benefit eu companies rather than the tunisian economy. that is the wrong direction for economic policy. i want to see an economic policy that focuses on debt cancellations for tunisia, because that is a better way to support the country's economy, both in the short and long term - an economy that is based on solidarity and not on free trade.
‒ i welcome the opening of negotiations on a free trade agreement between the eu and tunisia and hope that the agreement will be ambitious, creating great opportunities for growth and jobs, not only for tunisia but also for the eu. i have chosen to vote in favour of this proposal, even though the measures for a temporary duty-free import quota for olive oil from tunisia which parliament has just approved were watered down. i hope that these temporary measures will be part of the future free trade agreement.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by thanking all the shadow rapporteurs for a fantastic job. this is a complicated and large team, and without your broad support and your skill, we would not have achieved the good results we have. i would also like to thank the european commission, which has shown real skill in terms of creativity and flexibility in the negotiations. i would also like to thank the latvian presidency in particular. its dedication to this issue has given us a unique opportunity to reach an agreement which is very pleasing to parliament. the result was the first european law to establish the link between animal welfare, animal health and public health. all in accordance with the principle of 'one health'. the infectious diseases that the law is intended to address, such as avian influenza, also threaten human health. the same is true of the spread of antibiotic-resistant bacteria. all in all, this new law gives us much better preparedness and better tools to deal with future outbreaks and to focus on prevention, prevention. the core requirements of the act also include the obligation for each animal keeper to apply the principles of good animal husbandry and responsible use of veterinary medicinal products. in other words, in the future it will be much more difficult to mask poor animal husbandry with antibiotics. the law also addresses the problem of stray dogs in europe. the national authorities are obliged, when taking measures to control the spread of infection to wild and feral animals, to avoid any unnecessary pain and suffering to the animals. the eu is also proposing to introduce a new system of registration of breeders and sellers of dogs, and to give the european commission a mandate to adopt eu rules on dog registration should the need arise. in addition, the horizontal and therefore extra complicated issue of delegated and implementing acts has been successfully resolved. the result is that parliament retains power over the political issues, the most important of which concerns the list of diseases to be covered by the animal health act, while the technical decisions are made on a scientific basis. this and much more is now part of the package we are voting on tomorrow. this law will be an important step in the fight against antibiotic resistance in animals and humans and in the environment. more than 50 years of eu legislation divided into 39 different pieces of legislation will now be replaced by a clear framework with clear principles and objectives. it is a shining example of the fact that it is possible to simplify the eu's animal rules. my predecessor, marit paulsen, has been doing most of the work on this, and i am grateful to have had the privilege of completing this work. recently, the agreed law was approved unanimously by the committee on agriculture. i hope that you too, ladies and gentlemen, will vote in favour of this important agreement tomorrow.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i wholeheartedly support the new animal health act. it's a step in the right direction for food safety. antibiotic resistance has become a matter of life and death for human health. many consumers are concerned about the residues of medicines in animals when they eat meat. i welcome the fact that the legislation links animal health and human health and that the focus is on preventing infectious diseases in animals rather than curing animals that are sick. it is also important to simplify the rules and focus on measures to reduce the use of antibiotics and treat only those animals that are sick. the uniform and fair use of medicines is also important for our farmers to compete on equal terms. mr president, it seems that it is time for all member states to implement the responsible use of veterinary medicinal products. (the speaker agreed to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
blue-card answer. – yes, as i said, many people are really concerned about the excessive use of antibiotics, both in animals and in human beings. this regulation is about animals, but the link has finally been clearly made, based on science, that it can be transferred. the antibiotics and the medicines that are given to animals can be transferred to human beings. that is why it is so important.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. thank you, colleagues, for your support and your comments. let me just emphasize once again the importance of this agreement. this is the first time that a european law has established the link between animal welfare, animal health and public health. the new law will give us better preparedness and better tools to deal with serious disease outbreaks in the future. there is a lot of suffering in both humans and animals that can be avoided and, to add to that, a lot of money can be saved for society in the form of reduced health care costs. money that in these times can be used for other things. the law, if passed tomorrow, will be an important step in the fight against antibiotic resistance in both humans and animals and in our environment. i would also like to mention that it is very gratifying that a whole range of key organisations have supported the law, from the european veterinary association to copa-cogeca, the european animal welfare movement and many others who have supported this law, which shows the breadth of our agreement. i sincerely hope that tomorrow parliament will embrace this law with broad agreement. i would like to thank you for your cooperation, both the shadow rapporteur, the commissioner and the commission, the council and all of you who have contributed to the work on this law.
madam president, i think it is important to underline one thing and that is that the data-driven economy is nothing new. that change has already taken place, and in those parts of our economies that are the most data-driven we see most of the growth and development of prosperity. that is how things are, so let us not talk about this as something new and magic. it is rather about ensuring that we can be the best at processing data, because data is knowledge. knowledge can be distributed, allocated and used in a way that we have never seen before in the modern economy. for us this is much more about catching up regarding cyber—security and securing the free flow of information, combined with the rules on privacy, consumer legislation and copyright; adapting our society to be a strong society benefiting from these opportunities that are already there. i think it is quite easy in one way and that is that, if we want to, we can decide that we should be the best. of course, earlier speakers, mr schaffhauser and others, think we are living in the 19th century. we are not. we can decide to take the lead, have the best 5g, the best fibre, open up the best capacities and enable our society to be the best. that is a decision we can take and i think we should take that decision. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i appreciate that question very much because it gives me the opportunity to underline another thing. data is not a magic digital issue. it is knowledge, and knowledge has the character that it can be distributed very rapidly and it can be divided very many times. i can give you knowledge and you can give me knowledge and we will still have the same knowledge with us. that is the magic of knowledge, it is not about data. my feeling and understanding is that most of the data is, for example, the internet of things and the internet of everything – that is not personal data. but in the data-driven economy we can safeguard the personal data that we want to safeguard at the same time as we can increase the levels of cyber security, and still on the aggregated level use the data for the development of health, research, science. a lot of people over there and maybe over there do not want that, but i think we can reach a common understanding on how to use data, the knowledge, safeguarding privacy but also safeguarding european leadership.
madam president, i would like to thank you. in the eu we do not respect the human rights of women. women do not have the right to decide, they do not earn as much money as men, they do not participate in the labour market to the same extent, they do more unpaid work and they are poorer. poverty particularly affects older women, as a result of a life without full rights. the discrimination is in the stock of stock. for example, a roma woman is also affected by the increased racism in the eu in the form of discrimination and social exclusion. a lesbian or transsexual woman is also affected by the hatred that exists in society against lgbtq people. there are numbers on this. politicians talk about it just like we do now. they say that it is not right, that it has costs both human and economic, but that these are human rights violations which are unfortunately accepted, because otherwise they would have done something about it long ago. gender equality policy is something that is mentioned but not given priority. a telling example is how the commission has reduced the eu's work on gender equality to a technicality, the work that should be guided by a politically anchored strategy outlining how women and men in the eu should have equal power over their lives. as a feminist, i find this completely unacceptable. the eu shall have a high standard of human rights and gender equality. it's about our core values. how long are we going to have a society where women, minorities and other vulnerable people are second-class citizens? what can we call ourselves as long as we do nothing about it? nothing but hypocrites. personally, i don't celebrate the 8th of march. i think it's a manifesto for the inequality that we just experience every day. i don't want a flower today, for example. it just proves that out of 365 days, 364 are not our days. (the speaker agreed to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the i agree with you, soraya post. i'm not celebrating international women's day today either. it should be given daily attention and everyone, both women and men, should help. my question to you, soraya, is this: do you think it would help a little if we had a gender equality strategy like the commission had before, as a message to the member states? do you think it would be better for the eu if we had this gender equality strategy, instead of just an internal document?
the answer ('blue card'). yes, i am absolutely convinced that strong signals are needed in the member states, and a gender equality strategy as before is absolutely preferable. i'm sure you will. (the speaker agreed to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
the answer ('blue card'). yes, it is absolutely necessary to divide the parental responsibility for their children equally between men and women, but i do not see what the 8th of march has to do with it. that is why i believe that we are fighting 24 hours a day for our rights, for a society in which we want our children to grow up, in which girls and boys can develop and live to their full potential until the grave. from the cradle to the grave. that's my goal.
for the gue/ngl group. president. - the debate is closed. international women's day is a day to highlight the feminist struggle that goes on every day of the year, and today we focus on strengthening the rights of refugee and immigrant women. that's exactly right. i shall concentrate on two things, safe escape routes and family reunification, although there are many other things which are important in this report. safe escape routes are particularly important for women and girls, as their escape route makes them particularly vulnerable. safe roads, humanitarian corridors are therefore of particular importance. the fact that the eu is now closing its borders is particularly hard on women and girls, and that is why the eu has chosen an unacceptable path. family reunification: the restrictions imposed by several countries through temporary residence permits and difficult family reunification are a blow to all family members, but especially to women and children who are more often left behind in insecure and uncertain conflict zones. separating children from their parents and parents from their children is inhumane and it must stop. finally, the left group fully supports this report and i am sorry that the right group and the racists do not do the same. solidarity does not seem to apply when it comes to women refugees and migrants. (the speaker agreed to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the it is sad that so many young male migrants were behind the sexual attacks and rapes of european women in cologne and stockholm in 2015. it is also sad that the authorities, the police and the media covered this up for fear of the reaction of the citizens. if we cannot even be honest and safe on the streets of the eu for our own women, how are we going to protect refugee women and girls from the same kind of sexual assault and rape that they just fled from?
the answer ('blue card'). your flagship is pitting people against people and welfare against refugees. you're hypocrites and you're full of lies. at the same time, you have no project to build a community that builds together and holds together. your future is a deep, dark, dead end.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the world is on fire, and people who weren't as fortunate as we are to live in democratic, prosperous countries are fleeing for their lives. i would like to thank mary honeyball for her fine work on this report. when we discuss important issues such as how to distribute asylum seekers between member states or how to control the eu's external borders, it is very easy to forget the people who face these systems, but this report brings out in a meritoriously balanced way the challenges and problems faced by women refugees. unfortunately, i am concerned today that the conservatives in this house want to destroy the report and to undermine the terrible suffering of women refugees. i cannot believe that today, on the very day of the women's day, you will vote to make invisible the particular oppression of refugee women and to deny them the right to sexual and reproductive health, something that is necessary after the sexual violence they have experienced. i think we should send a clear signal that we're doing everything we can... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, more and more asylum seekers coming to europe are women and children. women are often alone with their kids. women and girls are at risk of trafficking, sexual exploitation and violence during the journey, but even when they are in europe safety and privacy must be assured. separate sanitary and sleeping facilities are essential. access to healthcare, including reproductive health, must be granted to women in need. the detention of girls must be avoided. safe places for children in reception facilities while their mothers are being interviewed for asylum should be provided. women who have undergone trauma need psychological and physical support. we have common rules on asylum and trafficking: now it is time for the member states to implement them. building capacity and ensuring training for police and other officials on gender-based violence is important to identify victims and increase protection and prevention. children must be given access to education. for girls, school means empowerment and often also protection from violence, such as child marriage. access to language training and work for refugee women is also key for equality and successful integration. today, on international women’s day, we should be able to tell women and girls who are arriving in europe, fleeing war and violence, that they are not alone. europe means safety for them. let us join forces to protect them and put their dignity at the centre of our debate.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, i would like to thank mr grandi for his statements. mr grandi, you have taken up the post as high commissioner at a time when unprecedented numbers of refugees have been approaching our shores. within the space of two generations the refugee crisis has followed a financial crisis, and we can see how it is continuing to challenge the perception of our commitment to providing international protection to those entitled it. in europe we tend to forget that we are living ever longer and, despite all our troubles, are still the richest continent on the planet. the very core of the global asylum system is currently being questioned by people who would prefer that the right of asylum was not an imperative right of an oppressed individual, but rather a kindness to be extended or withheld by the 28 member states individually. i fear that in a world where states could choose whether to help refugees or not a lot of people in need would be left without protection, with irreversible tragic consequences, a cynical approach whereby the rich west dumps the challenges involved in receiving refugees onto developing third countries in order to sit back and hide behind walls, maybe sending a cheque every now and then so as to pretend to care. that is not an eu to which i wish to contribute and, as the spokesperson on migration for the liberal and democrat group and the rapporteur for this house on the upcoming revision of the dublin regulation, i can only give you, high commissioner, a clear message that liberals and democrats in europe will always stand up for the right to asylum. whereas some people in this chamber will claim that the choice is an either/or, that is to say, either you support the unhcr or you support the fundamental individual right of asylum, we will stand firmly by you and explain that you need both for the system to work. and, by the way, the unhcr should be getting a lot more support, not least financially, from the eu. we are living in challenging times, but let us realise that this continent has never been in better shape to manage these challenges. you can count on my support and the support of my group for your invaluable work and i look forward to cooperating with you in the days to come in the same way as i cooperated with your predecessor.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the un, and unhcr in particular, is a key actor in upholding respect for international asylum law. that's why it's so important that you're here with us today. i think it is unfortunate that you have not been invited to take on greater responsibility for the way the eu is shaping its response to the refugee situation, and your words today make me even more convinced of that concern. you also give us the larger perspective that yes, there is a global refugee crisis going on but we don't have a refugee crisis here in europe. you're raising smart things, important things, like that we need to strengthen the rights and safety of female refugees. we have debated this this morning and we will vote on a very good report later. you say that the eu must take in more people and that we must do so in a way that shares responsibility between our countries. you're saying that the closed-border policy is not the way to go. we need to create legal avenues. we agree with you. we need to do a better job of helping unaccompanied children and we need to do a better job of our reception systems. i was in calais yesterday, and the situation i witnessed there, it is not compatible with human rights. we invite you to visit calais to see and witness the situation and to evaluate the conditions there. you say that we must fight racism and islamophobia in europe. we agree with you. last but not least, we cannot allow greece to become a refugee camp. we must share responsibility. mr grandi, the way in which the eu is now trying to deal with turkey to keep the refugees away is not in any way in line with your proposals, not at all. allowing refugees to return on the same boat they arrived on is simply not in line with international asylum law. thank you for your attention. it is with great concern that we see that the eu is not standing up for the right to asylum. we need your support and your pressure on the eu at this stage.
in writing. - i've put my vote down. the report is well-intentioned in that it seeks to increase the availability of fruit and milk to school children. it is about creating better nutrition and food knowledge, but there are also strong lobbying interests from the dairy industry that want more eu funds. in addition, a substantial part of the funds will be used to promote and market the eu as a project. the result is a report with good intentions but which actually maximises the benefits to the dairy industry and marketing for the eu. that's not enough to vote for the motion, and that's why i've abstained.
‒ the draft law aims to bring together the eu school milk and school fruit programmes into a single programme. in addition, in the context of the merger of the programmes, additional products have been added to fresh milk. simplifying legislation is commendable, but i do not think it is the eu's responsibility to be responsible for school milk and school fruit. the member states must be responsible here. in view of this, i have decided to vote against the report as a whole.
in writing. we swedish social democrats in the european parliament have long had a negative attitude towards european market measures for agricultural products, which has been clear when we voted on related budget items. we still think that the distribution of agricultural products and milk etc. should not be a european issue and have not changed our basic attitude to this. however, since the regulation is a merger of several programmes already in place, for the sake of reducing administrative burdens and simplification, we have supported improved criteria for the programme.
‒ the draft law, which aims to bring together the eu's school milk and school fruit programmes into a single programme, is designed to help schools offer fresh food to children across the eu. i welcome the purpose of the draft law but do not think that this is a matter for the eu, but that it should be up to the member states to meet it. i therefore think that we should vote against the proposal in principle. however, the situation in many member states, as a result of the economic crisis, is such that milk and fruit from this programme is the only way for many children to get these products into school. that is why i have decided to abstain in this vote.
‒ the draft law aims to bring together the eu school milk and school fruit programmes into a single programme. in addition, in the context of the merger of the programmes, additional products have been added to fresh milk. simplifying legislation is commendable, but i do not think it is the eu's responsibility to be responsible for school milk and school fruit. the member states must be responsible here. in view of this, i have decided to vote against the report as a whole.
‒ i voted to postpone the vote on the legislative resolution so that negotiations can begin. in the vote on the content of the resolution i voted in favour of the key amendments which emphasise collective agreements, defend labour law and fundamental social rights and take a stand against privatisation.
in writing. ‒ today the european parliament voted on a report on gender mainstreaming in parliament's work. like any workplace, the european parliament needs to actively work on gender equality. women and men shall be treated equally and given equal opportunities in the internal work of parliament. it is also important to include the gender perspective when parliament is considering different proposals. i voted in favour of the report on that basis. however, there are parts of the report which i criticise, namely the proposals for too much bureaucracy linked to this work and various forms of internal quotas. i voted against these parts in separate votes.
‒ today the european parliament voted on a report on the situation of women refugees in the eu. there is broad agreement that women migrants are particularly vulnerable, and that migration policy also needs to be analysed from a gender perspective. that is why i voted in favour of the report. i also agree with the report's call for legal pathways for migrants and for a redistribution mechanism between eu member states. as regards the report's comments on access to sexual and reproductive health for migrants in the member states, i maintain my view that the eu should respect the responsibility for health policy at national level.
the european parliament's committee on women's rights has called for the eu to be more active in the fight against violence against women. we think it's important to recognize that women and girls fleeing conflict are particularly vulnerable. they often travel alone with their children and are therefore particularly vulnerable to violence, even when they reach europe. the report draws attention to the need for separate sleeping areas, toilets and shower rooms. it also called for the provision of care, including sexual and reproductive health care, and safe spaces where women can leave their children during asylum interviews. it also called for training of officials and police in gender-based violence to enable them to identify and prevent victims of trafficking and sexual exploitation at an early stage. the member states are invited to implement the common rules on asylum and the rules on combating trafficking. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the rights of asylum seekers are respected and that the eu is able to provide for the return of refugees.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, during the last few months this continent has been faced with an unprecedented number of refugees fleeing from conflicts and oppression. the response from national leaders has frankly been quite pathetic. we have seen calls for systematic mass refoulement of refugees at our borders, in obvious contravention of international humanitarian laws and the treaties and laws of the union. we have seen the reintroduction of internal border controls despite calculations from the bertelsmann institute indicating that only the financial cost of the collapse of schengen could be as high as eur 1.4 trillion over a 10-year period. we have seen member states engaging in a race to the bottom with regard to the reception standards for refugees, hoping that this would push them elsewhere. but what we have not witnessed, however, is european leadership and a willingness to move towards the only solution that can in the long-term return sovereignty and control of the situation to the peoples of europe. in other words, joint action with the community method to ensure a fair, reasonable division of the responsibilities for the people fleeing. what we need is for us to manage our borders together, to share the responsibility for receiving refugees together, to find ways to repatriate those that do not meet the criteria for international protection, and that we do this together under dignified conditions. commissioner avramopoulos and first vice-president timmermans, keep up the good work within the commission and propose now a true european solution, not least in the upcoming dublin reforms. it is high time for the commission and this parliament to take the lead, together with a few courageous leaders we still can count on in council. why? because europe simply deserves it today.
madam president, i would like to thank you. schengen can and should only be re-established by ensuring that eu countries share responsibility for receiving refugees. but instead of putting all the fuel into shared responsibility for reception and putting together a sufficiently large coalition to enforce this, the commission is simply pursuing an agenda of stopping people fleeing from reaching europe. you're throwing out your rash and bad proposals for a new super-frontex. you accept bilateral action, you want to pursue unacceptable deals with the authoritarian regime in turkey to keep refugees and you want to send nato forces to the aegean sea. the unhcr condemned your turkish plan earlier in the plenary. this is not the way forward, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the way of the future. the future of europe in dealing with the refugee situation can only be built on our taking on a shared responsibility, but it seems that the commission has given up. is that what you're saying? if that's the case, then we're doomed. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. yeah, i couldn't agree more. there's talk of a new coast guard. i thought frontex, with its triple budget increase, would be guarding our borders, our external borders in particular. but, in fact, we know that frontex's main mission is search and rescue, so now i'm wondering what this new coast guard is going to do that's different from frontex? there is also talk of the need to redistribute refugees among the member states. yes, last year they even managed to redistribute 400 of them. there was talk of redistributing 160,000. what's happening this year? so, we're going to multiply 160,000 times two and redistribute 320,000, or what are you thinking? and when the quota is full, what do you do? sweden has even asked to be allowed to redistribute 25 000 from sweden to other member states. avramopoulos, when is this going to happen?
madam president, i would like to thank you. i am very worried about the future of the eu and the schengen system. i am afraid that it will collapse completely, as one country after another adopts so-called own border controls or temporary border controls. among others, my own country, sweden, has done so. i see it as my task to also work to make these border checks as short-lived as possible, but there will be no change unless all member states take responsibility. unless all the member states do so, various countries will introduce temporary controls, and i think that is extremely tragic. another issue on the agenda is the return of those who do not have a reason for protection. i have nothing against that in itself, but it is also the case that there are a number, hundreds or perhaps thousands, of people who have been living in europe for several years already and who have received refusals, but it has been impossible to send them back. now there is an extra-intensive hunt to really get these people back to gaza, to afghanistan and to many other countries that are extremely problematic. i would like to know what the commissioners think about that.
madam president, the closed border and quota policy just dumps the problem on other member states. there are no unilateral solutions and member states have to work together. we have to move from uncontrolled influx to orderly reception and better control at the eu external border, to register people in a human way, and restore schengen. work for harmonising databases between turkey and the eu is crucial, and i support the eu-turkey action plan and the new monitoring facility for greece. funds for refugees in turkey, lebanon and jordan have to be disbursed fast, including to the un and ngos. i do support nato cooperation to combat traffickers in the mediterranean. resettlement is the safe highway to europe. all member states should increase their quotas and speed up procedures with the unhcr. relocation, repatriation and the revision of dublin also must be accelerated. stigmatising refugees is part of the problem, putting people against people. it is time for eu leaders to change the narrative. refugees are neither a burden nor a danger. they are human beings, women and children in search and need of protection.
madam president, i would like to thank you. this agreement is an agreement between the council, the commission and the parliament on how the eu will legislate in the future. it has good and bad things in it, but the best thing is that the proposals that the commission put forward and which risked paralysing the eu legislative process are no longer there. we greens are concerned about proposals to introduce too many impact assessments. why would you do that? is it not good to analyze the consequences before making a decision? yes, it is, but it is so much easier to see the costs of a policy proposal affecting a single company - for example, a producer of a dangerous chemical - than to see the benefits of the policy proposal to ban the dangerous chemical, something that a lot of people are benefiting from. these diffuse benefits and an excess of impact assessments risk paralysing the decision-making process.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, you and, above all, president juncker, have repeatedly promised to put forward proposals to ensure equal pay for equal work and to be the champion of social dialogue, that is to say, that employers and trade unions should be the driving forces behind wage movements, not politics. a week ago a commission proposal was leaked which went in the opposite direction and caused a lot of emotion. we have now received a new proposal, which i am grateful for, which looks better, which is worth evaluating, and we shall see what the analysis gives. but what we do know is that the eu will need more labour market mobility, and that makes equal pay for equal work, not pay by where you come from, even more important. mrs thyssen has repeatedly pointed out the unreasonableness of the fact that we used to have some kind of biological pay, i.e. pay by sex. women were automatically paid less than men. what you're sticking to now is geographically-based pay, which means where you come from is more important than what job you do. it's ridiculous. it's a thousand and nine hundred by my standards. this must change, and this must be the result of the new scrutiny you are making and the new proposals you are presenting. we in our employment committee are prepared to work with you, but we cannot go our separate ways.
madam president, i would like to thank you. thank you, madam commissioner, and thank you to the commission for this initiative. of course, it will take a lot for europe to become a social triple-a part of the world. what are the conditions? we live in a time of refugee crisis, right-wing extremism on the rise, questioning of freedom of speech and media freedom - all this on top of an economic crisis that is far from over. and at the same time, social partners are not getting involved in the way they should be in order for us to solve the problems. i just can't do it without them. politics cannot do it alone. i think the experience of the last few years is a clear example of this. eurofound has produced a very interesting report, which i would like you to read. it is about what has happened in the crisis countries that were treated very harshly by the troika and were forced out of their collective bargaining systems. these countries are still suffering more than others, and that is because the nerve endings of the social partners have been destroyed by economism. so, more of a social force, let the people go free so that they can be involved and work together with politicians and others and unions to actually restore the spirit of life. that's what this is about.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we are opposed to turkish membership of the eu for several reasons. the first and most important is that the country is not in europe. only three per cent of turkey is entering europe, and i hope you can see for yourselves what this could mean for the eu to have a border with syria, iraq and iran. secondly, there is now blackmail against the eu, demanding more money and visa facilitation for turkish citizens and a quick-file into membership to help at all. repression of minorities is common in turkey, for example against the kurds. there's no respect for human rights. the attitude towards freedom of the press is, to say the least, alarming when it comes to media and freedom of expression, and one can note with great concern an islamist development in the country in recent years with the ruling akp party. turkey's gdp is a fraction of my own country's gdp, and we have enough of spending on the eu as it is. i do not want to add any more burden to the swedish taxpayer's burden, because that is where it ends up. the eu, in its panic about not being able to deal with the migration crisis, would give in to blackmail is the wrong way to approach this problem. we are open to dialogue and cooperation with turkey to solve the problems, but let me be clear when i say that it also ends there.
mr president, i would like to thank you. most of this has already been said, and i can see that the criticism is widespread in this house, both from my green colleagues and from the vast majority of others. i hope that the commission and the council will take up this criticism. i wonder what you're really thinking. you sell out our core european values and you propose that we violate the geneva convention in exchange for a barter of refugees. we're going to trade syrians for syrians. this is absurd. i want to know which syrians are being sent back, and why, and who's being brought here. i want to know how the asylum cases are to be tried, without violating the right of asylum, and who decides a case. i want to know how the right of asylum will be maintained in relation to all other nationalities, and i have many questions to which i believe you do not have answers. this is a bad proposal, which i hope will fall on its own folly. we must take a joint responsibility in europe. we will not barter with neighboring countries. turkey is also not a safe country to send refugees back to.
mr president, i would like to thank you. 'today was a good day', said angela merkel yesterday about the negotiations with the erdoğan regime. it's true in a european laughter-mirror room. yesterday was a good day for the dealers at the turkish bazaar. yesterday was a good day for human traffickers. one by one, it's called. if 10 syrian boat refugees are intercepted in the mediterranean and returned to turkey, 10 syrians will be sent from turkey to europe. but not the same people. it's a bargain and a shaking worthy of a slave market. it's trading people. it's a human rights bargain. it does not seem that merkel and rutte's colleagues in the council are buying their proposal. orbán has already threatened to veto. the problem is that merkel's opponents have even worse solutions. or none at all. no, yesterday was not a good day. it's been a long time since human rights had a good day. in my europe, you act with wisdom and responsibility and not as a hostage to erdogan.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the directive on procedural safeguards for children suspected or accused in criminal proceedings because 1 million children are involved in criminal justice every year in europe and they are particularly vulnerable. they need special protection and assistance to understand what is at stake, the law and their rights. while criminal law is a national competence, the minimum standards laid out in this directive will improve legal certainty. i believe that mandatory assistance by a lawyer, children’s right to an individual assessment of their familiar and social situation, specialised training for justices, prosecutors, and other professionals involved in criminal justice are crucial safeguards and represent a step forward in the direction of guaranteeing a fair trial for children in the eu. indeed, as co-chair of the intergroup on children’s rights in the european parliament, i am happy that the best interests of the child is at the core of the directive, which provides a comprehensive protection system at all stages for children involved in criminal proceedings, putting children’s rights at the top of the eu political agenda.
‒ today the european parliament voted on its first proposal to the council for the eu budget for 2017. europe faces many challenges and the eu budget is crucial to meeting them. unfortunately, the committee on budgets, which drew up the report, wants to increase spending in virtually all areas instead of re-prioritizing the budget and focusing on core issues. the report also proposes to relax the budgetary rules. the report also calls for an eu tax, something the christian democrats clearly rejected in the election campaign. the christian democrats are clear that the long-term ambition is to gradually reduce eu spending on agricultural, labour market, regional and industrial policies. i therefore voted against the report. however, in separate votes, i highlighted support for more money to address the migration challenges.
in writing. - i voted against the guidelines. i believe that the eu budget is too large and should be cut. the report supports the agreement with turkey on the issue of the expulsion of refugees who have arrived in the eu. an agreement that is, among other things, contrary to the binding geneva convention on the status of refugees. support is also provided for the disbursement of at least eur 3 billion to turkey, a country which daily violates human rights and democratic principles. the report supports the extremely costly iter fusion energy project when the eu should instead invest heavily in renewable energy and energy efficiency and savings. the report states that there is still strong support for the regional and structural funds, which have also long been subject to widespread fraud. these are some of the reasons why i choose to vote no.
‒ the report sets out general guidelines for the preparation of the 2017 budget; i agree with the report's guidelines in principle. there are a number of problematic lines in the report; i think, for example, that school milk and school fruit should be dealt with at national level; i think that the globalisation funds should be abolished; some lines on the eu's own resources were too far-reaching. in future votes on specific budget lines i shall vote against these items. since there was no opportunity to vote on the individual texts in this report and since the report contains important political signals, such as the need for the budget to take account of the global climate agreement concluded in paris last year and the importance of full funding of the eu's research programmes, i nevertheless chose to vote in favour of the report as a whole.
‒ we cannot support the european parliament's demand for higher expenditure in 2017. instead, we want to prioritise eu spending to focus on those things that strengthen europe's competitiveness and create the conditions for growth and jobs. the eu should give priority to the infrastructure of the single market, research and our long-term capacity to develop an effective foreign policy and jointly strengthen control of our borders. we therefore welcome the priorities in the area of migration and research and development. but we want to reduce agricultural aid, industrial subsidies and those parts of regional policy which make well-functioning economies dependent on subsidies. we cannot support the demands to make the eu's budgetary rules more flexible, to increase the flexibility of the stability pact, to demand a larger long-term budget or to give the eu taxation rights. it is not a bigger eu budget that strengthens europe's competitiveness and the conditions for growth and jobs. it requires structural reforms, balanced public finances, deregulation and a reduction in bureaucracy.
‒ i have voted against the report. improvements have been made to the original text, but the basic tone of the report remains essentially about the interests of businesses in simplification and reduction of administrative burden. i am in favour of reforms that reduce the administrative burden on businesses, but not if simplification of legislation has negative consequences in areas such as the working environment and the protection of workers, or limits the legislator's ability to regulate. i also believe that the european commission is given too much power and control in the proposed decisionmaking process. i also believe that the legislative process would be much more transparent. transparency is essential for democracy to work. for these reasons, i am voting against.
the resolution stresses the problems with the current system and the commission's delay in providing parliament with an evaluation of the agreements currently in force. it is important that we move as quickly as possible from a situation where we base the fight against smuggling, counterfeiting and tax evasion on individual agreements with private companies to an international comprehensive set of rules which are the same for everyone. i therefore want the commission to ensure that we leave these agreements as soon as possible and that the agreements currently in force are not renegotiated or extended.
in writing. we do not believe that the eu should renew the current cooperation agreement with pmi. the cooperation agreement is not effective in tackling the real problem of the illegal trade in tobacco products in the eu, which consists almost exclusively of the smuggling of unlabeled cigarettes. instead, we are concerned that an extension of the pmi cooperation agreement is incompatible with the who framework convention on tobacco control, which aims to protect public health policy from the influence of the tobacco industry, and would instead legitimise the tobacco industry and give it undesirable influence. in order to ensure the strongest possible protection of public health, in today's vote we voted against individual resolutions in favour of the joint resolution (rc-b8-0312/2016) tabled.
prime minister of sweden.– mr president, i thank you very much for the invitation to be here today. it is an honour for me and it is a pleasure. ‘it was the best of times, it was the worst of times, it was the age of wisdom, it was the age of foolishness, it was the epoch of belief, it was the epoch of incredulity, it was the season of light, it was the season of darkness, it was the spring of hope, it was the winter of despair.’. these are the opening lines of dickens’ ‘a tale of two cities’. he is describing europe at the end of the 18th century – but he could just as well have been talking about our own times. we have indeed weathered a winter of despair: of terrorists and extremists attempting to attack our fundaments; of russia continuing to try to move european borders using armed force; of our union not being able to cope with youth unemployment, social hopelessness and the global refugee crisis. but there are also some rays of hope in the world. the global climate agreement, the new sustainable development goals, and a large part of the african countries rising from poverty: these all show that we live in a time when global cooperation really can make a difference. and the eu also has a chance at a spring of hope if standing strong and united against external threats, if tackling common challenges with the collective strength required to resolve them, if clearing away the last ruins of the financial crisis and starting to build strong societies again. i was born in 1957, the same year as the treaty of rome. my generation was given vast opportunities and had great hope for the future. to many of us, the world seemed to be ours to explore and to make into a better place. now i cannot see a greater duty than to give the same opportunity and hope to the young generation of today. and i know that the european union can be a driving force for that, if we stand up for three central values of our union: that is democracy, cooperation and also added value for our citizens. let me start with democracy. we are currently strengthening our joint action against terrorism following cowardly and appalling attacks against our society. many of these actions that we are taking are tough, but they are necessary. but the work to defend democracy is a much greater task. defending democracy is standing up for the safety of our jewish citizens at a time when anti-semitic threats, hatred and violence once again echo throughout europe. it is never accepting or spreading populists’ and extremists’ demonisation of muslims, even if it scores cheap points with the electorate. it is working for the rights of the roma and of all minorities who are held back by prejudice and poverty. defending democracy is also defending free and independent media, freedom of reporting and freedom of the press, because we know that politics always benefits from hard scrutiny. defending democracy is respecting every person’s right to meet, to be tried in free and fair trials, to move freely in society and to love whoever they want. if we do not defend these democratic values, we will lose europe as we know it. that brings me to my second point, which is cooperation. rarely have so many people been displaced in the world as they are right now, but rarely have so few european countries stepped up and been prepared to act. during a two-month period last autumn, sweden took in some 80 000 people at a rate that is equivalent to 25 million asylum seekers annually in the european union as a whole. this brought our reception system to the brink of collapse and, in the absence of working european solutions, it forced us to take unilateral action. now the schengen agreement and the free movement it creates is a foundation pillar of the european union, and crucial for our economies. but if we do not act, and act fast, we might lose it. i see a lot of words and plans to move forward, but far too little action. i therefore urge all the member states to take their responsibility. it is time to act, to ensure control of our external borders, to enhance our cooperation with turkey on the basis of international law, to implement the redistribution of refugees within the european union, fight human smuggling and also strengthen our common foreign policy to put a stop to the causes of the refugee crisis. so we must move from chaos to control, otherwise we risk european cooperation as we know it. and, looking ahead, it is time to admit that the dublin regulation is not working and needs to be replaced. if we do not create a new, common and sustainable asylum system, more countries will be forced to act unilaterally, which will hurt mobility, trade and – most of all – it will hurt the human beings who are fleeing. sweden is ready – and will act – for a new asylum system in the eu that is based on equal distribution, and in which asylum is sought in the eu – not in an individual country. quite simply, to put it shortly, if we are to share an external border and have free movement between our countries, we must also share a system of asylum reception. to be honest, i cannot see how countries that do not participate in the common asylum system can participate in schengen cooperation either. this brings me to my third point, and that is the added value for our citizens. now we have shown that we are ready to work hard to keep together, as we have recently done to help to keep the united kingdom within our union. but the complaints against the european union all over our continent should not be brushed aside. these complaints show us the dire need to emphasise that special something that keeps us together – the european spirit, the shared value of cooperation for our citizens. we need to demonstrate the value of 28 countries and 508 million inhabitants joining together: to address challenges such as climate change that no country can manage alone, in this time of global interdependence; to create an even larger common market, in this time of global competition; and to generate greater security for our people, in this time of global unease. but if eu cooperation is to truly gain the broad popular support that is needed to stay strong in the 21st century, we must have a union that works much harder for the wellbeing of the people, the citizens. in a world where 62 people own as much as 3.5 billion people, in such a world, we need a european union that works for equality and everyone’s chance to pursue their innermost hopes for a good life. this is why we need to build a social europe that strengthens people through more secure jobs, better living conditions and strengthens enterprises through more secure access to citizens with purchasing power. because when people and enterprises are strengthened, economies grow. in a social europe, the eu is a prime advocate for good terms and conditions for everyone working in the union, making sure that workers are never forced to compete against each other through lower wages or poorer working conditions. ensuring that in a tricky world of global subcontractors, there is always someone who is responsible for ensuring that you are safe at work. in a social europe, the eu should work to unleash the energy of a growing labour force. if women were employed to the same extent as men in the european union, gdp could grow or increase some 12% by 2030. so the eu must not only act as a sentinel for sound finances, it must also act as a driving force for women’s entry into the labour market and a truly equal world of work. this is as ethically right as it is economically smart. in a social europe, the eu should take a collective stand against the youth unemployment that is breaking down the youth and also breaking down our economies and our societies’ faith in the future. so we should prioritise investment in education, expand exchanges of european students between not only higher education institutions but also upper secondary schools. and create the jobs for the future for young people via social investment, ambitious free trade agreements and a digital internal market. this is the kind of social europe that can win the hearts of the people in europe. the commission’s proposal for amending the posting of workers directive and the development of the social pillar show that the work is finally and truly under way, which i welcome. taking steps towards more decent working conditions and social progress is paramount. so let us continue onwards and upwards. let us come together for a summit and draw up a strategy to move this idea of a social europe forward, and i would be pleased and honoured to host such a summit in sweden next year in 2017. (applause)we are working for an eu that works hard for the size of the market, yes, but even harder for the wellbeing of its people. i see parliament and the commission as key actors on all three issues. i can feel in this very hall and in our union that we carry the ability to create the same hope that i felt as the generation of 1957, for the generations of 1997, 2007, 2017, and many generations to come. so europe’s winter of despair has been long and hard. but if we stand up for democracy when democracy is tested, if we cooperate and turn words into deeds to address the migration crisis, and if we create a social europe that increases the wellbeing in people’s everyday lives, then we will be able – in these best of times and in these worst of times – to create a new spring of hope in europe. (applause)
vice-president of the commission.– mr president, president juncker has asked me to replace him in this debate and convey his greetings. yes, it is the best of times and it is the worst of times but, above all, it is the time for us in europe to stand up for our values and be counted. prime minister, i am very honoured to welcome you in this chamber, where you have just done exactly that. thank you. sweden is a country that has shaped its own destiny with values and the conviction that we can live and work together and provide for a fair society. you have also influenced those beyond your borders – the rest of us in europe. i will just recall that, together with your scandinavian partners, you were the first to understand the value of free movement: it was the then nordic council which, in the 1950s, launched free travel and the original labour market for the first time. your achievement has served you very well and it is serving europe very well. today, on behalf of our president, i would like to pay tribute to sweden’s response to the refugee crisis. your country has long received the highest number of people seeking protection, way before the current crisis started. your solidarity is a shining light. when a country so far north in the union is affected so directly by events to the south, we know we are in this together. no country can manage this crisis alone and no country should be left alone, be it greece, sweden, austria or germany. no country can carry the weight on its own. together we have to protect our borders. together we have to help people who depend on us for their survival. we recognise the effort sweden has made and we have suspended the relocation of refugees to sweden from greece and italy. that is pragmatic and fair. today, as you have said, in most parts of europe we need to restore order. we need to restore the schengen system. your country knows the cost of life without schengen. i was struck by how costly it is to have border controls on the øresund bridge between sweden and denmark – the costs run into hundreds of millions of euros a month. last friday, the commission published a roadmap setting out the steps to restore schengen to full health and lift all internal borders by december 2016 at the latest. this gives us an opportunity to make schengen more resilient. we have to learn from the crisis that the system works only if we all participate: otherwise it does not work at all. that is why, obviously, we all have to pull together. at the commission we are not interested in pointing the finger. we are interested in solutions and in helping member states – all member states – to bear a shared responsibility for restoring and protecting schengen. prime minister, let me turn to a second topic which you touched upon and which also has to do with values in europe: europe’s social model. it is one of our greatest achievements. far more than a way to organise our economy, it is part of who we are, it is part of our treaties and it is part of our identity. sweden has written entire chapters in this story. listening to you and your government, you are holding the pen and still writing. thank you for that. what we have demonstrated to the rest of the world is that our social market economy can have prosperity and social justice going hand in hand. my former employer, the world bank, called the european union a lifestyle superpower because of the standards we have established for our citizens – standards in gender equality, in public health and in the environment, and above all in our welfare system. our challenge is to adapt this model to a world which is changing much faster than in the years that you and i were born. with this in mind – the need to constantly adapt – we at the commission have launched a proposal for a european pillar of social rights. it sets out principles and practices to ensure that work is decent and fair and that we meet our goals of equal opportunity, fair conditions and proper social protection. it is about delivering fairness for individuals and also building resiliency into our labour market and our economy. by revealing the gaps in the current legislation, the pillar will show what measures we still need to take. let me make one final point. over many decades, sweden has embodied european values, values of equality, values of compassion for people seeking protection, and today you are showing that these values are very strong. we are going to respond to the greatest test of our time. these values are the light that we ought to follow. there is a european solution. and that, moreover, is the only solution. i would like to thank you, prime minister, and to thank sweden, for being such a key part of it.
for the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. madam vice-president and mr prime minister, welcome to the house. it is gratifying to hear a social democrat prime minister, as well as other representatives of sweden, so clearly emphasize that sweden stands behind european cooperation, strong and stable. we live in a time when the crises coming from outside - russia, syria, russia in syria, isis, terrorism, climate change, refugees - are challenging the very values that are the foundation of our society. only a strong europe can deal with this and that is why i would like to say: don't ever say, we have to solve all these problems next week or else the cooperation has failed we will need this cooperation for a very long time, because the problems we face are bigger than there being a simple solution and a decision. instead of always asking what europe can do for us, we must ask what we can do for europe. i know that wording has been used before, but that's what we have to do. on social issues, do not weaken european cooperation by taking them from national parliaments to the european parliament. then we have the conflicts, then we have the over-regulation, then we have the bureaucracy that people all over europe are turning against. the first thing that comes out of the british debate, and which many of us in sweden also share, is that there is too much bureaucracy. we will reduce bureaucracy and we will make it easier by removing the jungle of national regulations that impede economic development. a free trade agreement with the united states, stable public finances. i would like the prime minister to speak to those in his own party groups who believe that you get more money by spending more money than you have. the refugee question: our country has taken on a very great responsibility. we have to make sure that there is a burden sharing. we have to make sure we follow the rules. the same is true of the öresund bridge. when we introduce controls, we should follow the rules and not introduce carrier liability. as far as refugees are concerned, we must ensure that other countries take responsibility, that borders are respected and that the necessary responsibility is taken throughout europe. in the case of turkey, clear demands for democracy and freedom of the press. in this cooperation we must make turkey more democratic and more rule of law if we are to protect the people whose fate is at stake. and remember, mr. prime minister, we are here to make europe strong. it's gonna take a lot of work over a long period of time, but together, we're gonna get through this.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to welcome the prime minister to the european parliament today. it's nice of you to share this afternoon with us. as we know, sweden is a medium-sized eu member state, and i would urge the prime minister to take advantage of this. i know that you in the swedish government agree with me that the dublin regulation, the cornerstone of a functioning european asylum policy, must be reformed. i will be leading that work here in parliament and look forward to our continued cooperation on this. but now i ask you, stefan löfven, to take the helm of the council of ministers and convince the other governments of the need to create a solidarity-based, sustainable asylum policy in the eu. only then can we, together, bring about the real change that is needed now more than ever. unfortunately, sweden has gone from being a country that has dared to take up arms in the council of ministers, and which with its weight and credibility in asylum and migration matters has been able to influence other member states in the right direction, to being increasingly seen as a country that follows the tide rather passively and repeats the mantra: 'people on the run are someone else's responsibility and not ours'. that is not the way to lead the way towards a common european responsibility. the agreement with turkey on monday will not resolve the situation in the long term. there are strong indications that its substantial parts are contrary to the geneva convention and also to the eu treaties. even if many of the people who are now trying to get to the eu are stopped, they will find other ways to get to the eu, and not everyone can stay in greece. without a european asylum policy in which everyone participates, no member state will be able to do this. we will see repeated examples of the greek tragedy unfolding across the eu. instead of outsourcing our responsibility for refugees to turkey, the eu should now secure its own external borders, create legal safe routes for refugees and ensure an asylum system where responsibility is shared fairly between all 28 countries. migration cooperation with turkey can only work if there is a common border guard and a common asylum policy. stefan löfven, take the initiative now and build good coalitions with the other countries. show some leadership and tell me which countries in the council are putting the wheels on the wheel. the time for the back door in the council of ministers must be over now, because we have a good swedish tradition of openness and transparency which should also be a guide for the council. one of the eu leaders must break the race to the bottom, and i wish it were my own country's government that did it. europe simply deserves much, much more than we are doing at the moment.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. mr prime minister, welcome to the european parliament! sweden has taken a big responsibility in 2015 to take in people who have fled. that's all well and good, but then something happened in the fall and you made a deal with the right-wing opposition parties to close our borders. i think that was the wrong decision, but that's not what we're here to debate. the important thing today is that we are facing the same situation and the same challenge at european level. should europe take in refugees and organise a dignified reception, or should we claim that the eu too needs a breathing space and close our borders? what role will sweden play in that election? to me, the answers are obvious, mr. prime minister. the eu as a whole has taken in a very small proportion of the people who are fleeing today. we will of course share and receive more, with dignity, and i believe of course that sweden should be a leader in that development, in a political change of course for the eu that ensures that we do not close our borders. unfortunately, i don't see that role enough in the council. let me be clear: a new super-border guard with extraordinary powers to enforce visas and to act in third countries and to intervene without consent in a member state is not a solution. nato patrols in the mediterranean are not a solution and, last but not least, dealing with turkey with mass expulsions is not a solution. refugees are not fishing quotas that we load and unload. these are people of flesh and blood who have fled and left everything in conflict. mr. prime minister, i'm not being naive. i see that it is not possible to get orbán and some other countries on board. the eu-28 has reached its end, whatever people here say, both morally and politically. so you must have a plan b based on a coalition of willing member states, who want to go forward in close cooperation with unhcr, who were here yesterday and spoke very wisely. you can use the eu institutions even in a small coalition. finally, it is not worthy of a social democratic government here in europe or in any country to oppose refugees to welfare. it's just playing into the hands of racists, and you can't work with them. 2015 was the year that people went out and welcomed refugees. what 2016 will be, we don't know yet, but it's pretty much up to us here and up to you in the council. is it the year we built the walls or is it the year of solidarity with the refugees?
for the efdd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. stefan löfven, you yourself have said that we in sweden have been naive in our reception of refugees. you may have inherited the government's sinking ship of migration, reinfeldt, but the irresponsible policy you have pursued for a year and a half has made the situation many times worse. because of countries like sweden, the eu's migration situation has developed into an economic, political and humanitarian chaos. today you stand here in this chamber and want to inflict on the whole of europe the consequences of your naive policy. you ask other member states to 'rescue you in case of need' when you yourself have been a bad boy. the eu member states must take a joint responsibility, you say. your government must take more responsibility and actively contribute to ending mass migration to the eu, i say. do you really believe in forced distribution? how will this solution ever work? many member states lack the resources, capacity and political will to integrate the gigantic number of migrants. country after country is turning away from the redistribution mechanism you're promoting. stefan löfven, you have to bite into that sour apple, and realize that sweden's really big problem is instead how we, on our own, should be able to expel the approximately 80,000 migrants that your government has announced will leave sweden. how are we gonna do that? we who can't even evacuate 30 asylum seekers from a bus!
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you for being here, stefan löfven. it's good and it's important. you hear the vagrant rants and all the completely unreasonable claims flying through the air. they do that a lot in this chamber, and that's why it's so nice to have you here. i would like to return to the inequality that is growing throughout europe. we have 23 million registered unemployed today, and we know that the real figure is much higher. there are those around europe - and yes, in this room too - who think that we should now face this crisis, this unemployment with low wages and worse conditions, and that we should have a labour market that is segregated between eu citizens and the newcomers who come here, who at the same time should have even worse conditions. this is despite the fact that it leads to even greater disparities and even more unequal, unfair conditions in the labour market. we social democrats want to put an end to social dumping, to wage dumping. competition with poorer conditions and low wages is dragging down everyone, not just those who are hit first. president juncker of the commission has put it this way: 'no social dumping - equal pay for equal work'. i know it's obvious, but i feel like this. can we really trust juncker to achieve this? i'm sure he believes it, but does he have the power to make it happen? today, too many people lack confidence in the ability of politics. they turn to extreme parties, the kind you hear rumbling and rumbling up there -- they're like the aic heel, if i suddenly think about what it looks like at home, and sometimes it's worse. they turn to extreme parties, voters who don't feel they're getting answers to their questions. if we fail to push back unemployment and stop social dumping, we risk more people giving up on politics and turning to extremists. i can't let that happen. the commission presented yesterday a number of proposals to strengthen a social europe. it was about a revised posting directive, about giving power back to the social partners, about jobs and training. do you think that will be enough to achieve the goal of equal pay for equal work?
mr president, i would like to thank you. the european parliament welcomes the prime minister, mr stefan löfven. you come to us at a time which is quite difficult for the european union. we've been grappling with a climate challenge where we have to find our solutions for the future. we are faced with a migration challenge where we also have to find our solutions, and we are also faced with an increasingly fragmented europe marked by a brexit debate and a growing number of populists spreading across the european union. which is why i'm glad you're here and why our debate today is very, very important. i want to start by giving the prime minister a compliment, because i've rarely heard you speak as clearly as you did in your recent speech on immigration policy. you made it clear that if we've made decisions together, there must be consequences if we don't follow them. i think it was very honorable of the prime minister to take the leadership jersey there, because i have asked for it many times, most recently in the last few days in the media. at the same time, we have seen quite clearly how the council has taken decisions on several occasions which have not been followed up. it risks making the council an impotent part of the european union. what does it matter what decisions we take here or in the council if they are not actually implemented? the migration issue is just one of the areas where we must ensure that the decisions taken are also delivered politically. what i am more hesitant about, however, is the idea of a social europe. is it not the case that the prime minister himself was involved in discussions with david cameron and thereby declared the death of social europe? what was started there was to roll back what the social democrats had been pushing in the election campaign, what had been one of the government's flagships. i am a little concerned that the social democrats have lost their idea of europe. like my colleague gunnar hökmark, i am keen to see the social democrats support a strong europe. it was the social democratic prime minister ingvar carlsson who brought sweden into europe. it was the social democrat prime minister göran persson who embraced the enlargement of the eu. it was the bourgeois prime minister fredrik reinfeldt who brought sweden to the core of european cooperation. but what is the present government's idea of the eu of tomorrow?
mr president, i would like to thank you. mr prime minister, welcome to the house. the european council's recent deal with turkey leaves a number of difficult questions unanswered. it is good that sweden has received letters of formal notice to respect international law and international agreements on asylum, but how this should be done is far from clear. i would therefore like to ask the prime minister a few questions on this. greece considers that turkey should be considered a safe country in these matters, but sweden does not. but the eu should have a common position on this issue, should it not? otherwise, it is the path chosen that determines whether the refugee is to be sent back, not where he or she comes from or whether he or she has reasons for asylum. if the greek road is effectively closed, what other roads will people choose instead? are they safer? is there any analysis of this? are you sure this deal won't make things worse for those who are fleeing? how is the swedish government going to act in the near future to get all these questions answered, so that we can say that the eu stands up for the right to asylum? is there any idea how the swedish government should work to deal with this? and finally, a more personal question for you, stefan. after all these meetings and negotiations, do you really have any hope that your colleagues in the european council will take responsibility and agree to distribute future flows of refugees in a fair and united way?
mr president, i would like to thank you. so, here we are, finally. two ordinary working-class guys who ended up in the world of politics. the welder and the truck driver. we are both members of if metall and we both believe in the swedish model, but that is also where the similarities between us end, i mean. while stefan löfven and his government lived in naivety, piling mistakes on top of mistakes, i and other representatives of my party have for a long time very clearly and clearly pointed out what would be the result of the naively conducted signal policy of both the previous and the current government. measures that my party has long proposed, and which led to ridiculous epithets from not least stefan löfven in debates, are now used by both the government and the bourgeois. your hypocrisy is gigantic. germany and sweden bear a great deal of responsibility for the situation we are in now, which is hitting the swedish welfare model extremely hard. every week we see municipalities get on their knees and report themselves because the systems can't handle it anymore. this is despite the fact that over 60 percent of those seeking to come to the eu today, according to the eu, are economic migrants, and despite the fact that over 16,000 children die every day in the world because of the lack of clean water and food. the eu's priorities are completely insane. stefan, you say you're satisfied with the settlement for england after the brussels meeting. so my question to you, stefan, is this: when will you and your government demand the same, and if not, why should not sweden, which has paid over 160 billion kronor to the eu since joining, also demand a similar deal? sweden has become a deterrent example in the eyes of many and i blame it entirely on the paralysing political correctness of the current government, not least.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you, prime minister, for being here. i hope you have found the debate of the last hour interesting, educational and fruitful. you talk about a social europe, but you did not mention the elephant in the room. the eu has a misconstrued and dysfunctional monetary union which has contributed to worsening the economic crisis and keeping millions of people unemployed. it is clear that sweden made the right decision when we rejected joining emu in our referendum. but i often hear from members of this house that sweden has no right to remain outside the monetary union for any length of time. they do not respect the choice of the swedish people, and i think that in the long run it would be good and safer if sweden were to have a clearly established treaty exemption from emu, in the same way as many other countries have. i also believe that in the long term we must ensure that we create favourable conditions for all those countries within the eu which do not want to join the monetary union. we need security guarantees for those countries to ensure that the decisions taken by the eu are good for all and not just for a few. i hope sweden can take a leading role in making sure that this happens.
mr president, i would like to thank you. 5,281 days! this is the length of time that swedish-eritrean journalist dawit isaak has been detained without trial in eritrea. 5 281 days it's more than 14 years of uncertainty and worry for dawit isaak's family too. he is the only european citizen currently imprisoned for his opinions. his situation is not unique, however. his fate is shared by many other journalists and political prisoners. it's not just freedom of speech that is under attack in eritrea today. according to reports by the un special envoy, eritrea is engaged in systematic human rights violations and the government has restricted the majority of people's freedoms. the list is very long. one of the main objectives of the eu's foreign and security policy is to promote democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. this must also apply to relations with eritrea. i welcome the resolution, but i would like to know what the commission and the vice-president intend to do to get dawit isaak out of eritrea.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank you for a well-worded resolution on the situation in eritrea. i also want to thank you for supporting my own work for dawit isaak. the swedish-eritrean journalist dawit isaak has, as we heard, been imprisoned for more than 14 years in appalling conditions for the sole reason that he has stood up for human rights. it is therefore important that the european parliament now calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners. at the same time, more must be done. if human rights violations continue, this must have consequences for long-term development cooperation. the eu's unconditional distribution of billions in aid to eritrea is unacceptable. it is time to link aid to demands for human rights and the release of dawit isaak and other political prisoners. it is time to admit that eritrea is unfortunately a rogue state, based on what we are seeing today.
mr president, i would like to thank you. 2015 clearly showed that the country faces enormous challenges. the political agreement between the government and the opposition in june was very important in principle, but now we must show that there is a real will for change. comprehensive reforms are crucial to the country's future and the most important thing right now is that the people themselves finally get a democratic election. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. a free and independent media is the cornerstone of any democratic society. it is crucial for the stability of the country and it is crucial for eu membership to be possible, and now there are shortcomings. in addition to the political crisis, the country has also done a tremendous job in terms of the flow of refugees, and there must be a sense of solidarity from the eu with macedonia in order to cope with the terrible task of refugees. but as i said, the most important thing is to ensure that all the necessary measures are taken for a fair and democratic election in june.
the committee on agriculture and rural development has tabled an opinion on the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. i would like to begin by thanking mrs grossetête for her very good work and her wonderful cooperation. after starting with almost 1 100 amendments, we have now, with your help and with the help of mr tănăsescu's leadership, arrived at a very good compromise proposal. this bill will prove important not only for the well-being of the planet and the development of the pharmaceutical industry. it will also benefit public health and the environment in europe. i am particularly pleased that we are making such strict demands on the use of antibiotics. routine, preventive treatments, frivolous group treatments should no longer exist. i am also pleased that the proposal includes who will have the right to prescribe veterinary medicines, what data will be collected, how they will be used and how we will manage the environmental risks in this context. the package is well balanced between consumer considerations, the proposal to provide strong incentives to the industry to manufacture medicines, including the generic industry, the fight against antibiotic resistance and environmental considerations. if this is the end result, we will have helped to create greater access to effective medicines that are manufactured and used in a way that does not threaten public health, animal health or our environment. we in alde support this package and hope that other colleagues will do the same.
madam president, i would like to thank you. it's a big step we're going to take today. it's a fight that many have been fighting for a long time. i would like to mention in particular two former colleagues, marit paulsen of the swedish liberals and karl-erik olsson of my own liberal party, the centre party, who started this fight back in the 1990s. when we talk about european added value, i can agree with the chorus of applause coming from almost every political group here. we are also working on this in the legislation on medicated feedingstuffs, which we will be adopting later this year. if we are to preserve the most important instrument we have in our management of our health - that is, antibiotics, which enable us to perform surgical procedures, which make pneumonia not a fatal disease, but which also enable farmers to know that there is no risk of all the animals in their herds dying because the antibiotics do not work, so that we can contain resistance - we have really created european added value for both the agricultural sector and the human race. thank you, mrs grossetête, for your work. i'm looking forward to seeing the results.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the increase in antibiotic resistance in society and in nature is a huge problem that has been under-reported so far, and this report is therefore a step in the right direction. infections caused by resistant bacteria are becoming harder to treat, and already today we are seeing the devastating consequences of this, including premature babies, the sick and the elderly who may suffer the dread of not being able to get help today. at european level, a sound and strong regulatory framework is now required to reduce antibiotic resistance in both animals and humans. europe needs to be clear that we do not want to have routine unnecessary prophylaxis with antibiotics on healthy animals. the starting point must be that only sick animals should be medicated when necessary. i would therefore say that the legislation we are voting on tomorrow is a step in the right direction, but we must also ensure that we get a ban on prophylaxis, on antibiotics given for preventive purposes.
blue-card question.– i hear that you are looking back to the times of hastings and 1066, but then you had the vikings over you. one would think, listening to you, that all problems come from brussels. but if you look at the problems of the united kingdom, was it not more blair and brown than brussels that caused the problems in the uk? would it not be a fairly good idea, if you have banks covering the european market, not to have a jungle of different regulations, but one regulation in common that we decide on together? can you tell me, do you prefer a jungle of different national regulations to one common one that is opening up the market?
mr president, first to those colleagues campaigning for fragmentation. you could have a campaign theme: ‘we want more bureaucracies because we love bureaucracy’ or ‘the more bureaucracies the better’; something like that, i am only trying to help. regarding the discussion here about banks, my thanks to the rapporteur, but the main problem we see today in europe is not the lack of regulation in the banking sector but rather the other way around, because we are now seeing an adaptation, an adjustment, to the decisions we have taken and that are now entering into force. what we see is the lack of growth, lack of investment, and in that perspective to hinder banks from market-making, investment-making, from creating liquidity would be to create even bigger problems because there is no regulation that can compensate for the lack of growth or unemployment. so let us be clear: we will not solve any problems by separating banks, and there is no majority for that. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– thank you for your question, mrs ferreira. first of all, the idea with the bail-in is that the taxpayers are not to be required to pay for the losses. in this legislation, which i was happy to be responsible for in this parliament together with you and others, i say that we together revitalised capitalism in the banking sector and i would like to thank you for those efforts. but this also means, in germany or in sweden or in portugal, that there will be no taxpayers’ money involved in the bank until you have dealt with the 8%. how you do that can be different. of course, we shall follow up and see what is happening and that all member countries are adapting to the legislation. i think that is important to do in portugal, in italy, in germany and in sweden.
member of the commission.– madam president, the commission welcomes the opportunity to discuss the human rights situation in the democratic republic of congo (drc) and it looks forward to the adoption of parliament’s resolution which addresses the crucial political process towards elections and the worrying situation regarding human rights and fundamental freedoms in the drc. the drc is a vast country of immense challenges, not least those of poverty and security, including gender-based violence. as sakharov prize winner dr denis mukwege has told this house, women’s bodies have become a true battlefield. it is true that the democratic republic of congo has experienced a protracted humanitarian and security crisis. the fragile peace in eastern drc depends on what has become the largest un peacekeeping operation ever. monusco is still facing a highly volatile and insecure situation. since the constitution and elections of 2006 there has been some progress. the economy expanded, some armed groups in the east were defeated or restrained, and there was an effort with much work still ahead to build viable regional institutions, but the drc is now approaching a critical milestone in its evolution. 2016 should be a presidential election year, but the opposition and civil society fear that the constitutional deadlines will not be respected. a political consensus is urgently needed on a focused set of steps to deliver inclusive and transparent elections within the framework of the constitution. this does not mean that government and opposition have to agree on every policy challenge facing the country, but it does mean they should find a common understanding on a roadmap leading to the ballot box. getting the right political climate for democracy to work is also important. unfortunately, protests and peaceful dissent have been met with repression in some cases and fundamental freedoms seem to be at stake. state security services are accused of involvement in human rights abuses and in a number of cases the judiciary has been disproportionately severe. the eu issued for this reason a statement in kinshasa on 8 march reminding the government of the need to respect its obligation. the stakes are high, the economy has been hit by falling commodity prices and an inability to expand domestic revenue, and public services suffer. this recipe for public alienation and discontent deserves our full attention. the eu has invested heavily in security, humanitarian aid and development. we are committed to a long-term partnership with the drc. it is not only material help. we have deployed intense political and diplomatic activity in support of peace, stability and reconciliation in active partnership with african regional actors and with the rest of the international community. in our comprehensive approach we have placed human rights first and we recognise the crucial role of the un as well. working closely with the united nations joint human rights office in the drc we monitor and support human rights defenders, we contribute to fighting impunity and we look to the longer term with support for security sector reform and conflict prevention, as well as human and social development. we also seek engagement with the authorities in political and policy dialogue. in conclusion, we believe that it will only be possible for the drc to move from fragility to resilience in a political culture of constitutionalism, rule of law and respect for human rights. the drc’s future belongs first and foremost to its citizens. their voice must be heard in civic discourse and at the polls and the european union will use the range of its instruments to make this happen. this resolution from parliament is therefore timely and welcome, and i am grateful for the particular attention you paid to my speech.
mr president, i would like again to raise the issue of the voting fraud by ms le pen. this issue was raised at the october 2015 session and the presidency kindly said it would launch an official investigation. many of us are still wondering what the result of that investigation is after so many months. mr marcel de graaff, co-chair of the group of european nations and freedom has been sanctioned for the voting fraud on the citizen’s initiative, but we have not heard anything on the vote by mr nicolas bay on behalf of, from the poste of, and with the card of, ms le pen, secretary-general of the front national, for voting on the emission schemes. i hope you have some news for us.
mr president, very quickly to say that this is proof of a public ‘mensonge’, a lie, because mr nicholas bay said to me personally that he had voted on behalf of mrs le pen in the car when we were going to the airport, and i have a witness, mrs frédérique ries. it shows how the front national think that they are above the rules of this parliament.
‒ the resolution addresses, among other things, the difficult situation on the macedonian-greek border and stresses the importance of european cooperation in order to resolve the situation we are facing. i therefore voted in favour of proposals to strengthen the humanitarian response needed in situations where countries close their borders. i also believe that we must seriously consider the consequences of closed borders for our responsibilities under international law and that is why i voted for amendment no 14.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in discussions about the problems facing the eu pig farmers, it is often said that the main problem is the conflict with russia. that's not true, man. some countries have had very little exposure to russia while others have had real problems finding alternative markets. the big problem is that the eu commission and policy have been focused on short-term measures, such as support for private storage. these measures do not solve the problem in a structural way but rather risk aggravating it over time. what is needed are new, comprehensive and more market-based solutions and a different policy. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the eu's agricultural policy. it is only by tackling the problem in a structural way that we can get to it, through action by producers, industry and consumers.
member of the commission.– mr president, thank you on behalf of the commission for this opportunity to speak today on the occasion of international roma day, which we celebrated last friday. discrimination against roma is still widespread across the eu. anti-gypsyism, a specific form of racism closely related to deep-rooted negative stereotyping and stigmatisation of roma, is on the rise. it is linked to the rise of radicalism and extremism in general in the eu. this trend raises serious concerns. it is crucial to take a strong stand and to do our best to stop these negative phenomena, which are incompatible with the values cherished by the european union. the commission has put in place a solid framework of policy, legal and financial instruments which, if implemented properly, should produce results on the ground. the commission has stepped up its efforts to ensure the correct implementation of legislation to combat discrimination against roma. the commission has also urged member states to demonstrate greater political will and a long-term vision to combat discrimination and promote the inclusion of roma people. the inclusion of minorities in education, the labour market and political life is one of the main ingredients of a healthy society. this year the commission launched a targeted campaign to effectively tackle stereotypes and prejudices against the roma, called ‘for roma, with roma’. it includes training for the media and close collaboration with municipalities in selected member states. the fight against discrimination against roma and anti-gypsyism – including hate speech and hate crime targeting the roma community – is included in the commission’s annual reporting on the progress made in advancing roma integration, as well as in the council recommendations on effective roma integration measures, the first ever eu legal instruments specifically referring to roma. the commission has welcomed and strongly supported the initiative of the european parliament to designate 2 august as european roma holocaust memorial day. the commission has also encouraged member states to do the same. it is our duty to acknowledge and remember all those who suffered under the nazi regime, including roma. the suffering of roma in concentration camps is a horrific chapter of human history that is less widely known. the commission will support the european parliament in its action to bring the european parliament resolution to the council for further discussion.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. last year at this time we debated a resolution on the fight against and recognition of anti-gypsyism and the recognition by the eu of the genocide of roma during the second world war. parliament adopted the resolution by a very large majority. with that resolution, parliament has clearly shown the way forward for the roma to enjoy equal rights within the eu - in short, for roma to be treated as human beings. anti-gypsyism is a disgrace to europe. in the debate with the council and the commission, all agreed that anti-gypsyism should be combated by all means. today is the day to start discussing how to do it. social measures are not enough. we must fight against this particular form of racism. so we need to work against mainstream society. parliament has put two oral questions which form the basis of this debate. they are about what the commission and the council should do to ensure that the member states take concrete and effective measures to combat this particular form of racism, anti-gypsyism. the council and the member states must set ambitious and concrete objectives for their work, which the commission can evaluate. otherwise, nothing will happen. the commission must set up a high representative against racism who will ensure that the fight against all forms of racism is a priority in the member states, especially as we see today how racism and racists are entering our parliaments. finally, i have a specific question for the council. when will you confirm the establishment of 2 august as the european day of remembrance for the roma? i think parliament has done its part, and now you must do yours. last week we celebrated the international roma day all week long, roma week, with a large majority, a large participation of the various political groups. we had party leadership debates, we had exhibitions, we had various seminars, only to find that despite national strategies, the inclusion of the roma is not working. we have to turn the pancake around a little bit, we also have to work against the majority society. there is a change of attitude. politicians and people on the bus are shamelessly expressing negative views towards roma people all over europe. i was in berlin on april 8th. i had several meetings with different participants. i was watching movies. in at least a thousand camps across europe, roma are settling without access to electricity, without access to water, without access to schools for their children, without any access to health care. the situation is catastrophic. if we do not act now, europe will have to stand with a very long nose and receive a lot of shame from the rest of the world. it is not acceptable that in a modern democratic society we should continue to have 10 to 12 million people living below the poverty line. it's a great shame. we have to act now. we can't wait. the extreme right is exploiting this group to the maximum and is actually winning voters because we established political parties are not addressing the issue as we should. we in the socialist group have put forward a programme. we're in position. we're on the move. we will not accept this. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank the political group leaders who took part in the debate. everyone was there except for the alde group who had some kind of handicap. however, other parties have clearly demonstrated their commitment to ensuring that the roma issue is on the political agenda, despite all the other difficult challenges we face. so now i would like the commission to take this matter seriously. it's not acceptable in 2016 that we go into the next year without having done anything. now something has to be done. this is not acceptable.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. this report on the annual reports on subsidiarity and proportionality 2012-2013 contains several good suggestions to put the eu on the right track to make the subsidiarity check work, which is very important for strengthening democracy in the eu. it also contains a number of rather bad proposals on an excess of impact assessments. i shall begin by talking about the problem with this report. impact assessments are not as easy to do as one might think. it is easy to come up with figures - not necessarily correct figures - but figures for how much it will cost a company to implement, for example, a new good environmental legislation. however, it is more difficult to quantify the socioeconomic benefits of a proposal. impact assessments risk being skewed towards inaction. the commission's proposal to have impact assessments before, during and after the work on a proposal, as proposed in this report, is far too much impact assessment and would create problems for the eu's ability to act. the good things in the report are about making the eu's subsidiarity control work, getting the yellow card which is not being used at all today to the extent that it should be. 15 of the 28 eu member states' parliaments hardly use it at all. there are things we can do here to make the subsidiarity and proportionality checks work. we could take the time parliament has to do that and extend it. we could take and introduce a green card, so that parliaments have the opportunity to put forward their own proposals to the commission which the commission can look at. there is much to be done, and i hope the next report will be even better.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur very much for an excellent report. better regulation is a roadmap to a better-functioning single market. better single market rules are not about diminishing workers’ or consumer rights; they are about about diminishing bureaucracy and red tape. the single market rules must be simple, proportionate and applicable in the real economy. we need to move from inadequate to quality impact assessments and to make problem—solving tools, such as solvit and your europe, available to all citizens. dialogue with stakeholders is essential, and so is avoiding gold-plating, where member states impose an extra burden when implementing single market rules. it is therefore bizarre that the left are resisting the better regulation agenda at a time when we need a transparent, effective single market that is closer to our citizens. we need enforcement, not ideological confrontation between business and consumers. as commissioner timmermans rightly says, we need to be big on big things and small on small things.
rapporteur.– madam president, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation in this report. a special thanks also to the long-distance advisory council, which was very timely in organising a conference in las palmas on the issue so that we could take their input into account in the drafting of the report. i am very happy that we all share the ambition of promoting sustainable fishing, keeping fish stocks above levels that can produce maximum sustainable yield, not only inside the eu waters but also outside the eu. historically there have been very good reasons to be critical of fisheries agreements – they used to be very unsustainable. the great achievement of the new common fisheries policy is the inclusion of rules on fishing activities outside of the eu. the eu is now bound to respect human rights and only fish from surplus stocks. the transparency provisions in the new protocol on mauritania that will soon be voted on at parliament should work as a guideline, and i want to thank the commission here. i know that the negotiations with mauritania were very hard, and the commission should be praised for doing a great job. now we need to make sure that the conditions are met, and we will follow proceedings very closely to make sure that mauritania lives up to its commitments and publishes all its agreements with other states and private companies. there are many good ambitions that we share in this report – the establishment of regulatory framework for joint ventures, for instance. since the cfp is to be a vehicle to provide technical, scientific and financial assistance to third countries, the eu must promote the harmonisation of conditions of access to african waters for all foreign fleets. the regional management of fisheries should be encouraged, including control programmes, and the network of fisheries agreements is to be used to ensure that other distant fishing fleets also respect the same standards of sustainability. the eu should encourage third countries to develop a regulatory framework for joint ventures from the eu and other interests as the best way of ensuring that such joint ventures are sustainable and transparent. over party lines, i am happy that the european parliament shares the objective of using the influence of the eu on the international stage in order to improve fisheries management and transparency standards. the eu should encourage a race to the top, instead of a race to the bottom, in international fisheries. i hope that we can cooperate in the same great spirit on the commission’s new proposal on the fishing authorisation regulation, for which i am rapporteur. we will start at the next strasbourg part-session, as i understand.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the bosnian serb leader radovan karadžić has been convicted by the hague tribunal of, among other things, genocide. the judgement, despite its shortcomings, will be important for establishing the truth about the war and the reconciliation process in bosnia, one of the eu candidate countries still plagued by problems. a few days later, however, extremist vojislav šešelj was acquitted in full, mainly because the tribunal has failed to establish a link between šešelj's hateful rhetoric and the war crimes committed. it may be that it is legally difficult to prove a link between saying, as šešelj said, that one wants to 'dig out the eyes of every croat' and the crimes that have been committed. morally, though, it's not the least bit difficult. if the court cannot condemn these statements, we politicians must do so. the release of šešelj will have major implications for reconciliation and eu enlargement. eu politicians must therefore support both the reconciliation and enlargement process by more clearly condemning the atrocities committed and thereby creating the moral justice that the court has failed to create.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, the report on a holistic approach to migration contains many good elements, and i would like to thank the co-rapporteurs for their excellent work on this. i consider this report an important blueprint for how the eu could create a common well-functioning asylum system fit for today. the crisis in europe demonstrates the complete failure of our national governments to set up a functioning asylum system fit for the world of today, but unfortunately national leaders have played the rhetoric up to such a level that they manage to convince both themselves and parts of the electorate that we cannot do anything about the crisis. we need to get this straight: one million refugees as against 500 million europeans represents 0.2% of our population. compare that to a country that i visited last week, lebanon, where a 30% ratio is facing the everyday life of the lebanese people: there we are talking about a great influx and a big, big problem. i am convinced that the vast majority of european citizens want to see a fair system that grants protection and dignity to people fleeing persecution and war, and at the same time they want member states to share the responsibility in a fair way, where each country gives its contribution and shares the responsibilities. today i hope that we are going to send a clear message to the citizens of europe that this european parliament has the vision for such a system. as the rapporteur for the reform of the dublin regulation, i am especially proud of the joint commitment from all major political groups in this house to real reform of the dublin regulation, which will enable us finally to see a centralised european system where applicants are distributed fairly among eu member states. but after the vote of today, we will all need to get to work to ensure that this initiative is followed by determined and concrete legislation.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is just as many have said, namely that we have been working on this report for a very long time now, and we did so even before the large flows of refugees came to us in the autumn. i am not as critical as the previous speaker, but i can also say that this report too has a very strong focus on what is happening in europe rather than on the overall picture of migration and why people are actually moving. however, after the large flows of refugees in the autumn, the debate has largely been about how to deal with the emergency situation, what we call a refugee crisis. at the same time, it is not a refugee crisis that we have, but it is our reception systems that have collapsed, and it is these that we must work with to have a better opportunity in the future. however, i think that perhaps the most important point in this report is the question of humanitarian visas. we have a report in the house. the commission has put forward proposals to amend the visa regulation and parliament will propose the introduction of a humanitarian visa for those who come as refugees. it's a legal and long-term solution to stop people using people smugglers. however, we also need to have a model for those who come as economic migrants. the report also addresses legal avenues for economic migrants. the so-called blue card procedure is not enough. we must find a model for economic migrants other than the highly educated. in this way we can also solve the long-term problem of the need for poor people not to travel by boat across the mediterranean.
mr president, i would like to thank you. how do you think it is even possible to establish a common asylum policy when some countries, with their incredible, irresponsible immigration policies, have gotten their heads in the sand and are begging and pleading for exemption from the proposed forced distribution mechanism that the eu wants to impose on the member states? how can you even believe in a common asylum policy when the limit has long since been reached for many member states, which have taken in more than they can handle? we heard earlier that there was talk of jobs in the member states. i wonder which member states are able to offer jobs to these migrants with little education. in sweden we have very high unemployment, and it's not getting any better. it would therefore be interesting to know which member states have the possibility of offering work. we are talking about solidarity. we are talking about integration. integration is something that everyone talks about a lot, but it rarely works. how can integration even succeed when the member states themselves cannot decide how many migrants they consider they can take in? what is to be done with those member states which reject a common asylum policy? (the speaker accepted to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
(blue card) yes, i can say that i have heard many times that we must have immigration because we have a decreasing population. but the fact is that too many of the migrants who arrive take up to 20 years to enter the labour market. that's why it's all nonsense. what we need is usually highly educated people. i mean, for these migrants that come, it usually takes a very long time to get into the labor market.
mr president, i would like to thank you. everyone is talking about solidarity. the only solidarity i see today is the joint action to dismantle respect for human rights and the fundamental values of the european union. what we see today in the eu is that we lock up refugees, we deport them to an increasingly authoritarian state. we see a candidate country firing tear gas at women and children. the eu is therefore doing everything it can to avoid taking on the responsibilities of the un refugee commission. they say we don't have the resources to take on more. an example: at the same time, border checks between sweden and denmark cost about eur 300 000 a day. money is not the problem. the problem is the rise of nationalism and xenophobia that is affecting politics today. this is the question that will determine the future of the european union. we must send a clear signal for a new direction in migration policy, based on respect for human rights, in which we stand in solidarity for what the fundamental values of the eu are all about. refugees shall be regarded as human beings with fundamental rights, whose lives are worth saving and protecting. we need immediate action to save lives and to create safe and legal routes to europe. i would just like to point out that kristina winberg's comments about unemployment in sweden are a lie. she's lying to you. we're actually down six percent in sweden today.
mr president, i would like to thank you. let me repeat once again that the crisis in the eu's agricultural sector affects many people who are active in many different sectors: pigmeat, milk, fruit, vegetables, butter, etc. this requires that we take it seriously and give an adequate response from the eu. i do not agree with those who say that the biggest problem is the conflict with russia and russia's actions. my belief is that the crisis is largely caused by internal problems: inefficient markets, fragmented subsidized sectors that overproduce, lack of innovation, weak competition, falling demand. all of this is met with short-term solutions. the eu commission has so far come up with short-term solutions, such as support for private storage. i understand that such solutions are sometimes necessary. but if the commission is to solve this situation, it must begin to develop measures to address and solve the structural problems of agriculture. until we deal with this, nothing will be better in the long run.
‒ today the european parliament voted on an own-initiative report on the eu's long-term migration policy. the report makes a number of points which i welcome. the emphasis on the common responsibility of member states for migration, the need for legal pathways into europe, secure external borders and the preservation of schengen cooperation as well as a permanent redistribution mechanism. that is why i voted in favour of the final vote. i think, however, that the report mentions the agreement concluded by the eu with turkey in too positive terms. there is every reason to be sceptical of the agreement in question, which was basically only created as a consequence of the lack of a sustainable european migration policy.
in writing. - i've put my vote down. my basic view is that the eu has centralised too much power in its own institutions, especially the bureaucrats in the european commission. national parliaments need much more power within the eu system. i appreciate that the report is critical of the commission and that it stresses that the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are not properly respected. however, the report also contains unclear texts, particularly on the question of investment protection. with these arguments, and my fundamental criticism of the eu, i choose to abstain.
in writing. - i voted no. the commission has long been talking about simplifying legislation and reducing administrative burdens. this interest has been centred on the companies and their requirements. the result has been that the commission, while talking about simplification and reducing burdens, has put forward proposals which would have made things easier for companies but which would also have led to a deterioration in the working environment, health and social rights of workers. the report does address some of these problems, which is good, but it does not go far enough in welcoming the various new commitments made by the commission. i would like to see the principle established that simplifications must never, under any circumstances, lead to a deterioration of the situation of workers, consumers and the environment. the eu's harmonised legislation also threatens to weaken the original legislation of certain countries in various fields. for these reasons, i choose to vote no.
‒ today the european parliament voted on an own-initiative report on the teaching of eu knowledge in schools. the low level of awareness of eu cooperation among citizens is an urgent problem that should be taken seriously. this is particularly true in sweden, where the eu dimension of the social debate is all but absent. but just because a problem is identified, it does not mean that the eu is the one to solve it. the report calls for eu funds to be used for targeted initiatives to increase eu knowledge among students in the union and provides detailed views on the curricula of the member states. increasing the number of brussels mandates is not the way to achieve greater eu awareness among citizens.
‒ eu citizens show very limited knowledge of the eu and its institutions. of all those surveyed in a survey carried out by eurostat, 44% admitted that they do not know how the eu works. this is very problematic from a democratic point of view, because the eu has a significant impact on our lives. without knowledge of the eu, a common educational plan and a common public media space, the eu will remain a paper structure, overly sensitive to political cycles. the fact that this is happening in a context where the eu is facing several serious crises is even more alarming. eu citizens therefore need to learn much more about the eu, not only in schools but also in political parties, associations, businesses, etc. when garibaldi united italy, the italian patriot massimo d'azeglio said: now that we've created italy, we have to create italians. today, people are tempted to say: now that we have created the eu, we must create europeans before the eu breaks up. i therefore welcome this report.
in writing. - i've lowered my vote. the main objective of the report is to increase mobility and cooperation with the private sector in vocational training as a means of reducing youth unemployment. i think that we should emphasize the importance of expansionary economic policies as a means of tackling unemployment and that education systems should not primarily adapt to the needs of enterprises. on the other hand, the report highlights very important aspects of how erasmus+ can be made more inclusive and also reach groups that are not currently participating in the programmes. it's a self-critical and important reflection. with these arguments, i have decided to abstain.
‒ the report contains many positive recommendations on eu participation in international financial bodies recommendations that could increase transparency and accountability. we are opposed, however, to the calls for the introduction of binding mechanisms to prevent member states from taking positions in global organisations which run counter to decisions taken within the eu. preventing member states from taking individual positions would undermine the national sovereignty of states.
‒ the report contains many positive recommendations on eu participation in international financial bodies recommendations that could increase transparency and accountability. we are opposed, however, to the calls for the introduction of binding mechanisms to prevent member states from taking positions in global organisations which run counter to decisions taken within the eu. preventing member states from taking individual decisions in the economic field would undermine the national sovereignty of states.
in writing. we swedish social democrats support the main features of this report. we believe that it would be useful if the eu countries coordinated themselves more actively in various economic-related international organisations. at the same time, we believe that coordination should not go too far. the establishment of directly binding mechanisms for this purpose would risk unduly hampering national self-determination.
‒ the report contains many positive recommendations on eu participation in international financial bodies recommendations that could increase transparency and accountability. we are opposed, however, to the calls for the introduction of binding mechanisms to prevent member states from taking positions in global organisations which run counter to decisions taken within the eu. preventing member states from taking individual positions would undermine the national sovereignty of states.
madam president, my heart is with all the victims and their families. against terrorism we need to be responsible and join forces across political groups to implement the anti-terrorism pact. most importantly we need better sharing of information and strengthening the tools we have rather than creating new eu structures, as the problem is mutual trust. member states must develop secure channels of information-sharing that they can all trust. we should reinforce europol and also ensure better sharing of information of criminal and terrorist records. we also need better control over our external borders, with biometric passports for eu citizens. we have to update databases such as sis, vis and eurodac, taking fingerprints and ensuring information-sharing and cross-checking in a secure way. we should also adopt the eu pnr and continue with better financial tracking. data protection should be no obstacle to saving the lives of innocent people. we should stand up for our freedoms and open society and ensure citizens that we have given ourselves the tools to ensure their safety. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i did not say that europe is not a safe place; i said we have to be responsible, join forces and show the european citizens that we take their safety and security very seriously. i do not know why my social democrat colleague raises the issue of refugees, because we are talking about terrorism, and the two issues should remain distinct. refugees are not terrorists; many of them are actually victims of terrorism.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. there are a number of areas which we greens are prioritising. i will just mention a few of them. the long-term conflict prevention work is one of these areas. and by that, i don't just mean diplomacy or security sector reform, but i also mean we should fight the consequences of climate change, poverty, oppression, unfair trade conditions, and so on. climate, trade and development policies are important to achieve a more just and peaceful world. the eu's main focus must also be on human security and also peacebuilding. in this context, we would like to encourage member states to participate more effectively in un peacekeeping operations. very few people do today. the eu must also guarantee respect for international law, human rights and other common values. in that perspective, i do not think that the agreement with turkey is up to that, nor is the military operation eunavfor med sophia. the commissioner was talking about disarmament. i think that's very good. we must work actively for global disarmament. however, we must also be careful when exporting arms to third countries. we are living in a completely new security situation, where today's friend may be tomorrow's enemy. we also need to fight terrorism in a way that doesn't create more terrorists or encourage conflict. the best way to prevent radicalization is to prevent it. we must also protect an open europe, as opposed to an overly militarised europe.
blue-card question.– i have a question for mr farage, sitting behind the british flag. do you not think it is embarrassing for many brits that a speaker, speaking behind the british flag, is celebrating a referendum of which the only winner is mr putin, who now is celebrating the fact that europe is not united behind the cooperation with ukraine?
madam president, i would like to thank you. a politician's first duty is to protect the interests of his country. that is why i am here today - not as a european, but as a swede. that is why i oppose most of the idiocy produced in this house, where you are constantly trying to turn my country into a client state of the corrupt and power-mad eu. now that you have failed to maintain the external border security and economic migrants are pouring into europe, your panic solution is to bow to turkey's blackmail. we are talking about a country that violates human rights, and that does not uphold democracy and freedom of speech. this country is now offering you vast amounts of taxpayer money to solve your failures. you are using a fast track to attract people to the eu, to a country which is not even european, but asian. who do you think you are? you're trying to impose a policy on europe that nobody wants to hear about.
madam president, i would like to thank you. in my native swedish, we have a saying that "wherever you turn, your ass is behind you". now, when we see the strategy of the council and the commission that we are going to solve the refugee crisis by stopping the flows and making a deal with turkey, then the flows will change, and what looks like the next step is libya. so we are back, my friends, to the debts and the crises that europe has helped create in libya, which is not a functioning country. what is the commission and council's plan to make libya work? how can we have a functioning country that can take responsibility for its people and the people who come there? the strategy of closing the border with turkey and sending people back cannot be just about that route. if so, you must take greater responsibility for other roads and routes for people who want to come here.
madam president, two conclusions about those who would like to split the european union and fragment europe. the migration challenge is a long-term challenge, and we can have different views on how to deal with it. we can be critical of different solutions, maybe because no solution will be perfect anyway. but what is very clear is that if we do not do it together, we will not be able to do it at all. and that would be a moral shame against all those people who are fleeing from brutality and atrocities. that shame would be a boon to those who want us to split and fragment and not to be able to live up to our responsibility. second, ukraine: if we turn our back on ukraine, we are creating an opening for the forces of darkness undermining european stability. this is a message to the council and the commission: remain behind ukraine, give them support and ensure that we can stand up as a united europe.
‒ the eu globalisation fund is intended to provide grants to people who have become unemployed following the closure of european companies. the christian democrats are opposed to this fund for two reasons. first, labour market policies and financial support for the unemployed should be decided on, and financed, at national level not at eu level. secondly, the fund's basic idea is that globalisation is something negative - which is not true. i therefore consistently vote against the disbursement of the fund. i sympathize with the volvo workers who have lost their jobs, but it is sweden that should take responsibility for supporting them in the transition phase to a new job not the eu.
in writing. ‒ we believe that prosperity is created through free trade and fair competition. we therefore oppose the european globalisation adjustment fund on principle, which we regard as an expression of protectionism. we have accepted in the past that the fund was used as a purely emergency measure in a time of deep economic crisis, as a way of countering people's sense of hopelessness and the exclusion that follows in the wake of the crisis and that risks further reinforcing the wave of nationalism and xenophobia spreading in europe. however, in the light of the swedish national audit office's analysis, which suggests that the fund does indeed have a negative impact on returning to work, we believe that the fund has lost its legitimacy and should not be used any more.
in writing. ‒ we believe that prosperity is created through free trade and fair competition. we therefore oppose the european globalisation adjustment fund on principle, which we regard as an expression of protectionism. we have accepted in the past that the fund was used as a purely emergency measure in a time of deep economic crisis, as a way of countering people's sense of hopelessness and the exclusion that follows in the wake of the crisis and that risks further reinforcing the wave of nationalism and xenophobia spreading in europe. however, in the light of the swedish national audit office's analysis, which suggests that the fund does indeed have a negative impact on returning to work, we believe that the fund has lost its legitimacy and should not be used any more.
in writing. - i voted for the report. this report increases the eu budget for refugees by eur 100 million. there is a great need to improve the eu's work on refugees, from relocation to reception and integration. two million euro will go to europol and efforts to combat terrorism. the left party does not want to increase europol's budget. there is already extensive cooperation between member states, and in addition, bilateral cooperation between national police forces of member states could be extended instead of a super-eu police. the most important thing is that the situation of refugees is significantly improved. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ we voted on a non-binding opinion to the commission on the renewal of the authorisation for glyphosate. it was important for me to highlight in particular the fundamental issues surrounding the union's approach to chemicals. i think it is important to stick to the principle that it is not for politicians to make scientific judgments, but that it is something that should be left to science. in europe we have a system where efsa, as a scientific expert, does the scientific analysis on which we then base a possible permit. as the regulatory framework currently stands, there is the possibility of withdrawing a substance's authorisation if scientific facts emerge that lead the scientific analysis to a different conclusion. it is important that this possibility is used and that efsa performs new analyses if new facts become available. as regards glyphosate, i note that efsa has made a recommendation to the commission which enables it to propose a renewal of the authorisation for glyphosate. for me, it is not important how many years a permit is granted, but that we have a system where chemicals can be approved based on a scientific analysis done by experts, not by politicians.
in writing. we support the resolution as it has not been scientifically proven that glyphosate has carcinogenic and endocrine disrupting effects in humans, which is contrary to the precautionary principle. we therefore object to the commission renewing the authorization for glyphosate for another 15 years. in order to avoid the resolution being defeated, we were forced to make certain compromises in the vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it opens the door to the continued but cautious and responsible authorisation of glyphosate. the european food safety authority (efsa) has reached the firm conclusion that glyphosate, the active substance in plant protection products used in many eu countries, is unlikely to pose a carcinogenic risk. the approval of glyphosate is now extended for seven years and would be re-evaluated in the event that efsa reaches other scientifically based conclusions.
in writing. we welcome the initiative for a new broad strategy for the eu's overall external relations and consider it important that the european parliament, through the report, should be involved and influence its formulation. we are convinced that, among other things, enhanced cooperation with a reformed un, increased european diplomacy and multilateral cooperation are crucial for the eu to effectively respond to current security challenges, such as terrorist attacks. we believe, however, that increased cooperation should not affect the specific nature of the security and defence policy of the member states. we therefore oppose the calls for the development of common defence forces and the formulation of a common defence policy with a european defence union as its objective. we are also critical of the report's call for an increase in the eu's own resources.
in writing. we swedish social democrats welcome a review of the eu's strategy for central asia and believe that the report very clearly emphasises the importance of respect for human rights and democratic principles in the region. we believe that gsp+ can be an important instrument to achieve this and therefore we welcome the application by kyrgyzstan. however, we would like to stress that we believe that the european commission now has a very big responsibility to ensure that kyrgyzstan now fully complies with the gsp+ requirements.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on measures to prevent the further spread of the zika virus. the resolution contains a number of important proposals on prevention, coordination of action and planning. i voted against the papers that contained comments on the medical ethics laws of other countries. the european parliament should respect the principle of subsidiarity and the national character of these issues. controversial elements are proposals to require measures in the area of sexual and reproductive health, including abortion. the epp's line was to vote freely on issues relating to sexual and reproductive health and to vote against requests for access to abortion and, if the proposals to not provide access to abortion were rejected, to vote against the resolution as a whole. i voted against the texts on abortion on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity but for the resolution as a whole.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. the resolution expresses serious concern at political developments in poland, with a focus on constitutional issues such as amendments to the constitutional court. it is deeply regrettable, however, that not a word is said about the plans to ban abortions altogether. the amendments of the left group, which condemned the restrictions on abortion and defended women's right to their own bodies, were unfortunately not passed. the resolution would, of course, have been much better by showing that oppression of women and contempt for democracy are closely linked. while the other political groups are silent, we in the left group stand in solidarity with all the thousands of demonstrators who have protested in poland and elsewhere in europe for democracy and women's rights. that is why i voted in favour of both the amendments and the resolution.
in writing. ‒ there are worrying developments in poland, where the new government is putting forward proposals that challenge the values and principles that are the foundation of a democratic state in europe. this resolution focuses on the importance of all member states upholding the principles which are the foundation of democracy in europe. it is therefore worrying that the polish government, for example, is challenging the rule of law by not following the ruling of the polish constitutional court. it was important to have a strong support from parliament in this vote. as for the question of abortion rights, it is something that i and the centre party stand for in all situations. our position on this matter has been clear for a long time. this resolution, which was raised precisely because of the polish government's decision not to comply with its constitutional court, is not primarily about the right to abortion but about fundamental constitutional issues. i therefore chose not to vote on two amendments tabled by the gue/ngl group, as they were not in line with the resolution's actual focus.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to express my warm thanks to the rapporteurs, as do all the others, for their tireless work on this legislative package. i am particularly pleased today that we now have the opportunity to vote on legislation on data protection which will protect the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens while not creating too many difficulties for those who have to deal with the new regulatory framework in different ways. my main objection initially was the need to protect the possibility of register-based research, particularly in my home country sweden, but also in some other member states. the vast research databases that have been built up over a very long period of time are an invaluable resource for scientists from all over the world in their search for treatments and drugs to combat disease and ill health of all kinds. it would have been a disaster if this research had been made impossible. it is therefore very gratifying that the scientists who have raised their concerns have been heard, and we have a balanced legislative proposal which i am happy and proud to be able to adopt now. (the president agreed to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
(blue card) what i have to say i have already said, namely that this is a well-balanced, fine proposal which takes fundamental freedoms and rights very seriously and at the same time restricts people and actors, especially businesses, from profiting from people's fundamental rights. we have found a well-balanced proposal and i am proud to recommend colleagues to vote on it tomorrow.
madam president, i am afraid i am not here to sing with the angels. after so many years – let’s be honest – we did not achieve the aim. we wanted simple harmonised rules and legal certainty, with the right balance between protecting individuals and the free flow of data. i am glad we have achieved one pillar – integrity – but in europe we are not building common rules on exceptions. the result, i am afraid, is fragmentation, legal uncertainty and complexity. we wanted to provide a legal playing field, reducing red tape and boosting the single market. but where is the big success when smes are warning us that there will be more red tape, less investments and less jobs in europe? our hope was to pave the way for the digital single market by removing borders, barriers and burdens, but these rules are not future-proof and could actually be a break to innovation. i also regret that we missed a big opportunity to protect our children online, and i hope we will be able to find a solution with the digital community.
mr president, i would like to thank you. when one hears the representatives of the governments of the member states, one easily gets the impression that if only the pnrs had existed, terrorism and serious crime would be a thing of the past. the reality, however, is not so simple. the pnr is one of many tools that can facilitate law enforcement action, particularly in the area of serious crime and terrorism. we would have achieved real efficiency if we had deepened cooperation, if we had had an automatic exchange of information, which the governments of the member states unfortunately did not want to see. after all, the pnr is a tool that can help protect and instill security in citizens across the eu. that is why i and a large majority of my group will vote in favour of the pnr.
madam president, to face the magnitude of the threat against us, we should unite and be constructive to reassure citizens that we are doing all we can for their security. how much more blood has to be shed before we come together and drop this ideologically infected debate? i am sad that there is still resistance to adopting obvious measures when the experts tell us clearly that pnr is essential to prevent and combat terrorism. passenger name records are not a magic recipe against terrorism but an essential tool in a limited toolbox. let us be honest: eu common rules on pnr will protect citizens’ privacy more than the current national system, not less. at the moment we do not know what happens to our data when we travel. with the new pnr we will have more transparency and common safeguards. member states will be able to exchange information in a secure way, also via europol. the key is better information-sharing to identify the routes taken by foreign fighters going back and forth, for example to syria and iraq, to train and plan attacks against us. i also welcome the fact that the member states decided – despite the fact that the epp was against it – to also include intra—eu flights. we also need to work on anti—radicalisation, prevention, better control of our external border and more cooperation with third countries. but the key is that we come together to face terrorism. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– citizens are truly concerned and worried, and we have to show that we are serious and responsible in giving concrete responses. no one will give you a guarantee that something – a tool, an instrument – will suddenly make terrorism and organised crime disappear from europe, obviously not. but the police, the intelligence community, europol, all the experts we have been talking to throughout the years (because we are not experts on terrorism): they tell us clearly that pnr is a way to give them a tool to better collect and use information on travel. when we talk about european citizens travelling to syria and to iraq to be radicalised, trained to attack freely there and come back, it is … (the president cut off the speaker)
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. i wish i could stand here today and applaud the developments in turkey. i wish i could say that democratic development is on the right track. i wish i could say that freedom of the press, freedom of expression, the independence of the judiciary and human rights are generally respected. i wish i could say that turkey's path to eu membership is without stumbling blocks. i wish i could say that the peace talks with the kurds are going well and that peace is in sight. i'm afraid i can't say anything like that. most of it is going in the wrong direction. it is a tragedy, especially for all the democrats in turkey who, against all odds, stand up for democracy, human rights for all, peace and justice. this year's resolution is highly critical of developments in turkey in terms of virtually all rights. it also calls very clearly on both sides to cease violence and return to peace negotiations. however, to negotiate, you must have a party to talk to. today, one side is building palaces, while the other has been imprisoned and isolated since 1999. abdullah öcalan has not seen his family since october 2015 and has not seen his lawyer since july 2011. his correspondence has been completely blocked since april 2015. according to several un envoys, it constitutes cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment that may amount to torture. that's why we greens are proposing that the isolation of öcalan be lifted.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the report on turkey contains many facts which call into question the country's current leadership, not to mention its suitability as a candidate country. the report shows that turkey's positive development has stalled, particularly in the areas of fundamental democratic aspects such as the rule of law, freedom of expression and freedom of assembly. we can read how the turkish government has created a constitution which stipulates a parliamentary lock-up of as much as 10 per cent. this shows that turkey is a country with clear authoritarian tendencies. it is also clear that turkey is playing a very high and risky game in its foreign and security policy. in its eagerness to revive old ottoman ambitions for great power, it has plunged itself into the deadly intrigues of the middle east. turkey has been involved in the conflict in syria, and many even claim - whether justified or not - that turkey is playing under the table with murderous groups like al-nusra and isis. as the icing on the cake, turkey has succeeded in pushing for highly favourable agreements with the eu on the issue of migration.
madam president, i support the turkey progress report. the time has come to recognise turkey’s role in receiving three million refugees with dignity. at the same time we should continue to raise our concerns on freedom of expression, an independent judiciary and the rule of law, as well as the humanitarian situation and a disproportionate military reaction in the south-east. both sides must lay down weapons and return to the negotiating table. i also welcome the eu action plan with turkey and the disbursement of eur 95 million. this should benefit the refugees. implementation should be according to international standards and the principle of non-refoulement. asylum seekers must be evaluated on a human, legally-certain and individual basis and turkey should be listed as a safe country of return. i also welcome the fact that the accession process finally is back on track. the best way to boost democratic reforms is by opening chapters with a european perspective. it is not a trade-off, it is win-win.
madam president, i would like to thank you. first of all, let me thank the rapporteur for an excellent report. bosnia and herzegovina has made very significant and far-reaching progress in its efforts to become a member of the european union. the council must respond to its request swiftly. progressive work is under way to implement the reforms needed to meet eu requirements. it is important that all three major ethnic groups have a constitutionally protected right to be represented in this work and in all the country's political institutions. at the same time, this benevolent intention can become a hindrance if it is only overused and exploited to stop the necessary reforms. representation is an important principle, but if you take it to an extreme it will become an obstacle. i therefore expect the european commission to encourage more strongly the implementation of reforms and to give priority to this work. it is more important that reforms are implemented than who is implementing them. in the forthcoming work on a new electoral law, it is particularly important to focus on citizens, their participation and not the participation of ethnic groups. it is the only way to enable the country to meet the requirements we put on it more quickly.
madam president, i would like to thank you. tonight we are debating the directive on trade secrets. trade secrets are there to protect companies from industrial espionage, not to protect companies from scrutiny. the commissioner said in this debate that the aim is not to protect fraudulent companies. but that is the effect of the very weak protection for whistleblowers contained in this proposal. let's say a whistleblower wants to leak thousands of pages of information that reveals really gross violations of public morality and good morals that a company is committing. that whistleblower is in a legal gray area. it is impossible to check that when misconduct is revealed, some business secrets are not also disclosed. i am not surprised that the commission has listened too much to the big companies. what surprises me, however, is that the social democrats have not fought enough for better protection for whistleblowers.
there is an oral amendment which we would like to adopt. they take away the and the doğan media groups.
in writing. we, the swedish social democrats in the european parliament, voted in favour of the report on a directive to protect undisclosed trade secrets from being unlawfully acquired, exploited and disclosed. we have been critical of the commission's original proposals from the start, but have managed to negotiate documents calling for exemptions for whistleblowers and freedom of expression and press. we also succeeded in securing wording on the right to collective bargaining, worker mobility and reporting to authorities. these demands, which parliament and the council have agreed to, are too important for us to jeopardise at second reading when the likelihood of a majority is deemed to be non-existent. furthermore, we consider that the definition of trade secrets is still too broad and may leave room for different interpretations. but given the guarantees we have managed to achieve in other important parts of the legislative text, we consider it unjustified to vote against the proposal as a whole.
‒ the report sets out parliament's overall orientations for its budget for the financial year 2017. i have voted against the whole report because the drafting process has been very flawed and because i do not think it is appropriate for parliament to adopt such a detailed position before the ordinary budgetary procedure has even started. i have chosen to support the principle of parliament moving all its work to one place, i.e. no more moving to strasbourg 12 times a year. i voted against the parliament's increase in the budget for next year. i have also voted against some very detailed reports on travel allowances and so on because i do not think it is relevant to deal with that kind of detailed questions.
- i abstained from the vote. the resolution strongly criticises turkey, notably on democratic freedoms, women's rights and lgbtqi issues, attacks on free media, its role in is and the syrian war. it called for further talks on the cyprus question. the resolution calls for an immediate ceasefire in south-eastern turkey and the resumption of the peace process, but unfortunately designates the pkk as a terrorist organisation. the resolution also does not distance itself from the eu-turkey agreement on the deportation of refugees. i therefore chose to abstain in the final vote. i would also like to make it clear that the left party is calling for the recognition of the armenian genocide, but i did not vote for such an amendment because it was put forward by the extreme right.
‒ the report is parliament's comment on the commission's report on turkey. the agreement with turkey on migration issues gave a clear signal to the resolution, as did the renewed eu accession negotiations. i was clear in my vote about the demands we are making on turkey, namely that despite the agreement, turkey must show clear improvements in the humanitarian field and that the eu must not fail to take its responsibility on migration. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been involved in the fight against organised crime. it is important that we make demands on turkey in terms of democracy, diversity and human rights.
in writing. we swedish social democrats want to emphasise that we support the demand that turkey recognise the genocide of armenians. we also wish to underline that we welcome all efforts made to move forward the reconciliation process in cyprus, in order to allow the parties to reach a settlement of the matter in accordance with the 2014 memorandum of understanding.
‒ i support this resolution which points out that albania has carried out significant reform work to promote democracy, the rule of law and human rights. the government should be encouraged to implement further reforms to continue on this path towards future eu membership. but moving closer to the eu is not just about solving its internal problems. european integration and regional cooperation are closely intertwined. albania has played a more constructive role in promoting regional stability and peace in the western balkans, and this should be continued. in the context of tense relations between kosovo albanians and kosovo serbs in kosovo, in view of the demonstrations that have taken place, albania should continue to assume a greater responsibility to contribute to more peaceful relations between these two groups.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the eu's own principles state that it is to be based on full respect for democracy and human rights fundamental rights , and these include, of course, women's rights. now is the time to show that you stand up for fundamental rights, not just in words, but in deeds. media freedoms are trampled on and women's rights are trampled on. this right, which is the most basic of all rights for women: to decide about our own bodies, whether we want to have children or not, when we have the right to have an abortion. we must take a stand today and that is why we thank the s&d group for the initiative and we naturally support it.
madam president, i would like to thank you. what we are seeing today is a different kind of warfare that has put in place systems to carry out deadly attacks on civilians, women and children wherever they are. this constitutes a serious war crime and requires absolutely immediate action by the eu. i think that condemning is itself a violation of international law. the eu has adopted guidelines which must be implemented, and each case must be investigated and the perpetrators brought to justice. if we allow this situation to continue, it will only lead to and contribute to more attacks. the council must consider an arms embargo against countries that violate international law. the countries that continue to sell arms to such countries are violating previously adopted council conclusions. the use of armed drones in these conflicts is alarming and the eu must develop a common position on this as a step towards global disarmament.
member of the commission.– madam president, honourable members, this commission – as president juncker committed to this house – has made democratic change and transparency one of its ten political priorities. our decisions affect millions of european citizens and therefore must be taken as democratically and transparently as possibly. the commission already applies high transparency standards, but we are always open to examining our tools and practices and to adapting them further where necessary and appropriate. the commission welcomes that the resolution calls for members of the parliament and the council to follow the commission’s practice regarding the publication of information on meetings held by top political leaders and decision makers. at the commission, information on more than 10 000 such meetings has been published. this transparency standard should become part of the culture of all eu institutions, as far as bilateral encounters with lobbyists, elected politicians and top decision—makers are concerned. the commission also welcomes parliament’s clear support for our intention to present a proposal for an inter—institutional agreement on a mandatory transparency register covering the three main institutions. to this effect, the commission launched a public consultation on 1 march 2016, with a view to submitting a proposal in the second half of this year. the commission is convinced that across the three eu institutions involved in law—making, the same standards of transparency should be applied. the commission also strongly welcomes the new inter-institutional agreement on better law—making. in that agreement, the commission together with the other two institutions committed itself to further improving transparency in legislative procedures, and to setting up practical arrangements for cooperation in future international negotiations. similarly, the creation of a joint the register of delegated acts by the end of 2017 will further increase the transparency of acts impacting on citizens and businesses. the commission calls on the co—legislators to adopt its proposals on access to documents aimed at extending the right of access to documents to all eu institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. the commission has consistently supported, and will continue supporting, the co-legislators in finding common ground on the two pending proposals updating and upgrading regulation 1049/2001. as regards the proactive publication of documents, i would like to recall that the commission has established a solid practice of document registration and publication in its document register. it actively supports the pilot project introduced by parliament, which is aimed at providing easier access to a wide range of unclassified documents held by eu institutions. the overall success of the project depends on building consistency between the institutions’ document management systems, including the need to avoid duplication of existing tools. the commission also makes constant efforts to comply with its publication requirements as defined in the sectorial legal bases. we take the view that the current rules and practices strike the right balance between transparency and the protection of personal data. as regards the suggestion to establish the post of transparency commissioner, i can assure you that first vice—president timmermans, who regrets he is unable to be here in person, is the commissioner who ensures compliance and improves administrative practices in the field of access to documents. i can also confirm that transparency is seen as an issue off paramount importance by the commission as a whole.
on behalf of the ppe group.– madam president, public access to documents is essential to enhance people’s trust in our work and to bridge the gap between citizens and the eu institutions. at a time where populists claim that eurocrats decide from brussels over people’s lives, undermining the legitimacy of the eu, the epp’s message is very clear: we have nothing to hide. we are committed to transparency, openness and accountability. we should open the doors of the european institutions to show that decisions are taken democratically. the european parliament is at the forefront, but more needs to be done, especially in the council. i call on the presidency to relaunch the negotiations on the regulation on public access to documents. citizens have the right to know what their representatives do on their behalf and how eu funds are spent in a fast, simple and user-friendly way. for instance, a common search and access point between the three institutions, like we have with the your europe portal, could make it easier for the public to find information. the people of europe should be able to be involved in, participate in and influence eu decisions. this does not mean direct democracy. in europe, we live in representative democracies and, of course, openness goes with responsibility. public access is not about wikileaks and it is not about whistle—blowers. privacy has to be respected, while ensuring transparency. and yes, laura, the trilogues and international agreements must be more transparent, but we need to ensure a climate of mutual trust and the space to think. this is necessary to achieve results in negotiations. personally, i committed to be open about my work. reconnecting with people and gaining their trust in europe is more important than ever, as we are confronted with common challenges that require a common european response.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. access to documents is a fundamental right protected both by the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and by the treaties. the report we are discussing today states that a prerequisite for a democratic political system is that citizens have the opportunity to know and to review how decisions are made. i am also rapporteur for the legislative report itself on the regulation on access to documents, the so-called transparency regulation, which is unfortunately blocked at the moment. in view of this deadlock, i think it is particularly important that we in the ferrara report clearly demand that all eu institutions and authorities apply the regulation in force and fair practices to the fullest extent and respect the changes brought about by the treaty of lisbon and the charter of fundamental rights. a good proposal in the ferrara report is that the eu institutions should facilitate the exercise of the right of access to documents and promote good administrative practice. this should be done through a uniform set of principles on access to documents, which should provide greater clarity for citizens. the report also proposes the creation of an administrative law for the eu. one issue which was discussed a great deal in the committee concerns the rules for tripartite meetings. they are important and effective from a legislative point of view, but they may raise questions about the transparency of the legislative process. the s&d group believes that greater transparency in the tripartite meetings is important to strengthen democracy, but it is also important to give co-legislators sufficient room for reflection. we therefore support the proposal to extend the reporting back to the responsible parliamentary committees on the state of play of the trilogue negotiations. documents drawn up in the context of tripartite meetings, such as agendas, summaries, minutes and general positions of the council, should be made public to the extent that they exist. the s&d group will vote in favour of this report as a whole as a clear signal that we in parliament are doing what we can to increase transparency in the eu.
author.– mr president, i would like to thank my colleagues, both in my committee, the committee on petitions, and in the committee on legal affairs, for their cooperation on this issue. it is our aim in my committee to improve our cooperation with the legislative committees to ensure that the citizens’ concerns and experiences are better taken into consideration in the legislative process. in addition to the testimonies of the direct experiences and problems related to eu law, the petitions that we receive also have an important role in helping to identify problems with the national implementation of eu law in the member states. this is important when we discuss how best to protect the best interest of children across borders in europe. in connection with the upcoming review of the brussels iia regulation and also in light of the increasing number of petitions addressed to parliament, i am happy that this debate is taking place here tonight. it is an issue of great importance because our committee has received a large number of petitions related to children’s welfare issues and their treatment by either judicial or administrative bodies in the member states. this is definitely a testimony for more cooperation in family matters with trans—border aspects. there is not only an urgent need to review the legal instruments, but also to try to find a way to avoid the harmful situations described in the petitions that we have received. we have ensured freedom of movement, but it is also our duty to take into deep consideration the consequences that citizens from different nationalities meet and decide to build a family, but as we know, couples can face problems and finally separate. that is why we must make all possible efforts to put instruments in place to handle the situation in the best way possible and, above all, with the best interests of the child as the paramount objective in all decisions. these two oral questions tonight have been raised in order to draw attention to the concrete problems that citizens are facing. finally, on a more personal note, i am happy to see that my dear colleague, jeanine hennis-plasschaert, is here representing the council tonight. i am sure that you will provide us, as always, with clear and fruitful answers to the question raised, and the same goes, of course, for commissioner věra jourová. thank you very much for your deep consideration on these important matters.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i am also very critical of this agreement with turkey, and i am particularly critical of the readmission provisions. but i also think that when you make an agreement with one party, you have to be able to trust that party and that both parties will honour the agreement. but we should also be concerned about turkey's behaviour in general with regard to refugees. how do you deal with people trying to get into turkey from syria, for example? the other day we read in the newspapers that a group of syrians trying to escape to turkey were killed. they were shot by turkish border guards. there were eight people, including women and children. this means that in the last four months, 16 people have died on the way from syria to turkey, shot by border guards. this is according to the syrian observatory for human rights. to the times, in this case, turkey has denied the allegations, but human rights watch and amnesty are also talking about how difficult it has become for syrian refugees to get into turkey. it's our business, too.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on safeguarding the best interest of the child across the eu because we need to increase cross-border cooperation among member states so as to ensure that children’s rights are fully respected. it is important for cross-border cases to create a common platform to share information among national authorities and other law enforcement authorities more effectively in order to protect missing children, facilitate mediation on international child abduction cases and strengthen mutual recognition of court decisions on international adoption cases, in full observance of the principle of subsidiarity. as co-chair of the intergroup on children’s rights, i am committed to ensuring that the best interest of the child be fully respected across the eu.
in writing. ‒ 53 reports on discharge were voted on today. i have voted yes to the discharge of a number of boards and executive bodies of various eu institutions and authorities. i am simply concerned that these boards have been carrying out their tasks and financing their activities in accordance with the rules. i can be critical of several of these eu institutions and authorities in principle, and i also think that some of them should be closed down. but the question of discharge is not about that.
‒ we believe that greater openness and transparency in the legislative process is of the utmost importance. we support increased transparency in trialogue meetings, where agenda items, summaries of results, minutes and general positions are made available to the public. however, we are against all trialogue meetings being open to the public, because that would mean that the real negotiations would be moved elsewhere.
‒ i have voted in favour of the report. the report highlights the particular vulnerability of female domestic workers in the eu. working conditions are often harsh, with long working hours and low pay. domestic workers are also highly exposed to violence, sexual abuse and other abuses. about 80 percent of domestic workers are women. the possibilities of making any demands on working conditions and wages or even of defending oneself against abuse are small in the dependent situation in which domestic workers usually find themselves. stronger protection is therefore needed to safeguard the rights of domestic workers. i did not, however, support the report's call for specific eu legislation for domestic workers. i believe that the eu member states must ratify the ilo convention (no 189) and recommendation (201) on the rights of domestic workers and fully implement them in their national legislation.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you very much for the floor, mr president. i would like to add two things to this debate. the first is tourism. tourism, which was presented here in parliament a few weeks ago in the committee responsible, namely the committee on transport, a manifesto for how we develop tourism in europe. when i read the manifesto, it could just as well have been presented in regi, because many of our regions have prioritised tourism as a basic industry which is important for creating jobs and employment in their regions. this applies to cities, towns and villages, regions and mountain areas, such as my own mountain area in northern sweden, which is now a winter sports centre. we have used european funds to develop tourism, and we can do that much better, so i look forward to regi also working with tran on tourism issues. i would then like to add the social economy, as chairman of the intergroup. there are many cooperatives and associations that are active in local development work that require more support than they are getting today.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i wanted to mention the visions that the commission, among others, has put forward in its work to make the energy union one of the major tasks of this mandate: to bring about a real change, to enable us to create common energy markets in europe to a greater extent, to increase energy self-sufficiency and production, to move closer to the climate objectives by investing more in our own energy, renewable energy, instead of the heavy dependence on imports that europe has on the outside world, and not least from russia, which we are discussing now. i think these visions are very important. it provides a basis for strengthening europe's position in the world and for strengthening our competitiveness, and it will also create many more jobs in the future, but also lower energy prices in the long term. the problem with this investment that we are talking about [...], is that this is going to go directly against almost every point of the vision that we are talking about for the energy union. and when you look at it from that perspective, it becomes unreasonable to make efforts, like one day talking about doing something together, creating sustainable development with less carbon, and also less vulnerability, but the next day doing the opposite. i think the commission must be much stronger, but i thank arias cañete for saying that the laws and regulations we have decided on here must also apply to this project. i would therefore also like to continue the argument put forward here by mr buzeck, chairman of the committee on industry and energy, with regard to the third energy package, that if we in europe really want to follow the rules we have set out in the third energy package, then it may be unreasonable, impossible for them to be compatible with this package, since nord stream 2 involves a supplier who has complete control over the entire infrastructure. i think it must be remembered that russia has used energy as a political weapon for the last thirty or forty years more than any other country, and gazprom is the main player in that game.
mr president, my thanks to the commissioner. everyone tends to love rules and competition until we need to practise them. then it gets tough, because it involves a lot of difficult issues. but i think it is quite clear that nord stream 2 has no real commercial logic on its own. it is not compatible with the principle and rules of unbundling, with the third energy package. it is not – and i cannot see how it could be – compatible with the aims and the rules of the energy union. it will increase the dominance of gazprom where it is dominant, it will strengthen its monopoly, and it is a part of russian policy versus europe. commissioner, it is a difficult thing to deal with, but do you think it will make europe more or less dependent on russian gas?
madam president, i would like to thank you. i am convinced that nord stream 2 is not in line with the energy union objectives, our climate ambitions or the eu's objective of diversifying energy producers. so the question is why do we allow this pipeline to be built? the simple answer is that the eu member states do not trust each other in terms of energy supply, and in the absence of that trust we allow russia to play the member states against each other. but the fact is that if the nord stream expansion goes ahead, it will reduce the security of supply in central and eastern europe in particular. it will give russia more power to use energy to push out individual countries. it will increase gazprom's and russia's dominant position, reduce the diversity of suppliers, put ukraine and surrounding countries in a difficult position and destroy climate ambitions. is it not better to try to build up trust between our countries than to allow this project to continue? at a time when security in our region, especially in central and eastern europe, is at its worst for a very long time, it is foolhardy to go ahead with the nord stream 2 plans. i'm just saying, you know? stop the nord stream 2 plans as soon as possible.
author.– madam president, traceability of fish products is a major issue for the committee on fisheries. the new common fisheries policy has very rigorous requirements in terms of marketing and traceability of fish and aquaculture products. the legislator defined both mandatory information and voluntary information for consumers, making information a crucial point of the legislation. compulsory information is the following: the commercial designation of a species and its scientific name, the production method and fishing gear, the area where the product was caught or produced and a clear indication whether the product was defrosted. this mandatory information applies to both retail and supply for caterers and restaurants. it is critical that consumers have access to complete information in order to make an informed choice. restaurants must always keep the information which they received when they bought the product in case consumers or state authorities ask for them. the resolution of the committee on fisheries discusses the commission survey for control of 2015, which analyses the conformity of labelling with the legal requirements of white fish in retail. this sampling survey indicates that the species indicated on the label was correct in 94% of cases. however, numbers are worrying for some species, for which the level of conformity is very low: common species are substituted for more expensive species. this is often the case for bluefin tuna. in a separate study from last year on labelling in restaurants in brussels, including the eu canteens, the ngo oceana estimates mislabelling at 32% overall, with a mislabelling rate in bluefin tuna to be 80%. this observation brings us to ask member states to enforce the existing law. compulsory and correct information must be available for consumers all the way through the chain, including diners in restaurants. it is the duty of member states to guarantee that this information is available and accurate. member states must implement sanctions which are efficient, proportionate and dissuasive. first and foremost, member states have to reinforce controls in order to identify fraud and the missing links in the supply chain for fishery and aquaculture products which lead to mislabelling or fraud. further information on fish can be added to a label as an addition to compulsory information. this information can enable consumers to have complementary information such as the date of catch, date of landing, more information on fishing gear, the flag state, information on the nutritional value of the product or environmental, ethical or social information. unfortunately, voluntary information can sometimes be difficult for consumers to interpret because of its diversity. it is also necessary that such information be reliable, meaning it must be controlled in a very strict manner. the commission is currently working on the implementation of a pilot project proposed by parliament last year – and my regards to our chair, mr cadec, who could not be here today. it deals with voluntary information on fishery products and aims at creating an up—to—date and exhaustive inventory of voluntary claims associated with fishery and aquaculture products, which are marketed in the european union, whatever their origin. this inventory will enable an analysis of the certification systems of these claims. it could help in the creation of an external structure which scrutinises the certification of voluntary claims included on the label of fishery and aquaculture products. we are awaiting this external structure and hope that this information will be easily accessible to consumers. i would also like to remind the commission that parliament is still awaiting the commission report on the possibility to define and establish minimum criteria for the creation of an eu ecolabel for fishery and aquaculture products. the publication of this report is a requirement of the common market organisation for fishery and aquaculture regulation. i would like to finish by asking all member states to strengthen controls, because european consumers have a right to know what ends up on their plate.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the eu-republic of liberia fisheries agreement covers tuna and is for a period of five years. i welcome the agreement because it calls for greater transparency and sectoral support for the liberian fisheries sector, which is an important support for developing the country's own capacity. the hope is that eu support for the development of the fisheries sector can increase scientific estimates of fish stocks, support local inshore fisheries on which the local population depends, and strengthen monitoring and control to combat illegal fishing. in terms of transparency, this agreement is in line with the best agreement to date, which is the signed agreement between mauritania and the eu. one clause states that liberia shall publicly disclose any fishing agreement it signs, both private and public, with foreign fleets fishing in its waters. liberia has also done this exemplarily for several years. we are looking carefully at this example and also want the information published to be both complete and reliable. the agreement with mauritania is a good one in many ways and has become a symbol of the eu's external fisheries policy, where the eu is trying to raise standards and force other fleets from nations such as china, taiwan and russia to adapt to more sustainable conditions. mauritania undertakes to publish all fisheries agreements it signs. the hope is that this will increase transparency in the overall fishing pressure so that we have better management of fishery resources. the agreement does not include octopus, as mauritania has made it clear that this must be used for the needs of its own population. this is very good and should be respected by all foreign fleets fishing in mauritian waters.
mr president, i would like to thank you. there are very sad reports coming in daily from the osce special monitoring force in eastern ukraine. the ceasefire in ukraine is being violated with increasing frequency, which means that violence around the lines of contact has reached alarming levels. in addition, artillery and mortars are used almost daily, which is a clear violation of the minsk agreements, and we eu are just watching. let me be clear: i welcome the agreement reached in the trilateral contact group to implement a ceasefire during the orthodox easter and may holidays, but i think that we three eu institutions, with the commission at the head, must demand more, we must use this opportunity to restore a complete ceasefire. people in eastern parts of ukraine are living in very difficult conditions, a huge humanitarian crisis. the reports that come to us are even difficult to read. we are obliged to do everything we can to push for a permanent ceasefire.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this is a rather heated debate about the fact that from december this year onwards it will be more difficult for us to impose high protective tariffs on china, at least if we are to respect global trade rules. you might think this is something new, but no, it is something we committed ourselves to as early as 2001, 15 years ago. the central question in this debate, which has been raised again, is why the commission has not dealt with this earlier. it is not five past noon, it is five past noon, and we have not yet seen a proposal from the commission on how to deal with this. how will the commission even have time to put a proposal in place if they propose something now? even though we've known about this for 15 years, because we have to accept that the status quo is not an option. if we change the rules, of course those who are currently protected by protective tariffs will have a tougher time. but if we do nothing at all then there will also be consequences. we will then have a very large trade conflict, and it is the commission's responsibility to see that we find a solution. but for 15 years, you've been sitting on your hands, and that's the problem. how will the commission ensure that we both comply with wto rules and avoid a trade conflict with china? how are you going to do this?
in writing. ‒ i and the centre party are in favour of free trade and greater openness from the eu to the rest of the world. however, this must be based on fair market conditions. this report provides for stronger protection against dumped products. product dumping is harmful both to the eu economy and to the smooth functioning of free trade in the world. that is why i voted in favour of the report, which means adopting the position of the advisory group.
‒ i have abstained from voting on the report. it is the first agreement the eu has concluded with liberia and it concerns tuna only. the illegal tuna fishery is a major problem. the west africa regional fisheries program estimates that developing countries lose $10-23 billion annually because of illegal fishing. the agreement is needed to tackle illegal fishing and its purpose, like all eu fisheries agreements, is to exploit seas outside the eu territory to benefit its own fishing industry, including in this case. both labour law and the environment must be taken into account and in this case the report does not meet both requirements. that is why i have decided not to vote on the report.
in writing. - i voted against the report. as in the previous fisheries agreement with mauritania, some problems remain, such as transparency, corruption and lack of consultation with stakeholders. overfishing is a major problem, particularly by foreign boats, and the risk is that the agreement will not contribute to sustainable fisheries despite its intention. both labour law and the environment must be taken into account, and in this case the report does not meet the requirements. that is why i have voted against the report.
in writing. - i have voted against the resolution. the main reason is that the resolution expresses support for so-called structural reforms, which are just a cover for austerity policies. it is this devastating economic policy that has not only caused mass unemployment and poverty in europe, it has also contributed to deepening regional divisions and hampered cohesion. policies have hit women particularly hard and have discouraged gender equality. i am also critical of the way in which the eu's cohesion and regional funds have been marred by fraud and deception throughout history. despite much talk of measures to combat this, the problem has persisted, calling into question the very existence of the funds.
in writing. – i voted against the initiative report on cohesion policy in mountainous regions of the eu (2015/2279(ini)). while i am certainly committed to development in the eu, be it in mountainous areas or in urban areas, the report overlooked the fact that growth is the result of a combination of an innovation-friendly business environment and functioning social policies. no eu-funded programme, agenda or strategy can make up for the lack of competitiveness – a principle which is equally true for mountainous areas as it is true for cities, regions and countries.
for the efdd group. president. - the debate is closed. thank you for the floor, madam president. for the first time ever, a world humanitarian summit is now being held, and the purpose is good but the venue for this is turkey to show, to some extent, i suppose, the ties between the eu and turkey. turkey which does not uphold democracy. turkey which does not uphold human rights. turkey which does not uphold freedom of expression. turkey, which is not even in europe, but in asia. turkey forcing angela merkel to prosecute a comedian. turkey, which a few weeks ago arrested a dutch journalist who was returning home from holiday. the crime was that this journalist wrote critically about president erdogan on twitter a few years ago. i think it is absolutely wrong for the eu to be involved in turkey in any way, since this country actually represents everything that the eu does not. thank you, thank you!
madam president, i would like to thank you. the world humanitarian summit in istanbul comes at a very important time. the question facing the participants how best to use humanitarian aid is more pressing than it has been for a long time. in 2016, an estimated 125 million people in 37 countries are in need of humanitarian assistance. the yazidi christians and other ethno-religious groups in iraq and syria are among the most vulnerable. on the ground in the region recently, i saw the significant efforts being made, but there is no doubt that more can and must be done. in this context, it is important to stress that eu assistance must be more clearly linked to human rights. a warning example is the eu's aid to eritrea, which was extended at the end of last year without any real demands for democratic reforms. here we have a homework to do. i believe that the commission must continue to give priority to european coordination of aid, and always give priority to human rights in this context. thank you, thank you!
madam president, i would like to thank you. trade negotiations and trade policy are a bit like astrology. when the stars are aligned, things happen that were otherwise thought impossible, and i have a feeling that this has been the case with the negotiations with mercosur. because all of a sudden, we've got new momentum in the negotiations, something i thought was almost impossible. almost as soon as they start to give up on the idea of a free trade agreement. and now i think it's important to take advantage of it. i would therefore like to know when the commission intends to respond to the mercosur customs bids in practice, so that we can maintain this momentum. but the moment the negotiations begin to gain momentum, the critics arrive, and they are here. agriculture is the main concern. but it is not that they are particularly interested in damaging agriculture. on the contrary, agriculture is the sector in europe that is most protected from customs duties and therefore the one that is open to negotiation. if any other sector could come close to the protection of customs duties that agriculture enjoys, they would be delighted. they couldn't even dream of it. but the cost of these tariffs, they are not borne by brazilian farmers, they are borne by families with children who buy food, and we should also think about them. thank you, thank you!
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, i would like to congratulate the high representative on her speech, which was full of passion and compassion for the people that are in need of our support. during the last few months we have had a debate in europe on the unprecedented arrivals and migrants on our shores. heads of state have stated that europe, the richest continent on the planet, can no longer cope with the numbers of refugees arriving. let us be clear: we are facing a challenging situation. this is true, but this is mainly because we have completely failed to find a sustainable common european solution. if you were to spread the 1.5 million asylum seekers evenly throughout the member states of the union, it would imply that every city of 10 000 persons would receive 30 asylum seekers. does this merit the crisis narrative? the amount of asylum seekers making their way to europe over the past few years corresponds to not even 0.3% of our population. how about comparing that with the lebanese situation where i, together with some alde colleagues, studied the situation a few weeks ago? lebanon, a country approximately one-third of the size of belgium with 4 million citizens, has received somewhere between 1.2 and 1.8 million refugees from syria, which means that one in every four persons in lebanon is a syrian refugee. this does not merit the crisis rhetoric. we in europe are complaining over and over again that refugees should stay in the neighbouring countries as we sit back. colleagues, mainly on the right wing of this house, are stating over and over again that it is not the same because the unhcr and other ngos will take care of the responsibility for them, but the truth is that the unhcr only has the capacity to help about 15% of the refugees in lebanon. in my view, while we must assist lebanon and jordan, we must first of all sort out our own failed asylum system rather than trying to close immoral deals or statements with increasingly authoritarian governments such as the turkish one.
mr president, i would like to thank you. madam vice president! what is happening in the west bank today is completely unacceptable. people's homes, children's schools, and vital infrastructure are being razed to the ground. several speakers have mentioned this. since january of this year, in just four months, more buildings have been destroyed in the area than in all of 2015. i would urge you to declare that the eu-israel association council will not be convened until israel has stopped this massive destruction. i would urge you to seek compensation. the eu cannot stand by while the israeli authorities pursue a policy of driving people from the area, tearing down, smashing, destroying everything that the eu and its member states have helped to build up through aid. and as mrs vautmans demanded, give us the facts, how much money is involved, so that we know the dimension of the whole thing. it is not enough to condemn in words when international humanitarian law is violated, and then there must also be political and economic consequences. thank you, thank you!
madam president, i would like to thank you. citizens deserve a europe where they can move easily between member states. it is on this free movement that we have built our prosperity, and that is why the reintroduction of border controls is so damaging, both to the economy and to the freedom of citizens. but just as ordinary citizens move across borders, we must recognize and face the consequences of organized crime doing the same. i am glad that parliament has now, thanks to the rapporteur, mr díaz de mera, managed to get a good bit of progress, but much, much more is needed before we can seriously face the threat to our citizens. what we need is a european fbi, with full capacity to combat serious organised crime operationally. only a common european police force could seriously tackle and combat transnational crime syndicates. what we have today is a step in the right direction. there's a lot more to come.
rapporteur.– madam president, allow me to start by thanking the entire team that has worked on this important dossier over a number of years and a special thanks, of course, to my own assistant and to the shadow rapporteurs and their teams, as well as for the excellent work by the secretariat of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) and colleagues in the commission. i have had the pleasure of working together with several very competent presidencies also and here a special word of gratitude needs to be expressed to the luxembourg presidency for their enormous efforts on this dossier, without which i doubt we would be standing here today. competitiveness is all about attracting excellent intellectuals from all over the world to come to the european union and make their contribution in our different member states. the excellent researchers, entrepreneurs and students of the world will help us develop the growing competitive business of tomorrow. in doing so, they will be the ones to bring economic growth, employment and social progress to our economies and societies. for far too long, this continent has crippled itself completely unnecessarily, imposing bureaucracy and hindering creative and productive minds that only want to make their contribution to our societies. let me give you some concrete examples. when we started working on this directive, my home country, sweden, had a system where graduate researchers, doctors, engineers and others who had received a phd from outside europe were given 14 days to basically leave the country once they had completed their studies or their research projects. instead of putting to use the knowledge and experience of these people whom we had helped to educate and had invested a lot of money in, we pushed them away and most of them went to other places in the world – to the us, to canada and to australia – and made their contributions to society there. with the directive we are about to vote on tomorrow, all masters students, as well as researchers, will now have the possibility to stay up to nine months in the eu to apply for jobs or start a business after they have concluded their studies or research. the mobility regime for students will be greatly improved by the new directive. students will be able to move from day one with a simple notification. before, they needed a full application. as for researchers, mobility is also improved with the extension of short-term mobility up to six months, compared with three months before. the minimum time that students are allowed to work will also be increased from 10 hours to 15 hours a week. before the revision of the directive, the entry into the eu of family members of researchers was previously fully discretional upon member states and they had absolutely no right to intra-eu mobility and no right to access the labour market. the present proposals constitute a major step forward by ensuring that family members can easily accompany researchers to europe and they are allowed to work. this is very important for the attractiveness of european universities when they are competing to attract the best minds from all over the world. finally, the scope of the directive will be increased. trainees are now added as a mandatory category and european voluntary service volunteers are added as a mandatory category and au pairs as an optional category. it should be noted that this is actually the first time ever that we have granted protection to au pairs through an eu instrument. before the review, unremunerated trainees were optional, they are now covered. in these days when we talk mostly about migration – internal migration policy – i think it is especially important that we manage to conclude on a major dossier which promotes legal migration to the eu. we need far more of this in the days to come and i hope that we can continue to be ambitious in this regard. thank you once again to everyone that has contributed to this great success.
member of the commission.– mr president, i would like to start by saying that i am really glad that we are finalising the revision of the directive on students and research. today i fulfil also my commitment that i gave you during the hearing one and a half year ago. this updated directive makes the eu more attractive for talents from abroad and, therefore, makes the european union more competitive on the global scale. i would like to express my thanks, in particular, to ms wikström and the shadow rapporteurs, who have done a fantastic job. thanks to your excellent work we have managed to keep a really ambitious text. κυρία wallström ξέρω ότι μιλάτε και ελληνικά και θα ήθελα να σας πω και στην κοινή μας γλώσσα ένα μεγάλο ευχαριστώ! η συμβολή σας ήταν και είναι καθοριστική. the conclusion of the negotiations is important for several reasons. firstly, we have clearly improved the immigration rules for students and researchers. their rights are now more clearly defined. secondly, intra-eu mobility rules have been improved so that knowledge and skills can circulate more freely within the european union. thirdly, students can now work a minimum of 15 instead of 10 hours per week, which means they contribute more to our economy and they can also be financially more independent. with the new instrument, graduates and researchers have a right to look for a job or to set up a business once they have finished their studies or research. finally, we now also have binding eu-wide rules for trainees and volunteers within the european voluntary service. in parallel, for the first time we will also have common rules for third—country national au pairs, though only optionally. let me also underline that the agreement sends out important messages in these challenging times. first of all, we welcome talent from outside of the european union to come to us to study, carry out research, learn or volunteer. those who would like to stay longer to work or to create a business are invited to do so. equally importantly, we show that the eu sticks to its commitments to improve legal migration routes. understandably, a lot of focus is now on the refugee crisis and people seeking protection. but migration is not just about asylum. it is also about mobility and empowerment, and facilitating that through legal channels. this is an important part of our overall migration policy and we deliver, as promised. overall, could we have done better? yes, there is almost always room for improvement. the commission, together with this parliament, has insisted throughout the negotiations that member states’ discretionary powers with regard to rejecting an application may only be used when strictly necessary and, of course, justified. we made it clear in our joint statement to the political compromise that such discretionary power by the member states should only be used on a case-by-case basis. it should take into account the specific circumstances of the third—country national and the principle of proportionality, and on the basis of evidence or serious and objective reasons. i can reiterate that the commission will ensure that member states implement this provision in line with this interpretation when transposing the directive and will inform parliament and the council thereof. today europe attracts 45% of international students worldwide but the international higher education landscape is changing rapidly. such students and researchers are an asset and a contribution and i welcome the agreement on the revised eu rules to facilitate that contribution even more.
on behalf of the ppe group.– mr president, the ppe group also very much welcomes this agreement. europe needs to be attractive in the global competition for talents. we have a knowledge—based economy and facilitating the entry of researchers, students and unremunerated trainees to bring their skills to europe is important to sustain european growth, innovation and jobs. we need to train, develop and keep talents in europe to match the needs of our companies, our academic institutions, our universities and other research institutions. the ppe goal has been to have a system that strikes the right balance between facilitating access and, at the same time, preventing abuse. i am glad that we have reached our goal. with this directive we move from cumbersome, long, fragmented procedures to common, clear and simple rules across europe. we are cutting red tape, we are providing legal certainty. one of the main achievements is the intra—eu mobility, the possibility for students and researchers to continue their activities in another member state without having to leave europe and reapply again for entry. this will, of course, encourage cross—fertilisation, exchange of knowledge, people—to—people contact and also the possibility to finalise research projects or degrees. let us be clear. this directive is not about letting more people into europe. the rules are clear. member states will continue to decide how many entry permits are granted and they will also have the possibility to do labour market checks when deciding on admission. this is not about students and researchers taking european jobs. on the contrary, it is about them contributing to creating jobs in europe. so students and researchers will be given the possibility to work, but the rules of the labour market will remain national. applicants for admission have to clearly show that they are able to support themselves and they are not living on social benefits. i hope that this big achievement will not be undermined by populist rhetoric.
rapporteur.– mr president, we live in a globalised world where competitiveness between countries and continents is increasing. it is all about attracting the most skilled people: intellectuals, entrepreneurs and researchers. the eu must invest in intelligence, and this revised directive provides a lot of added value compared to the current directives. by improving the conditions for students and researchers, we are fostering growth and prosperity in the eu, and this is very much needed. when we talk about migration today, we tend to talk about asylum migration, but asylum is just one part of the migration scheme. legal migration is the second part, and this is one instrument of legal migration that is indeed needed. we need many more in order to strike the right balance between asylum and legal migration. today’s achievement strengthens the academic status of european union universities worldwide, it makes the eu more attractive, and it allows knowledge and excellence to flow more freely. i am proud today of my team in this house. i am happy that this directive is one instrument that will foster growth and prosperity and give us hope for a better future, where entrepreneurs, innovators and researchers will help us to maintain our welfare all over the eu and also to increase and improve it. i am also happy that this is the first step in the right direction. there is much more to do, but we can do it and we can manage together. κύριε επίτροπε, σας ευχαριστώ πάρα πολύ από την καρδιά μου.
‒ the efdd and the enf added to this report an amendment to reject the report, thus rejecting the council's position and ending the procedure for facilitating the entry of third-country nationals into the eu for studies, research, volunteering, pupil exchange and au pairs. the centre party and i are in favour of openness both within and towards the eu, and it is therefore natural to support these possibilities.
‒ the centre party identified cohesion policy as an important part of bringing together and bridging the gap between eu countries and vulnerable regions. this report points to the good things about cohesion policy, but also to what the commission needs to do to ensure that member states are both better supported and make better use of the resources available. the report includes a number of papers on clld, which i see as an important part of integrating civil society into eu cohesion policy.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, i am very happy that we now have two packages of proposals from the commission to tackle the situation with the refugees in a more determined and sustainable way. let us hope that this will put an end to the era of panic—driven negotiations with turkey to outsource our responsibilities to them, and instead focus on creating a robust european asylum system that can earn the respect of european citizens, while providing sanctuary for people fleeing war and persecution. as rapporteur for the dublin regulation, i can assure the commission, member states and this entire house that i, together with my negotiating team, will work in an effective, determined way to conclude in a good agreement. the dublin regulation is the cornerstone of the european asylum system and this is not the time for watered—down deals. this is the time to – once and for all – get it right. out of respect for my team of shadow rapporteurs, i will not set out a specific approach here today. i believe it is important that we in this house work together and come up with a unified view on the regulation and how it should look in the future. in order to do this, i intend to work closely with all groups that are interested in achieving a progressive european solution. the commission proposal is a good point of departure, but i am convinced that we are going to substantially strengthen the proposal in this house. however, i want to make it clear that i do not accept the approach by the commission with regard to the dublin transfer of unaccompanied minors. we have clear jurisprudence from the european court of justice that it is not in the best interest of children to be sent around europe like ping pong balls or suitcases. on this i am convinced that i enjoy the full support of the house and so i am happy to work together with you on this.
mr president, i would like to thank you. since the end of the 1990s, the commission has been trying to push for a common european asylum policy. the aim is said to be to combat illegal immigration and human trafficking by adopting a federalist plan for legal migration. the commission calls its proposal for a harmonised and efficient asylum procedure. i'm surprised at the choice of words. it now proposes further measures to achieve the objectives of its plan. but this involuntary solidarity contribution only means that it is using additional coercive mechanisms to implement its policy. member states that do not want to take in migrants will be fined, and not just small sums: eur 250 000 per refused migrant. asylum should not be a lottery, of course. an asylum seeker has the right to have his case heard, but not at the price of unraveling the conditions for asylum as is happening now. because how many of those who come are actually asylum seekers? and for each so-called asylum seeker, how many relatives do member states have to take in? europe cannot go forward with a common asylum policy, we must first of all control our borders. we must reject those who have no reason to come to europe, and we must learn to deal quickly and effectively with all unfounded applications already at the eu's external borders. we have to stop the terrorist travel. we have to help people on the ground. we must protect the future of europe. thank you, thank you!
mr president, i would like to thank you. when we started the mandate, president juncker said that there would not be a lot of new legislation. then came the terrorist attacks and the massive influx of refugees that changed everything. the result is a confused stream of proposals, all of which have in common the fact that they were rushed through and that there is no impact assessment in principle. we put out fires, but we don't think about how to prevent them, or whether our decisions really solve the problems. it's not enough to change the asylum system. it's not just asylum seekers who risk their lives on the way here. there are many economic migrants and they will continue to come across the sea even on the day when the wars in our neighbourhood have ceased. the only way to reduce the death toll in the mediterranean is to create legal routes for both refugees and other migrants. in my language, that does not mean that you are conducting the barter you speak of. it is about, among other things, humanitarian visas and labour immigration rules for both the highly and the lowly educated, and it is about dealing with the root causes of migration, not just the poor conditions in the refugee camps in turkey.
mr president, i would like to say to the commissioner that the proposal on the reform of dublin is more than welcome. we do have common asylum rules; the problem is that member states are not implementing them fully. it is time for an obligatory emergency mechanism for distribution of asylum seekers. the criteria should also include population and the number of refugees received, including children. when so many are coming at the same time the issue remains how to create the political will for member states to take shared responsibility. i believe more in carrots than sticks and that means: more support for countries facing disproportionate pressure, strengthening frontex, the asylum office, eurodac and the hot spots. but the eu’s assistance should not be a disincentive for member states to build reception capacity. the solidarity pillars should be: resettlement – countries must speed up procedures and increase their quotas; relocation – member states must take asylum seekers from italy and greece, as agreed; and return – we should save all, but we cannot take all in europe. the eu has to negotiate more readmission agreements and fast adopt the list of safe countries of return, including turkey. more humanitarian aid to assist refugees in lebanon and jordan and the eur 3 billion for refugees in turkey are urgent. i conclude by saying that building bridges and dialogue with turkey is crucial in any eu migration policy now, and in the future. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– thank you for the first question. my understanding of the proposal is that the final decision whether to accept a refugee or not still remains with the member states because we have to work in respect of solidarity but based on a mechanism that we have to agree to, which i would call obligatory. the second thing is that secondary movements are not part of this. you cannot choose where to go once you are in europe. in my view, giving international protection does not mean that you can choose which of the 28 member states you can go to.
mr president, i would like to thank you. my colleagues! the eu is entering a dead end, where we are giving up international asylum law and closing the door to people fleeing. it's deadly and dangerous. but it also affects us who are within the eu's borders. we shrink, our humanity is peeled off, we become more and more cruel. all you have to do is listen to what the far-right politics sound like. we must stop accommodating the politics of the far right. you in the commission do what they want at eu level instead of national level. the new dublin proposals do not change that. on the contrary, i fear that they will strengthen fortress europe, and perhaps worst of all is the proposed rule that would force member states to directly deport refugees to countries in the eu's neighbourhood. it is a kind of extension of the shameful agreement with turkey, as my colleague mr keller also pointed out. my colleagues! it is time to take up the fight for a more open europe, or the future will be cruel for all of us.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i think that one aspect of schengen cooperation to which we should pay much more attention is the economic consequences of a breakdown. companies that rely on on-time delivery will run into problems and lose competitiveness. the time delay for everyone commuting to work in another eu country is estimated at between eur 1.3 billion and eur 5.2 billion. the tourism industry is expected to lose around eur 1.2 billion per year, and border controls will require staff, which is expected to cost around eur 6 billion per year. and the taxpayers are gonna have to foot the bill. the result of all this is higher prices for consumers, less competitive companies, smaller margins to employ people and, ultimately, less growth and declining welfare across the eu. reintroducing border controls is perhaps the most effective way in which we can kill our economic prosperity, and i wonder why some politicians are so obsessed with sawing off the branch we all sit on.
mr president, when you read the progress report on turkey, you can get the impression that all is well. has the commission missed completely the fact that the repression of basically everyone opposing erdoğan’s totalitarian regime has increased dramatically? on fundamental rights, the commission concludes (in what i would like to label as the understatement of this century): “further progress is needed on some outstanding requirements”. on migration management, the report does not contain one single hint about inconvenient facts such as the shooting to death of refugees at the borders. once turkey fulfils the conditions that apply to every other country, they should obtain visa-free status. in other words: when the fundamental rights are granted and all the academics, journalists, authors and everyone else that has used the right to freedom of speech are released from prison and everybody freely can also practise free speech in the streets and cities of turkey. clearly we are not there any more. the commission is clear: turkey does not fulfil all the 72 criteria. erdoğan is equally clear when he is stating that turkey does not intend to fulfil the criteria, especially those relating to terrorism legislation. this is the problem, and we should not engage in this completely immoral agreement, or statement, or trade-off or whatever it is called. something is rotten in this as long as we continue.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as a green member, i am always in principle in favour of facilitating free movement across borders. i want to see a world where everyone can legally travel in and out of a country with as few barriers as possible. and that's regardless of whether there are biometric passports and return agreements in place. but the problem i have with the visa waivers for turkey today is that they are linked to what i perceive as a very dirty game of people fleeing war in syria, among other things. turkey is also a country that is becoming increasingly authoritarian, that is shooting at refugees, that is imprisoning journalists under terrorist laws, that is rife with corruption in the highest echelons of power, and that is at war with the kurds. there's a road map with 72 criteria to meet. a few have not been fulfilled, two of them not at all: number 42 on corruption and number 65 on terrorism. the last point, erdoğan has explicitly said he has no intention of fulfilling. that is a very remarkable statement from a man who entered into an agreement with us, knowing full well that all the criteria must be met. it is difficult for me to give erdoğan a victory like that of visa-free travel unless the terrorism criterion is also met, and it is far from being met and will be difficult to meet. but the day i vote 'yes' to visa-free travel for turkey, it will be for the sake of turkish citizens, not to give erdogan some feathers in his hat. it will be for all those journalists, but also for those kurds, who may need to flee turkey in the future. thank you, thank you!
mr president, i call on the conference of presidents to give the green light to the visa liberalisation report for turkey, as we did for other countries. we should not have double standards. the criteria must be fulfilled without shortcuts, but no strict interpretation either. we have granted visa freedom to 55 countries – including brunei, united arab emirates, venezuela, columbia – without objections on fundamental rights. we need to find a solution, common ground on the terror law and to stop bashing constructive dialogue, that is what we need. visa freedom for turkey is not new nor fast. the eu agreed to start visa dialogue with turkey in 2013. in exchange for the readmission agreement let us stick to our commitments. visa freedom is for the people to promote people to people contact – a driving force for reforms. by delaying visas we undermine the democratic forces in turkey and we punish the people not the establishment. when i was shadow rapporteur for bosnia and the western balkans, that was what the united left and the greens were saying: political criteria, not a mathematic roadmap. why is it different for turkey? (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, i am on the side of the interests of the european union and of this parliament. we have taken a commitment, and at the moment we are not sticking to our commitment. the roadmap for visa liberalisation is clear: their standards and their criteria should be the same for all the 55 countries. why are we putting extra criteria for turkey? why do we not even have a report on the table when it is not any other country? we did not have a report on the table when the criteria were not fulfilled, and as the commissioner very rightly said, there is exceptional progress going on. even with the five issues – if i am not wrong – that are still pending, progress is happening. why are you all just bashing and dashing turkey, which is a key partner for the european union? we need to work with them, to have a dialogue, to have a constructive cooperation for the common interest. i am not taking sides. it is the wrong approach.
mr president, my thanks to the commissioner and to the rapporteur. when i listen to this debate it sounds like nearly no taxes are paid in europe, but companies do pay taxes; small and big companies pay taxes. income takers and employees pay taxes. it is said that we have the highest tax load in the world. in europe we pay 10 to 15% higher taxes than any other region in the world, which is of course a problem for us regarding investment in the european economy. so we need to fight those who do not. we need to fight tax fraud and illegal tax avoidance; not make it more difficult to run companies in europe. that is why it is so important to stick to international cooperation, and international cooperation between national authorities requires that we have international standards, and we in europe go beyond that. then we are creating problems for honest industries and companies but we are also creating grey zones and loopholes and incentives to make tax avoidance. so, commissioner, let us stick to international standards and international cooperation, then we will get fair taxes in europe.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. now we are here again, and we are forced to acknowledge that the gaps in the eu are widening both between countries and between people. last year, unemployment rates in the member states ranged from around 5% to more than 25%. the fact that the increase in unemployment is often met by unilateral austerity measures and cuts in welfare has further aggravated the situation. jobs have also become more precarious and temporary. high unemployment and deteriorating social conditions are also eroding faith in the ability of politics to change society. extremism is on the rise, and that's worrying. so more people must have the chance to enter the labour market. more people need to have the chance to get an education. and equal pay for equal work is a given. it is actually already a treaty right, and it should be something that was already in place. the commission, and in particular president juncker, is now being given a yellow card in this respect as regards the continuation of work on the posting directive. of course, this must not delay or alter the work on this core directive. this is what matters so much to everything else we're talking about. it is essential if we are to regain a functioning labour market and thereby reduce disparities. at the same time, the european youth guarantee must be strengthened. women must be given the conditions of life that allow them to be on the labour market just like everyone else. and, we need to empower, not cut, welfare. the economic crisis has shown that countries where the labour market and wage formation were attacked during the economic crisis have a harder time than others to recover from it. please read the latest eurofound report on this, and then get to work and make sure that we actually get something important done. thank you, thank you!
mr president, i share the idea that the consumers have the right to know where foods come from, but, at the same time, i firmly believe that we should address this issue in a balanced way. two reports of the commission concluded that the cost of mandatory labelling would be extremely high. costs could rise by 45% for some milk and dairy producers, and smes would be unfairly hit by the additional administrative burden. i do not think consumers are willing to pay for it. the most important concerns for them are quality and security, and the eu already has the highest standards for its citizens. the commission already allows for voluntary labelling for anyone who wants to use it. if we make it mandatory, we risk falling down in protectionism, since everybody could claim indication, for example, small towns, regions, etc. we need a balanced way, taking into account consumer needs, without affecting small businesses negatively and raising consumer prices.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. since the european commission presented its energy union strategy in february 2015, the aim has been to ensure that everyone in europe has access to safe, green, sustainable and competitive energy. hydropower has a particularly important role to play in meeting the energy union objectives, as 16% of the energy produced in the eu in 2013 came from hydropower. in 2006, it was only 10%. however, the eu's growing energy needs cannot be met by better regulation of existing resources alone. we also need to look at how we can use unused hydro-energy resources. there is enormous potential in the balkans for hydropower, for example in bosnia, serbia, croatia and albania. that potential is far from being fully exploited. in bosnia, only 37% of that energy is estimated to be used today. in albania, it is 35%. so, mr president, let me be clear and repeat: it is not just by linking up and better regulating existing resources, but we must also look at our neighbourhood to achieve the objectives of the energy union. at the heart of the eu cooperation we have established over the past 70 years is the idea that we are stronger when we do things together. this also needs to be done in the field of hydro-energy and energy supply. thank you, thank you!
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? women's access to the labour market in europe is limited. women work more, with lower pay and pension. men, in turn, are not allowed to spend as much time with their children as they would like. women have more part-time jobs than men and are overrepresented in the public sector, and at the same time we know what the situation is with wages. the gender pay gap for the same job is 16%, and the pension gap between men and women is almost 40%. and only 10% of fathers today take more than one day of parental leave, where it exists. we can't have it like this. we are supposed to be, or at least imagine, a modern europe. but the proposal we are discussing today can provide a framework for development in which both parents can be present in the lives of their children and women have equal opportunities and conditions in the labour market. the labour market simply cannot be a place where gender and old gender patterns determine one's value and presence. in conclusion, i would like to thank maria arena for a very wise proposal for a framework that will move progress in the right direction without holding back member states that have already made progress. thank you very much.
the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has tabled an opinion. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. in my previous job, i worked on combating trafficking in women. i worked with women's shelters, police officers, prosecutors, and survivors of prostitution. i have tried to translate some of what i learned from them into the text of the european parliament on which we are going to vote today. i'll highlight the most important parts. the first is that we need to have different strategies for different forms of trafficking. in europe, the most common form of trafficking is for sexual exploitation, although there is, of course, trafficking for labour exploitation, which is also dealt with in this report. we need to have a gender perspective. the majority of those affected are women and girls. we must strengthen the rights of the vulnerable, as miss bearder has said. they should have all the support, and they should also have the right to residence permits. colleagues, we must follow the money and fight those who profit from trade. we have to fight the demand. that is the key to the work, and this report clearly highlights it. now, speaking of demand, i'd like to say a few words about demand in the sex industry. this house needs to step up and say that the exploitation of women and girls, boys and men in the prostitution industry is not okay. most people get into this when they're kids, and it's not okay, even if they do grow up. instead of punishing those who are exploited and those who are exploited, it is time to put the responsibility where it belongs. it means we're going after pimps, brothel keepers, and sex buyers, johns, or codfish, as we say in swedish. i know it's radical in this house to dare suggest that men should not have the right to purchase access to women's bodies. but we're not living in the 19th century anymore. it's 2016 it's time to take a stand for a more progressive view of sexuality and the relationship between women and men. it is a matter of standing up for human rights, for feminism and for equality. decriminalizing those who are exploited, and instead criminalizing those who exploit, both sex buyers and pimps, is also an effective way to combat demand. if you take away demand, there's no human trafficking. it is a step in the right direction that this report seeks to criminalise those who buy services from victims of trafficking in human beings, but we can go further next time. thank you for working together!
member of the commission. – mr president, firstly i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs bearder. i am committed to ensure that we will continue to stress the gender dimension of trafficking and ensure a victim-centred approach. with the same proactive manner we will continue to ensure that european union law and standards related to anti-trafficking efforts are properly transposed. out of the 27 concerned member states, 26 have communicated to the commission full transposition of the anti-trafficking directive. the one remaining, germany, has informed us about a political agreement reached and we are expecting information on the transposition soon. our services are currently in the process of analysing the information officially notified by the member states, with the help of a compliance study. the report on the extent to which the member states comply with the directive is foreseen to be presented by the commission in the fourth quarter of 2016. the commission has been particularly pro-active in monitoring the transposition: only one month after the transposition deadline in may 2013, the commission had opened 13 infringements based on non-communication. in november of the same year the commission had sent four reasoned opinions as part of infringement proceedings for non-communication - to spain, luxembourg, italy and cyprus. this demonstrates the commitment of the commission not to hesitate in taking actions for ensuring implementation of eu law. the commission will soon present the first report assessing the progress made in fighting trafficking in human beings. with this report we identify areas of progress and achievement, but also expose gaps and efforts that are still to be made. clearly, the eu has delivered but still a lot remains to be done. our message should be clear: we cannot allow people, human beings, to be treated like commodities. we must work together to ensure we prevent the crime from happening because then it is too late. we must crack down on trafficking where it matters for traffickers the most, on their profits. at the same time, we must ensure that we also crack down on the demand for services and cheap labour that fosters all forms of exploitation. here we all have a role to play; we must ensure we do not foster a culture of impunity for those who exploit and use the victims. we must ensure that the victims are not treated like the criminals. to do this, we must do it together and i count on this parliament to continue working in this direction. this year is a turning point and there is only one way: the way forward.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, trafficking in human beings is the new slavery of our times. the figures are stunning, and the stories are heartbreaking: behind every story, there is a human tragedy. it is time to stop impunity. there should be no hiding place in europe for traffickers. the majority of victims are women and girls to be exploited for prostitution in europe. more and more are migrants. trafficking is a serious organised crime and should be prosecuted as such. it is a huge business with high profits and too low a risk. the networks are sophisticated and cross-border. we should step up our common european response on all fronts: police and judicial cooperation, better sharing of information, strengthening europol, eurojust, frontex and the hot spots, and tracking the money and confiscating the assets of the traffickers. and, of course, member states should do more to prevent and combat trafficking and protect the victims, including on the internet, by increasing sanctions, training officials and giving victims access to healthcare, including sexual and reproductive rights assistance and psychological support, paying particular attention to the most vulnerable, such as children. it is also very important to reduce demand and to criminalise the users of sex services. the ppe group will continue to be committed to zero tolerance against trafficking in human beings and will keep women’s and girls’ rights at the top of our agenda. it really is time for them to be freed.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution. but i would like to stress the importance of china ratifying the ilo's founding conventions. the recognition of the right to organise in a trade union should be one of the basic requirements of the eu towards china for further progress in the negotiations. in this context, it is also of great importance that china is working on climate change adaptation in the steel industry to reduce energy consumption and co2 emissions. with these two clarifications, i have decided to vote in favour of the resolution.
in writing. there is still much uncertainty about how the eu will act when the derogation in china's wto accession protocol expires later this year. it is up to the commission in its impact assessment to present convincing options for how to protect european industry while avoiding a trade war with china. we swedish social democrats believe that we can only take a position on this matter after we have seen the commission's analysis and proposals for measures. we therefore chose to abstain.
‒ today the european parliament voted on a report calling for an evaluation of the framework agreement on parental leave between the eu and the social partners. the creation of conditions for being able to be at home with their children during the first years of life is an important issue for the christian democrats, but it does not belong at eu level. unfortunately, the report proposes problematic top-down solutions on how to achieve equal parental leave. the eu rules on the quotaing of paternity leave, the extension of the minimum length of parental leave in the union and the restriction of the right to transfer leave between parents are among the requirements. the commission is also proposing to review all the directives on family-related leave, building on the repealed maternity leave directive. the eu needs to concentrate on its core tasks that parliament continues to demand that the eu be given more family policy powers is fundamentally provocative. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ same-sex parents should have the same rights as everyone else across the eu. for us moderates it is obvious that the forms of parental leave are something that member states themselves decide. it is not because we coordinate parental leave in the eu that it will get better. that is why we voted against the resolution on parental leave. we do not want to have parental leave legislation that is a compromise with the rest of europe. if we decide this in the eu, we risk a situation where swedish parental leave is decided at european level and not in the respective country and in the family. it's not up to politics to govern the daily lives of families and decide which parent should be at home. the needs of each family are different, and that's a decision that people make best on their own. it goes without saying that this should apply to all parent constellations.
‒ today the european parliament voted on an own-initiative report on the issue of trafficking in human beings. crossborder cooperation in this area is urgent and important. that is why i voted in favour of the report. since the issue of prostitution legislation is also dealt with in the report, i would like to emphasize in this context that the swedish legislation is in many respects an example from which more countries should learn. however, this type of criminal law should remain a matter of national competence.
blue-card question. – i heard your intervention hailing russian protectionism and the russian economy. as we all know, the russian economy is declining, because it lacks inspiration and competition. there is a lack of rule of law. would you like to tell us how you look upon the development of welfare and prosperity in russia, which i understand is a model for you? please come up and tell us about the protectionist, lawless, rude and capitalist robber market that we see in russia! tell us about it and tell us about the prosperity for russians. it has declined year after year – and that’s your model? that’s a shame.
madam president, regarding geo-blocking it is important to get rid of unjustified geo-blocking, but it is just as important to get rid of the reasons for justified geo-blocking. different sales law, different vat regimes, different consumer legislation, different copyright legislation: here is the big challenge. and that leads me to the second point: i do not believe in quotas restricting the supply of different sorts of entertainment in the global era. i do not think european culture and entertainment will develop because of quotas. it is much better to open up the opportunities for global champions emerging in europe than to worry about global champions coming from other parts and competing here. third, the new legislation we need is not to regulate the past or to freeze the present, it is to open up for the future and all its opportunities. platforms are a phenomenon that will change all the time. they need to adapt to the rules of the legislation we have, but do not try to legislate them in a way that hinders innovation. we will see new platforms coming every year, every decade and we need to secure that we can be in the lead.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. thank you, commissioner, for your message today and for your statement in the run-up to the june meeting. i'm glad you did. i am also pleased to have the opportunity to speak about the scientific criteria for endocrine disrupting substances. but i want to remind you of the history we have. this is one of the more striking cases of deliberate disregard for eu law and its disregard for other interests. the commission has for more than two years completely ignored the presentation of scientific criteria, although it has been obliged to present the same since december 2013. we must have these criteria. they are essential to our continuing work to phase out harmful chemicals. i'll be clear in case the message hasn't gotten through. it is unacceptable to ignore obligations imposed on the commission by eu law. the citizens of the eu, the european parliament, the eu countries and the court of justice of the eu expect the commission to respect its duty under the eu treaty to promote the health of its citizens, and this is no trivial matter. hormone disruptors are all around us. they're in food packaging, in our children's toys, in our clothes, in our drinking water, and they're linked to a whole range of diseases. diabetes, various cancers, and fertility problems, and it is especially ominous that young children and fetuses are especially sensitive to these chemicals, the effects of which may become apparent much later in life. it is therefore welcome that the commission has now indicated that it will finally discuss the scientific criteria in the college in mid-june. the commission can be sure that many of us will be following that meeting closely, and i would urge the commission to take account of the european parliament's previous positions on the criteria. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'protection' in the definition of the term 'protection'. such a delimitation would unduly restrict the definition of endocrine disrupting substances and render it scientifically deficient and therefore incompatible with the classification of carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic to reproduction substances. the fact that potency is not allowed to be a guiding factor in the criteria is a key issue, not only for us in the s&d group and the european parliament but also for many member states. i would therefore like to emphasize once again very clearly to the commission that we will not accept any such model. the commission has also analysed the impact of the measures on the union industry. then the possibilities were highlighted with an alternative without potency as a criterion. i would urge the commission to follow that roadmap. at the same time, i am now hopeful that there are good grounds for the commission to do the right thing and to present these criteria which provide the highest possible protection for human health.
mr president, according to surveys, 50 million eu citizens were unable to keep their homes adequately warm in 2012, with similar numbers reported making late payments, overpaying etc. those consumers are all over the eu and, as a liberal, my conviction is that european challenges need common european answers. therefore, i support the commission and the rapporteur to entrust coordination to an eu level to combat energy poverty. three measures seem to be essential: the coordinated definition of energy poverty is needed, however you weight it in different countries; member states need to develop measures to specially target energy—poor citizens, especially by removing the fee for switching suppliers; and better information on prices and transferred billings. these are found in the eu member states with the most liberal energy markets. consequently, i believe that the liberalisation of the energy market and the fight against energy poverty go hand in hand.
madam president, the end of the milk quota system, the russian embargo and the falling demand for dairy products introduced a new scenario. producers have, rightly, concerns since the milk and milk products market is going through a very difficult period. the european commission remains vigilant in its response to crisis, however its short—term measures such as public intervention, private storage and temporary state aid, are insufficient. i firmly believe that ambitious revision to address long-term structural problems on the milk sector, as well as other agriculture sectors, are the only way to correct our internal market failures. production should be based on single markets which require at the same time to be more efficient, more innovative, better organised and more competitive. in this sense, i also believe that new markets can be conquered with products with high added value.
in writing. ‒ we believe that prosperity is created through free trade and fair competition. we therefore oppose the european globalisation adjustment fund on principle, which we regard as an expression of protectionism. we have accepted in the past that the fund was used as a purely emergency measure in a time of deep economic crisis, as a way of countering people's sense of hopelessness and the exclusion that follows in the wake of the crisis and that risks further reinforcing the wave of nationalism and xenophobia spreading in europe. however, in the light of the swedish national audit office's analysis, which suggests that the fund does indeed have a negative impact on returning to work, we believe that the fund has lost its legitimacy and should not be used any more.
‒ today we voted on financial aid from the so-called globalisation fund to people who have become unemployed after european companies have closed down. i am consistently voting no to these unemployment benefits for two reasons: first, labour market policies and financial support for the unemployed should be decided on, and financed, at national level not at eu level. secondly, the fund's basic idea is that globalisation is something negative - which is not true. globalization and free trade lead to growth and peace.
in writing. ‒ we believe that prosperity is created through free trade and fair competition. we therefore oppose the european globalisation adjustment fund on principle, which we regard as an expression of protectionism. we have accepted in the past that the fund was used as a purely emergency measure in a time of deep economic crisis, as a way of countering people's sense of hopelessness and the exclusion that follows in the wake of the crisis and that risks further reinforcing the wave of nationalism and xenophobia spreading in europe. however, in the light of the swedish national audit office's analysis, which suggests that the fund does indeed have a negative impact on returning to work, we believe that the fund has lost its legitimacy and should not be used any more.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am very pleased that parliament has voted, by a large majority, to support sweden in its reception of refugees by granting a temporary one-year pause to resettlement programmes from greece and italy. as the leader of the epp group, i have fought to show that sweden too is under disproportionate pressure and has become the first country of reception and also the country of final destination. what our municipalities and our migration agency are showing and saying is that this is an emergency, and then it's just a temporary pause to be able to create a functional, long-term and sustainable possibility to continue to receive refugees in a dignified way, in a humane way. sweden should continue to be a country that receives refugees. sweden should continue to be a safe haven for people in need of support, but it is time that other countries also share the responsibility. it is time for other countries to fully implement the relocation programme. all 28 of them.
in the vote today, we took a position on whether sweden should be granted a derogation from taking in its share of refugees to be redistributed to sweden from italy and greece. we voted against it for two main reasons. sweden has been one of the eu countries that has been pushing for a binding, solidarity-based and fair distribution system and for the creation of the temporary relocation mechanism for 160,000 refugees. the principle itself is based on the fact that the mechanism is binding and that everyone receives his share. member states have two years to implement this redistribution. sweden's request for a one-year derogation in this situation undermines our credibility in the continuing work to agree on a truly solidarity-based asylum policy. since the introduction of id checks, the number of refugees coming to sweden has decreased drastically, which makes it easier to accept refugees now. in the light of the deteriorating situation of asylum seekers in greece, we do not believe that there is any reason to grant any member state a derogation at this time. instead, the focus must be on getting all member states to fulfil their obligation to participate in the relocation scheme. we hope that sweden will continue to lead the way towards a fair asylum policy.
in writing. ‒ the refugee crisis we have seen is partly a consequence of our failure to take a common responsibility in europe. for me and the centre party, it is important that asylum seekers are distributed more evenly in europe and that all countries take a proportionate responsibility. sweden took in 163,000 asylum seekers in 2015, while other countries avoided taking responsibility. we therefore decided to support the commission's proposal and to vote against the amendments which were not adopted, as we believe that a fair distribution of resources is needed in europe.
in the vote today, we took a position on whether sweden should be granted a derogation from taking in its share of refugees to be redistributed to sweden from italy and greece. we voted against it for two main reasons. sweden has been one of the eu countries that has been pushing for a binding, solidarity-based and fair distribution system and for the creation of the temporary relocation mechanism for 160,000 refugees. the principle itself is based on the fact that the mechanism is binding and that everyone receives his share. member states have two years to implement this redistribution. sweden's request for a one-year derogation in this situation undermines our credibility in the continuing work to agree on a truly solidarity-based asylum policy. since the introduction of id checks, the number of refugees coming to sweden has decreased drastically, which makes it easier to accept refugees now. in the light of the deteriorating situation of asylum seekers in greece, we do not believe that there is any reason to grant any member state a derogation at this time. instead, the focus must be on getting all member states to fulfil their obligation to participate in the relocation scheme. we hope that sweden will continue to lead the way towards a fair asylum policy.
in writing. ‒ the ongoing energy transition is moving away from an energy system based on traditional centralised power generation towards a more decentralised, energy efficient and flexible energy system based largely on renewable energy. in this transition, it is becoming increasingly important to empower energy consumers and i welcome the report in these areas as the eu has an important role to play here. unfortunately, however, the report contains a lot of information on energy poverty, which does not belong at eu level, since this is social policy that the eu should not be involved in, and i therefore voted against those parts.
in writing. we social democrats have voted in favour of the report on a new gift for energy consumers. we have abstained on a ban on home selling because we believe that global measures rather than individual bans are needed to tackle the consumer problems of home selling. we also voted on a paper on working towards targeted electricity discounts for certain groups. we are convinced that active action will be required to combat energy poverty. discounts to different groups may be one way, and where energy companies choose to give such a discount we are of course not against it. however, we believe that there are more long-term sustainable measures than electricity discounts, such as an active distribution policy and targeted energy efficiency initiatives, etc., to reduce the energy costs of vulnerable groups. we therefore do not want to confine ourselves to this particular measure.
‒ on the report on a new gift for energy consumers, we voted against the demand that energy poverty be tackled at european level. energy poverty needs to be addressed, but it should be done within the social safety net of each member state and is the responsibility of each member state. better prices and conditions for consumers require market opening, the phase-out of subsidies and a balance between supply and demand. it should be the focus of the construction of the european energy union.
‒ today the european parliament voted on an own-initiative report by the committee on gender equality on women's poverty in europe. it is important to highlight poverty from a gender perspective, as women are over-represented among europeans still living in material poverty, although it is important to emphasise that progress has been made in the right direction. unfortunately, the present report proposes incorrect and destructive solutions, both in substance and from the point of view of subsidiarity. the report calls for minimum wages, the enforcement of the now-repealed maternity leave directive and the eu budget to be increased to directly subsidize various activities deemed to be in favour of equality. the report also contains a general and general criticism of the market economy. i therefore chose to vote no.
in writing. ‒ this report is about poor women in the eu. the subject is very important and i have voted in several rounds in favour of reports and legislative proposals aimed at strengthening the position of vulnerable women. however, there were some points in this report which i found very problematic and which were also voted on in plenary. i therefore had no opportunity to vote in favour of the report as a whole. this was particularly the case with letters rejecting the eu's austerity policy and calling on the commission to reinstate the maternity leave directive and legislate on european parental leave. the first i do not agree with and the second i think are definitely not issues to be pursued at eu level. i am in favour of very generous parental leave and have pushed these issues hard in sweden, but it is opening up a development that i do not want to see to start legislating on this kind of issues at eu level.
in writing. - i voted no. non-tariff barriers to trade in the internal market can be understood in many ways. there are unnecessary administrative rules and bureaucratic procedures in several countries which make trade difficult; of course, such obstacles must be overcome. however, i have always been in favour of the right of countries to develop environmental and consumer laws to better protect people, nature and animals. it should not be seen as a barrier to trade, but as a political example. it should also be clear that the labour law and collective agreements of a country should never be called into question by virtue of the rules of the internal market. but unfortunately, the eu's prioritization of trade within the single market has had negative consequences in several countries for the environment, consumers and animal rights, as well as for labour law and collective agreements. the report is not clear enough on issues such as these, which is why i am voting against.
‒ a report responding to the commission's strategy for developing the internal market. a developed and better functioning internal market is a key factor in the recovery of europe's economies, and the report contains many important points. i have voted in favour of the report as a whole. parts of the report highlight a general requirement for 'made in' for industrial products. i believe that this would disrupt the functioning of the internal market too much and i have therefore voted against these points.
in writing. we swedish social democrats voted today in favour of the own-initiative report on the 'single market strategy'. it is important that the european parliament signals to the commission our priorities in the internal market, which is an essential part of our cooperation for, among other things, job creation. since the internal market must be accompanied by effective protection for consumers, workers and the environment, we chose to vote against a few points where we consider the texts to be contrary to our values. we believe that the member states should of course continue to be able to legislate on the protection of consumers, workers and the environment without this being considered an unjustified obstacle to the internal market. we also voted against the proposals which oppose municipal self-government in terms of urban planning. the swedish social democratic delegation voted in favour of several of the good papers which highlighted the importance of strengthening consumer protection, workers' rights and environmental requirements. we also fully support the papers which highlight the potential of the social economy to create sustainable and secure jobs within the eu's internal market. we were therefore able to support the report in the final vote, as there were enough good papers and balanced the text.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the social stigma and sometimes even legal discrimination faced by people living with hiv in health care, workplaces and education is still widespread and causes great psychological suffering for many. discriminatory laws and policies on people living with hiv must end and adequate information on hiv must reach the wider community. hiv prevention is a shared responsibility and should be addressed to all groups in society. the biggest risk to the spread of hiv is precisely the stigma that leads many to not find out the information or dare to seek treatment. in the fight against and prevention of hiv, therefore, human rights need to be at the centre and serious efforts should be made to combat stigma and discrimination against people living with hiv. last year, who recorded the highest number of new hiv infections in europe since the 1980s: 142,000. in the eu, about two million are infected. in the eu, we need politicians at national and local level to take the fight against hiv. we need more investment in health care, more money for prevention, more needle exchange programmes and, of course, more aid to third countries.
mr president, i would like to thank you. belarus' first two nuclear power plants are being built right now, and these reactors are being built with the support of russia, the russian company, even though they will be building the nuclear power plant in its entirety. in addition, russia will invest the equivalent of sek 1,5 billion in the first stage of the construction of the plant. all this comes at a time when belarus is already very dependent on russia. 90% of belarus' energy imports come from a single importer, namely russia. once again, we see russia trying to use energy as a weapon to influence other countries in the direction that suits the kremlin. this has happened before in armenia, kyrgyzstan, kazakhstan, estonia, latvia, lithuania, poland, ukraine, georgia and it will happen again tomorrow in belarus. the european parliament must therefore examine this project. firstly, because the project obviously has a huge environmental impact on other countries, and secondly, because the project is not in line with the eu's objective of diversifying europe's energy sources. the commission must stop pretending to be nothing and consider the geostrategic implications of such a project.
madam president, we need efficient tools to deal with imbalances in the food sector in order to ensure fairness, transparency and trust. the supply chain initiative is a good process. it is gaining ground. now we need to show concrete results on impartial governance, confidential claims and sanctions. it is about creating a culture of compliance in the member states. and the solution is enforcing rules, such as the late payment directive, rather than creating new rules which could burden smes even more. competition law is a key, in food retail as elsewhere, to ensuring a level playing field. the commission has been clear that, on the basis of independent study and years of work together with us, eu legislation unfortunately does not solve the problem. colleagues, i call on you to vote against eu legislation on unfair trading practices. let us not give our dear farmers, smes and consumers, who have legitimate concerns, the illusion of a quick fix from brussels.
madam president, innovation remains a key priority for meeting the biggest challenges faced by farming today. in the context of climate change, rising food demand, population growth and threats to the environment, we really need to support agricultural innovation in order to increase the productivity and sustainability of the sector. in other words, farmers will need to produce more with less in the future. however, adoption of the new agricultural technologies by european farms has been modest until now. the challenge before us, commissioner, is therefore to support the transfer of knowledge from researchers to farmers and to make use of innovative techniques by updating the relevant legislation, as well as the creation of new financing opportunities for farmers. most of the farms of today have little in common with the farms of the 1950s and, if we get it right, the farms of 2050 will probably differ significantly from the farms of today.
madam president, the two countries in which modern slavery is most widespread today are uzbekistan and pakistan. these are two countries with which the eu has close relations. moreover, the report of the international labour organization stated the crucial importance for the authorities of uzbekistan to continue with measures to keep children away from the cotton harvest, as child labour in cotton harvesting has been widely used before. the eu parliament has constantly condemned the systematic violation of labour rights in uzbekistan and pakistan. the commission and the member states have looked away even though forced labour, both adults and children, is a common practice in both countries. the commission should firmly and resolutely address such cases of human rights violations in these countries and step up the fight against forced labour in central asia.
madam president, in the european union the tax load is 10% to 15% higher than in any other competing region in the world. this means that there is no other place in the world where companies and employees are paying as much tax as here. let us not forget that when we talk about these issues. this is not – and must not be – about fighting european business and european companies. it must not be about increasing taxes. it must be about addressing those who are bending the rules and those who are breaking the rules. it must be very clear there is a responsibility for national authorities, in cooperation with each other, to minimise all of these things that are undermining taxation. but it must also lead to the fact that we stay within the oecd rules because, if we go beyond them, we are creating a disadvantage for european industry and are also creating new loopholes and new grey zones for those who would like to misuse the different systems. so we need to ensure that investments can come to europe and we need to have a stable legislation and responsibility for national authorities.
mr president, i would like to thank you. tax evasion and aggressive tax planning arouse the emotions of citizens because they undermine the common good to which everyone contributes. of course, this also has a negative impact on the internal market and we must now ensure that business, for both large and small players, can take place on equal terms throughout the eu. critical scrutiny is essential for a functioning democracy and citizens must be informed, because then they can also demand that we make available political decisions that will make scandals such as the 'luxleaks' and the 'panama papers' effectively impossible in the future. the citizens expect this from us. public and critical scrutiny is good, also in relation to national tax systems. i can agree with the rapporteur and regret that the commission has not yet put forward a legislative proposal on the consolidated corporate tax base, because this proposal has the support of business people and would simplify the tax system in the internal market and ensure that we create a clearer common playing field for all actors throughout the eu. and we need that.
in writing. - i voted yes to the report. i am doing this only because it is a logical consequence of croatia's accession to the eu, which means that it will also join the eu's existing trade agreements. however, i do not think that the eu-colombia/peru trade agreement is a good agreement, which is a view that i share with many trade union and popular movements in colombia. my party voted against the agreement when it was discussed in the european parliament. however, this vote is not about the agreement itself, but about the consequences of croatia's accession to the eu. that's the only reason i voted yes.
‒ today the european parliament voted on a report on the need for a coherent policy for international development cooperation. evaluating and optimising policy tools to create a well-thought-out and consistent policy is important. this is being handled very well and in the final vote i voted for the report. at the same time, i consider that certain sections of the report are problematic, which i have highlighted in separate votes. this is particularly the case with the proposal to introduce transaction taxes to finance development.
‒ this report highlights the importance of all eu policies contributing to the achievement of the union's development policy objectives and to the achievement of the international sustainable development goals. unfortunately, the report highlights things which, in my view, should not be seen as a problem for international development. i think it is wrong that the report highlights free trade as a problem for poverty reduction and highlights, for example, an international tax on financial transactions as a positive alternative. i voted against those negative aspects.
‒ this report highlights the importance of investment and development in farming in the context of international development work. it must also be directed at smes and help to strengthen entrepreneurship. unfortunately, the report also contains anti-free trade language and affirms that protectionist measures should be allowed. unfortunately, it also contains writings which are sceptical and in some respects hostile to new agricultural technologies. i voted against such writings as far as possible.
in writing. ‒ today we are voting on the new alliance for food and nutrition security in sub-saharan africa. millions of people are still hungry in southern africa, and malnutrition is a contributing cause of more than half of all child deaths worldwide. it's something we have to take very seriously. that is why the new initiative to reduce hunger based on the asian model is often called the 'green revolution'. we cannot support the criticism of the european parliament of the initiative or the demand that the whole of southern africa should become a test-bed for the small-scale, non-mechanized, organic and gmo-free farming that the green party usually advocates in sweden. it risks starving millions of people unnecessarily. those who now want to deny african agriculture modern technology and modern methods are also responsible for the hunger and misery that such a policy will inevitably cement millions of poor people into. that is why we are voting against the report.
‒ i chose to vote against some controversial points, not least because of my conviction that trade creates prosperity and that the removal of trade barriers is therefore a good thing. as regards the other points, i agree with the report and therefore voted in favour.
in writing. – the greens/efa group support many of the issues raised in the van orden report: the need to increase member states’ contributions to un peacekeeping and the clear language on the issue of sexual exploitation and abuses by personnel in peacekeeping. however, the greens/efa group opted for abstention at the final vote since because of the language we oppose paragraph 15, which states that ‘oda needs to be redesigned under the oecd framework through peacebuilding lenses’ and that the edf regulation ‘should be reviewed in order to allow programming design that includes peace, security and justice expenditures that have development-related motivation’. we believe that current development aid already allows good governance projects in the security sector and there are dedicated eu instruments for security sector reform and that such a change would limit the impact of development aid. the last sentence of paragraph 20 calls for a legal base for transferring military equipment to third countries financed by the eu budget. we believe that this is illegal as article 41(2) clearly states that expenditure arising from military or defence operations (e.g. military training missions) cannot be charged to the eu budget. paragraph 21 supports the council position favouring eu budget financing of military equipment for third states.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i am convinced that we need legislation to restore balance and guarantee fairness and transparency in the food chain. it is therefore important to increase the bargaining power of farmers by improving producer organisation and cooperation throughout the food chain.
in writing. ‒ i share the view expressed in this report that we must increase agricultural productivity in a sustainable way. this requires more extensive cooperation between scientists and farmers, and stronger and more successful transfer of knowledge to end-users. this also requires a more innovation-friendly eu regulatory framework.
mr president, i support the parliament’s call for modernising european agriculture. it is the best way to gain competitiveness on global markets. i also welcome that we have put food waste back on parliament’s agenda. efficient farming is important to feed an ever—growing population in the world, but it is also important to use what we produce. 100 million tons of food is lost in the eu every year and food waste is economically, sustainably and ethically unacceptable. my campaign ‘basta to food waste’ has highlighted that it is high time to step up our action over decades. we need to take the lead as opinion builders and work with all parts of the food chain: producers, retailers and consumers. each of us must take our shared responsibility and change our lifestyles and attitude to food. at eu level, we need common definition, better data collection and targets, and to raise awareness, exchange best practices and clarify expiry dates and best before labels and rules for charity. i will finish by saying that food waste is our common challenge and we need not only to consider it an option, but a necessity.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that we need to support innovation in the agricultural sector to increase productivity and sustainability. in view of the increasing demand for food resulting from global population growth and some of the negative effects that agriculture can have on the climate, constructive measures need to be taken to enable farmers to produce more food, with fewer resources and in a more climate-friendly way.
madam president, there is no doubt that we must cooperate better with third countries in our neighbourhood in order to manage the root causes of migration, to ensure safe and legal routes to europe as well as a dignified returns policy for those that are not entitled to international protection. i agree with the commissioner on this, but we must get our act together and manage migration flows. just deporting everybody to so-called third countries is a dead end. it is a no-go, and the commission must realise that the eu-turkey statement, or deal, or whatever status it has, is a dead end. it is a no-go created to circumvent the democratic scrutiny of this house. let us instead now focus on the creation of a dignified european asylum system assisting our neighbourhood but never, never, outsource european responsibility to third countries, otherwise this continent, this union, will be held hostage indefinitely.
madam president, i would like to thank you. this proposal is not about cooperation. it's not about migration either. it is a question of stopping refugees, of mobilizing all possible means to this end - economic, trade, visa and even military. do you not see for yourselves how dangerous, inhuman and future-threatening this development is? the eu-turkey agreement is a disgraceful agreement that violates international law and human rights, and now you want to continue on the same track. further externalising and closing the eu's borders through similar agreements between countries such as eritrea and sudan. it's a dead end. the citizens of the eu do not expect a cynically closed europe where we can hardly breathe any longer. we expect a serious discussion based on how we can organise a more solidary and dignified reception and take greater responsibility for the reception of refugees in europe. back to the drawing board!
blue-card question. – mr korwin- mikke, i just want to know what facts you are using when you are talking like you did just one minute ago. are there any facts? do you know how much other parts of the world have got in values from exploiting the african continent during hundreds and hundreds of years? i want facts.
madam president, i would like to thank you. we must remember that every human being is, has been or can, if life so chooses, be forced to become a migrant. and thanks to the technological advances that we're seeing and thanks to the era of globalization that we're living in, it's easier for people to move around the globe. this, of course, places great demands on our societies to manage the flow of migration. whether it's asylum or legal migration, we need to do a better job of integrating those who have arrived. anything else is a waste of people. with their skills, with their knowledge, experience, ambition and willingness to contribute. unfortunately, we have done this in many countries, including sweden, where it has taken nearly seven years for a person to become self-sufficient and live on the income of his own work. it's not acceptable anymore. but integration, i think, has to be built from the ground up, built locally. it can't succeed because it's a decree from above. on the other hand, successful integration can be built on the sharing of experiences, both good and bad, between member states. learning from each other, for an integration that can lead to increased growth, to innovation and creativity. we need that across the eu. migration and successful integration. it can be a new life, new opportunities, new successes. and we need that, so we really need to be able to do this with deep integration.
madam president, i would like to thank you. during the last debate, the commission's proposal was tabled. i could read this on my phone. with so little time to prepare, it is obviously difficult for all of us, but at the same time it is quite easy to guess what the commission would propose. i am as disappointed as i thought i would be when i read the proposal, and i am thinking in particular of the blue card directive. it is still only about those who are highly educated and those who we believe can contribute to europe's competitiveness. it's a little better than before, and that's good, but it's not enough. we had hoped that the commission would also take into account those with less education, those who today also risk their lives in the mediterranean instead of being able to get a job, or seek a job, get a job and be able to get here by ferry, boat, train, plane or whatever. the only answer the commission gives to that group is that we should send them back as soon as possible, or to the country they last crossed. we must also have a solution for those who risk their lives on the way here, the so-called economic migrants or jobseekers. they're not illegal immigrants.
madam president, i welcome the action plan to improve member states’ integration of migrants and the revision of the blue card directive. the time has come to change our rhetoric and recognise that europe needs workers to sustain our economy and our welfare. we have to move from crisis response to managing flows according to our needs. for this, the eu—turkey action plan is a crucial way to have an effective migration policy. we need to save and protect people fleeing conflict, but not all migrants are refugees. those who do not need international protection must be returned safely. developing tools for legal migration to europe is also a way to combat irregular migration. it is a way to prevent people from risking their lives at sea in the hands of criminals who exploit them. i call on member states to fully implement the labour migration tools that exist: the seasonal workers, the intra-corporate transferees and the students and researchers directives. skill development and access to the labour market are the highway to integration, and early integration is key to effective integration. the sooner children go to school and migrants work and contribute to our society, the sooner they will feel part of our society and respect our system and values. this is why it is also important that refugees – in particular women – have access to work to ensure empowerment and social inclusion. in the global fight for talents, europe needs common, clear and simple rules to attract skilled workers and match the needs of our economies. it is not about migrants taking our jobs, but it is about migrants contributing to new... (the president cut off the speaker)(the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i have said many times in this house that solidarity must include all 28 member states, and that we must go from a voluntary system of redistribution of those who have the right of international protection in europe to a more binding system for all the member states, because this is the basis of our common european solidarity.
madam president, i would like to thank you. in the socialist group we see the importance of immigration to europe in more ways than just asylum. to combat human smuggling, we must ensure that there are other ways of entering europe legally and in an organised manner. for example, the blue card directive should be extended beyond the category of skilled workers. the immigration of labour cannot be limited to people with higher education, but of course such a card must always be issued in such forms, given in such forms, that workers cannot exploit people, so that we do not end up in more social dumping. i am therefore disappointed, as are many other members, that this proposal is not included in the proposal which the commission has just presented. in the committee on employment and social affairs we always stress that work is the best way of entering society, and therefore ...
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by thanking the commission for this skills agenda. there has been a long-term effort to make qualifications more comparable between member states, and this is of enormous importance. it is also an important new complement to reaching all those adults who are not eligible for the youth guarantee but who are without education. this is a group that is very weak in the labour market and it is precisely them who need our support. i would, however, like to raise a little finger of caution to the busyness of entrepreneurship that permeates communication. entrepreneurship is described as the way people deal with a labour market and society that is changing very rapidly and to deal with complexity and uncertainty. i think we can all agree that entrepreneurship is important, but to say that it's the solution to all the problems that are being described is going too far. in the worst case, entrepreneurship may be called 'self-employment'.
madam president, there is a swedish expression which says that you should not shout hello until you are over the river. i do not know how you look upon that in other parts of europe, but i would like to advise that as an approach from the commission during the review, because the fact that the money in efsi is spent and used is not a success as such. it would have been a surprise if not, because public—subsidised and public—guaranteed money is always preferred to other types. the remaining problem is that europe still has an investment gap of between eur 300 to 400 to 500 billion annually, and we see it very clearly when we look at the flows of foreign direct investments. since 2007, they have been more or less halved, while in other competing regions they have been doubled. this is the core problem, and in the review the commission needs to look at whether this money is replacing other investments. is it creating attraction to more investments, and at what does it mean that we have undermined research science and the connecting europe facility? this must not be an alibi for reforms to make europe the most entrepreneurial economy in the world by attracting investments, instead of promoting them. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i think the answer is both simple and complex, as always. the main reason for investments in any of our countries is that you can get a return on the investment. otherwise, it is not an investment. therefore, we need to strive for stable public finances but also remind ourselves that, if we in the european union on average have a 10% to 15% higher tax load than in any other competing region, of course this is influencing the climate for investment. so let us change the climate for investment in all parts of the european union and go ahead with that.
in writing. - i voted yes to the report. i am doing this only because it is a logical consequence of croatia's accession to the eu, which means that it will also join this framework agreement. this vote is not about the framework agreement itself, but about the consequences of croatia's accession to the eu. that's the only reason i voted yes.
‒ i voted against the legislative proposal for macro-financial assistance to tunisia. the tunisian economy is suffering and the eu would need to provide financial support. but this proposal links eu support with imf loans, and deepens already neoliberal economic policies that hit the poorest hardest. the imf loans, with the deregulation and privatisation they have entailed, have contributed to tunisia's debt and, over the years, have not brought any improvement in the living conditions of the population, but have, on the contrary, been one of the causes of the widening of the gaps and unemployment in the country. that is why i voted against this motion.
‒ i voted in favour of granting macro-financial assistance to tunisia because it is on track to respect human rights, establish the rule of law and succeed in its democratic transition. it is our moral duty to assist tunisia in this path to successfully complete its transition, especially during a period when its key economic sectors are vulnerable.
in writing. - of course, tax evasion is completely unacceptable. to reduce sophisticated tax planning and to counter tax evasion, we need globally coherent rules to close the loopholes created by fragmented systems. the issue of legislation and regulation is bigger than a single country, a single region or a single continent. common international guidelines are a prerequisite for tackling the problems. the common frameworks developed by the oecd through beps are a key element in the work on tax rules to combat tax base erosion and tax evasion. in the process, it is important to ensure that harmonised rules allow for circumstances specific to national tax systems. it is crucial that individual countries or the eu do not deviate from the common guidelines already drawn up by means of directives. we risk again being left with a patchwork of regulations which in turn open up new forms of tax planning. it is important to ensure equal treatment of enterprises irrespective of their size. if we are to succeed in this work, we must succeed globally. we cannot then add more rules at eu level, as this report does.
in writing. the european parliament voted today on a resolution on the us senate report on the cia's use of torture. the resolution drawn up by the libe committee was opposed to a resolution by my group in the epp. i chose to support the resolution from my own group. when it did not receive the support of the majority, i chose to abstain in the final vote on the libe report. i think that the resolution is unambiguous and categorical in its reference to the member states cooperating with the cia in the fight against international terrorism. there is also reason to be critical of other parts, such as a proposal to grant political asylum to prisoners in guantanamo. this is also the case in the absence of any understanding in the report that national considerations must be taken into account in certain cases in relation to counter-terrorism issues.
‒ space policy is important for europe's security and defence, both in everyday peacetime use and in crisis management and more acute security challenges. however, this resolution contains elements calling for the creation of a defence union, which i voted against. there is already a deeply functioning defence cooperation within nato. we will use the cooperation that exists instead of building a parallel eu system.
in writing. we swedish social democrats share the view that the space sector is playing an increasingly important role in security policy. space research and increased space capacity can be very useful from a broad security perspective, for example by facilitating humanitarian operations and disaster management, or for monitoring global warming and natural disasters such as droughts, earthquakes or floods. we want to see cooperation to safeguard access to space and the use of space services for peaceful purposes so that they benefit human development and security. however, we would like to stress how important we think it is that space activities are carried out with due care and that the eu remains firm in its commitment not to militarize space. we also do not want a common defence union to be established in the future and therefore voted against these texts in the report.
in writing. ‒ we are very concerned about the difficult situation in which the venezuelan people are currently found, both in terms of basic daily needs and the political situation. we are also concerned about the lack of respect for the rules of democracy and for the fundamental freedoms and rights of the people. it is now important that all parties respect the constitution and engage in dialogue to reach a democratic and peaceful solution. that is also what our green resolution was about. the green resolution is free from ideological overtones and places greater emphasis on the democratic deficit, peaceful dialogue and the rule of law than the resolution voted in the house. mp mps chose to stand by our green proposal instead of signing or voting for the common one. we also abstained from the vote because: i am not saying that the european parliament should not be involved in the political process, but i am saying that it should be involved in the political process, and i am not saying that it should be involved in the political process. this too occurred weeks before the last spanish elections in december 2015. the third. the greens were not welcome in the negotiating process to reach a joint resolution.
in writing. - i've lowered my voice. the developments in venezuela have been complex. it is a fact that millions of venezuelans were lifted out of poverty in the years after the turn of the millennium and that the country's indigenous people were included for the first time since colonization in the development of society. but social progress has been both achieved and destroyed. today, unemployment and poverty are rising rapidly, while health care has collapsed. instead of meeting a growing popular discontent with dialogue and reforms, the government has responded with restrictions on press freedom, violence against protesters and the imprisonment of political opponents. instead of diversifying its economy and implementing long-term reforms, its dependence on oil has increased and the economy has collapsed. of course, there are major economic and political interests in other countries that want to influence the country's development, but the main responsibility for the situation in venezuela lies with the country's political leadership. there are important passages in the resolution which point this out and criticise the government. the european parliament has also called for the eu to be involved in the process of negotiating the agreement with the countries of the region. all in all, this caused me to abstain in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ the environment party takes the situation in venezuela, the major democratic deficits and human rights violations in the country very seriously. it is now important that the constitution be respected and that the parties engage in dialogue for a democratic and peaceful solution. however, meps from the green party have opted to abstain in favour of the green motion because: the resolution was created to be used as a baton in the spanish electoral movement; the greens have not been welcomed into the negotiation process; the text is poorly written. the green resolution is free from ideological overtones and places greater emphasis on the democratic deficit, peaceful dialogue and the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ the environment party takes the situation in venezuela, the major democratic deficits and human rights violations in the country very seriously. it is now important that the constitution be respected and that the parties engage in dialogue for a democratic and peaceful solution. however, meps have chosen to abstain in favour of the green motion because we feel that: (1) the resolution has been created to be used as a baton in the spanish electoral movement; (2) the greens have not been welcomed into the negotiation process; (3) the text is poorly written. the green resolution is free from ideological overtones and places greater emphasis on the democratic deficit, peaceful dialogue and the rule of law. we would also like to recall the resolution of this parliament on venezuela last year, which, like our resolution, addressed these problems in strong terms.
in writing. ‒ the environment party is very concerned about the difficult situation in which the venezuelan people are currently found, both in terms of basic daily needs and the political situation. we are also concerned about the lack of respect for the rules of democracy and for the fundamental freedoms and rights of the people. it is now important that all parties respect the constitution and engage in dialogue to reach a democratic and peaceful solution. that is also what our green resolution was about. the green resolution is free from ideological overtones and places greater emphasis on the democratic deficit, peaceful dialogue and the rule of law than the resolution voted in the house. mp mps chose to stand by our green proposal instead of signing or voting for the common one. we also abstained from the vote because: i am not saying that the european parliament should not be involved in the political process, but i am saying that it should be involved in the political process, and i am not saying that it should be involved in the political process. this too occurred weeks before the last spanish elections in december 2015. the third. the greens were not welcome in the negotiating process to reach a joint resolution.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. getting elected in turkey is not only difficult because of the high threshold of 10 percent it can also be dangerous. you can go to jail for your opinions. despite the threshold, the hdp, which brings together various minority groups - the greens and a number of democratic groups - managed to gain a large margin in the turkish parliament in june last year, but also later in the new elections, although with fewer seats and after a dirty election campaign. in its reply to the commission's progress report on turkey, parliament said of the elections: 'parliament condemned ... the threats and harassment of the media and the discrimination against opposition parties in the pre-election reporting, the atmosphere of violence and threats characterised mainly by the attacks on individual candidates and the offices of opposition parties, in particular the peoples' democratic party (hdp), and the strong political polarisation.' on 20 may this year, the turkish parliament approved a proposal to allow the prosecution and punishment of members of parliament. it is mainly directed against the hdp and it is likely to be mainly about violations of the turkish terrorism legislation. it is the same law that is the great stumbling block when we discuss visa facilitation for turkey, the law that is so markedly different from the way we in the eu view terrorism, freedom of expression, freedom of assembly, freedom of the press, and which i wonder how many of us who have openly criticized the turkish president would suffer if we were turkish citizens living in turkey. how many of us would have signed the call for academics? but even those accused of corruption get their immunity lifted. why can't the same be said for members of the government or the president himself? the issue of corruption is another of the stumbling blocks for turkey to meet the criteria for visa facilitation. the european parliament has also expressed its concern in this report. so this is how we write it. the european parliament reiterates its concern about the anti-terrorism law. in particular, its broad and extremely vague definition of terrorism, organised crime and propaganda makes it impossible to determine the exact nature of these crimes. we also write: deplores the distortion of the course of justice in favour of certain politicians, which became a daily occurrence in turkey after the 2013 corruption scandal; the president wants to change the constitution and give us more power. the president wants to tighten the anti-terrorism law even further. the victims on the way are parliamentarians, academics, journalists, judges, minorities and all those who believe in democracy and the rule of law and those who believe that dialogue is better than violence to solve problems. president erdoğan has now signed the law. he should be ashamed of himself.
mr president, i must say as the rapporteur for trade defence instruments, it has been pretty bizarre to have a debate on a file that was presented in april 2013 and that parliament took a clear position on in february 2014. two commissioners have tried to reform this and both, peter mandelson and karel de gucht, failed because of the inability of council to agree. but now we do not have time for that anymore. by 11 december the council has to find a solution, a robust system that is legally compatible with the wto, in order to not end up in a trade conflict. you have to find a balance between the producer industries’ competitiveness and the user industries’ competitiveness, and the interests of the consumers. but there are many myths when it comes to trade defence instruments. the most predominant one is probably that they do not deliver any protection at all and do not work to protect industries. but let us look at steel. we have 20 measures today in steel. measures that have delivered rapid, sustained and substantial degrees of import to the european union, from 85 to 99%. and we know that, as mr frédéric bastiat concluded 200 years ago when he wrote the candlemaker’s petition, many industries are willing to go to considerable extremes to get even more protection. therefore, we, as lawmakers, have to take the responsibility to guarantee that we strike a balance in the broadest public interest, and that is what i expect from you.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. whaling is incredibly cruel. whales are harpooned and met with a slow death. in modern whaling, the harpoon is fired at the whale with a grenade. the shell explodes a foot into the whale's body, sending it into shock until it dies. since 1986, there has been a ban on commercial whaling. the goal is to save whales from extinction. the only exceptions to the ban are hunting for indigenous needs and for scientific purposes. when the decision was made, suddenly japan became very interested in doing research. they started their whale research program just one year after the moratorium and continued to hunt whales in antarctica. since 1987, japan has killed over 13,000 whales in its so-called scientific programs, even though it was widely known that its whaling was primarily for commercial purposes. however, in march 2014, the international court of justice in the hague ruled that japanese whaling was not conducted for scientific purposes. i am very disappointed with japan, which, despite this ruling, has resumed whaling. they now plan to catch 4,000 whales over a 12-year period. so far this season, they have killed 333 humpbacks, more than 200 of which were pregnant, several with twins. japan does not respect international law. we must make it clear to japan that this is not acceptable. it is not only contrary to international law, but it poses a serious threat to biodiversity and marine ecosystems. in addition, demand for whale meat has fallen sharply as japanese consumers have become better informed. this makes it all the more incomprehensible why japan insists on continuing. the eu must respond. it is time for the council to put more pressure on japan and not to hesitate to take legal action if necessary. the eu must use the means of pressure at its disposal - political and economic - to bring this cruel slaughter to an end.
‒ today we voted in favour of the resolution on the competitiveness of subcontractors in the railway sector. the resolution highlighted, inter alia, the need for future trade agreements and ongoing negotiations with the us, china and japan not to lead to outsourcing and deindustrialisation in the eu. this means that we believe that agreements should be based on free trade, open markets and competition, which is also the basis for europe's economy and rail sector to grow and be competitive in a global market.
for the efdd group. president. - the debate is closed. how are we going to prevent radicalization? yes, it is an extremely important and topical question. but much more urgent is to talk about why the problem has arisen. i would like to start by strongly criticising the commission for allowing millions of migrants to enter the eu in 2014-2015 without having any control at all over who actually entered european territory. it is no secret that many jihadists came on the refugee boats; we have seen plenty of evidence of this. thousands of jihadists are already in the eu today, as we know, and there are probably many more that we do not know about. we've heard of a mobilisation of dormant cells, which seem to wake up a little here and there. and given that much of this scum is on european soil, it is not surprising that they are trying to attract new killers to our member states. in addition, many people are leaving europe to fight for islamism; just in the last week we have heard reports of many joining terrorist networks. i am sure that the governments will soon order the member states to reopen their borders. what happens then? i think it is good that an eu directive is being drawn up that specifically targets stopping terrorism, instead of stupid proposals like banning the possession of weapons for hunters and sport shooters. finally, a proposal that tackles the problem from the right angle. i will work in this parliament to ensure that three steps are implemented: hyperlink "x-apple-data-detectors://embedded-result/321" \t "_blank" control of our borders, harsher punishments for those who have committed or planned acts of terrorism and the loss of citizenship in connection with terrorist travel. we have to stop the back-and-forth and the talk that if we just get more farms and more money to the marginalized areas, we'll probably solve the problem of radicalization. it is time we thought of our own citizens in the eu.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. i would like to begin by thanking mr wałęsa and his team for the work they have put into completing the negotiations. the baltic sea plan is the first management plan in which parliament and the council of ministers jointly set a limit on the amount we can fish. the negotiations have been tough and i am disappointed that we did not go all the way to defend parliament's ambitious position which would have meant an end to overfishing within the eu. an ocean is not an aquarium where all the factors can be controlled. the situation in our sensitive baltic inland waters is also extremely difficult. this uncertainty requires safety margins when determining maximum sustainable yields of fish. to achieve the goal of a healthy baltic sea with viable fish stocks, we cannot always fish at the maximum sustainable yield - fmsy. we need to stay below the surface so that the fish stocks can recover. instead of deciding how much we should fish under fmsy, the negotiations became about what situations you can fish over fmsy and how much over fmsy. i regret that i cannot recommend to my group that we vote in favour of this agreement. it is not in line with the objective set out in the basic regulation of the eu fisheries policy. at least we managed to incorporate a number of protective mechanisms into the plan. the first test is that three weeks ago there was an alarming report on the state of the cod in the western baltic sea, which is threatened with collapse because of poor rejuvenation. the ball is now in commissioner vella's court. the commission will now draw up a proposal for new fishing quotas based on the baltic sea plan. in order to protect the cod in the western stock, i expect the commission to propose quotas which are in line with the conservation measures described in the plan. we have every reason to be concerned about stopping the overfishing of european waters, and from a citizen's perspective it is important that the eu institutions respect and follow the decisions we take and not undermine them by pushing through conflicting decisions. to say that we are going to protect our oceans from overfishing and at the same time allow it is hypocrisy. it undermines, if anything, confidence in politics and european cooperation.
blue-card question. – i completely agree with your ambition to have realistic goals. my problem with this is that we already have a huge amount of renewable energy that we are not transmitting and therefore not using. there is a case in spain where we have an enormous amount of renewable energy that is not passing over the border of france. do you not think that the commission should put much stronger effort into transmitting renewable energy?
mr president, i would like to thank you. tackling energy and climate issues is one of the most important things we have to do in this mandate. we must make real what we promised each other in paris, and then we must ensure that we phase out subsidies to fossil fuels and instead focus policy on promoting a transition to 100 per cent renewable energy. one way of doing this is to strengthen the interconnection between our different energy systems in europe. we greens want to remove unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles that prevent this and make large, strong investments to achieve our interconnection goals. and we emphasize that increased regional cooperation can increase the cost-effectiveness of the systems and help that when the sun does not shine in one country, we can use the energy from wind power in another country or water power in a third. renewable energy requires a more decentralized system, and we need to do more to create it now.
mr president, energy efficiency is about economic efficiency and reducing emissions, not about reducing our economies. i think it is important to remember that, because sometimes in these discussions it sounds as if we think that just by setting a target then we will solve the problem. that is not the case and that belief would undermine our ability to reach our objective. the magnitude of change lies of course in reforming our markets in order to make them open and secure so that we get new generations of technology. i think there are some key issues that we need to think about. first of all, open markets – open for new and renewable energies, but also open for competition, pressing prices, but also securing the best way of using the energy we have. market prices, because otherwise there will be no opportunity for the new emerging energy sources to be successful. we will need to secure economic growth to invest in new generations of technology, and we need to rely also on nuclear power. but our watchword is, of course, less fossil fuels and less heavy infrastructure investments that make, for example, natural gas cheaper than it really is, especially when it comes from monopolies. so the whole issue, mr commissioner, about nordstream 2 is also part of achieving energy efficiency in the european union and a functioning energy union.
in writing. ‒ i have abstained on the framework agreement between the european union and the republic of lebanon. on the one hand, it is about the fact that some of the programmes can provide lebanon with a meaningful exchange. i'm positive about that. but in the long term, there is the goal of a free trade agreement. i am opposed to the way the eu is currently framing these agreements vis-à-vis third countries, as they do not promote economic development and social justice. that's why i choose to keep my voice down.
‒ today we voted on financial aid from the so-called globalisation fund to people who have become unemployed after european companies have closed down. i am consistently voting no to these unemployment benefits for two reasons: first, labour market policies and financial support for the unemployed should be decided on, and financed, at national level not at eu level. secondly, the fund's basic idea is that globalisation is something negative - which is not true. globalization and free trade lead to growth and peace.
in writing. - i voted against the report. the original commission proposal was a good plan to make the baltic sea fisheries more sustainable. unfortunately, the report was watered down, for example, it is allowed to fish above the recommended levels of sustainability (maximum sustainable yield) and we can never support that. this report threatens both biodiversity and the fisheries sector, as fish stocks are being depleted by overfishing. allowing fishing beyond the recommended levels also weakens the framework of the european common fisheries policy. that is why i voted against the report.
‒ today i voted on the own-initiative report on the state of play of renewable energy. the report contained problematic proposals for binding targets of at least 30% renewable energy as well as national sub-targets. the report also included a problematic point on forest bioenergy and its alleged negative impact on the environment. i believe that it is the responsibility of the member states to control their own energy mix and to stick to the percentages already decided, but i nevertheless chose to support the report in the final vote in plenary, as the report was broadly based on messages about the importance of renewable energy solutions.
‒ today we voted in favour of the report on the state of play of renewable energy. renewable energy is a prerequisite for achieving environmental and climate objectives and requires an energy market based on open and free competition, market prices and incentives to invest in new technologies and transmission. the report adopted by parliament proposes a binding target of at least 30% renewable energy with national sub-targets. however, we believe that it is, and should remain, the exclusive competence of the member states to control their own energy mix. the report also includes a paragraph which points to bioenergy from forestry as potentially harmful to the environment and the climate. sweden has a long and broad experience of using forests in an efficient and environmentally friendly way, which uses forest resources with the least possible climate and environmental impact. we therefore do not share the report's problematic approach, but on the contrary, we see sustainable forestry as part of the effort to reduce emissions.
‒ i voted against the resolution because it calls for the uk to activate article 50 of the lisbon treaty as a matter of urgency and to begin withdrawing from the eu. it also calls for the eu to amend the treaties. i think this is the wrong way to go. what is needed is time for reflection and leadership, not hasty decisions and even more uncertainty about where the eu is going. it is also not up to the eu to ask for the activation of article 50, but something the uk must decide on without outside interference. we must now take a constructive attitude and not isolate or humiliate the united kingdom.
mr president, i share the report’s attempt to strike a reasonable balance between the health and environment concerns and the competitiveness of eu industry, manufacturing and jobs. but we should be aware that despite the improvements in the last decades air pollution remains a major concern. several eu urban areas do not meet the air quality standards and will not meet them in the foreseeable future. the challenge before us is the capacity of making environmental legislation being seen as an economic opportunity. in this sense i really hope this proposal will contribute to the competitiveness of european industry, particularly for non-road mobile machinery suppliers and i hope it will enable them to reap the full benefits of the internal market and to help eu enterprises to be more successful both here and abroad.
madam president, i would like to thank you. it is no easy task to promote a constructive integration policy in a social climate where xenophobia and fear are spreading. i would therefore like to thank in particular mr brando benifei for this report, which has been very, very good and which i really hope will have the full support of the whole parliament. in our committee, the committee on employment and social affairs, we have stressed that work is the best way to establish oneself and to enter a new country. however, where and how one lives during the asylum period plays a very important role in this establishment. here, there is a need for faster processes and order so that asylum seekers are not left behind or exploited in a black labour market. in this report, mr benifei also stresses that we must use the european social fund to support the integration process and to ensure that we do not end up in these difficult situations where exclusion becomes the only option. it is simply a matter of using the fund to invest in a european future, and i hope we can agree on that too.
madam president, i would like to thank you. given the large number of refugees seeking to enter the eu, their integration will be one of the most important issues for the next 10 to 15 years. if we succeed in integrating these people, the eu will be able to maintain its openness to the world and remain a continent with relatively little racism and xenophobia. if we fail, we will not only have problems with openness, trade and growth, but we will also face a very dark future. to succeed, much more is needed than education. i'm aware that what is required can be controversial. some countries must be forced to offer fair conditions, basic rights, arrange language courses; others to open up their closed labour markets, but let me say this: we have no choice. it is only today's solidarity with those who are outside that can prevent and prevent the problems of tomorrow. so let us do things in time for once and let us use the eu's soft power to influence countries in the desirable direction.
madam president, i would like to thank you. thank you very much for an exciting debate. after listening to it for a while, you might think that the youth unemployment thing is something for southern italy. i can hereby say that even in a fairly rich and unspoilt country like sweden we have a major problem with youth unemployment. i do not think that you should have those very simple explanations, and i think it is very important that we continue to nurture the kind of programmes that we have in order to give young people a chance to enter the labour market. we have asked the commissioner on several occasions: is this really gonna work? is it worth continuing to gamble? is it too much, too little? each time, we get a pretty optimistic response. now, madame thyssen said it was a key. let's hope that's a key and let's be persistent in defending and filling this money for as long as possible, because it will turn.
mr president, my thanks to the rapporteur. i think it is important when you discuss energy efficiency labelling that the whole idea is not to get things right. the whole idea is to make things better and better, and that is why it is so important to have clear labelling that is easy to understand because that will empower consumers to always make a better choice and support industry which wants to develop better technologies. and i think this is important not only for this discussion but for a lot of other discussions about energy use and energy efficiency. every new generation, whatever machinery it is, is better than the last. and those who think we can do better by freezing development are also fundamentally wrong. that is a very clear sign from this discussion about energy labelling. and that is why i also think it is important not to believe here in bureaucracy too much, not to believe that we can achieve this by regulations. this is business-driven not database-driven, and if the database is not simple, easy, non-bureaucratic, it will hinder, it will freeze the development. and that is why i gave the support to the compromises but i also would like to underline that this must be open for business-driven technology and business-driven variation and dialogue with consumers.
mr president, i would like to thank you. let me give you a different and somewhat less distorted picture of trade than the one we have just heard from the greens. in 1990, world trade accounted for 19 percent of world gdp. it was a total value of $3.5 trillion. today, it represents 30 percent of the world's gdp, and its total value has more than quadrupled. at that time, 38 percent of the world's population lived in absolute poverty. today, 10 percent of the world's population lives in absolute poverty. so it's been halved twice, but it's not just that there's an absolute and causal relationship there. the trade in a wealthy (unheard of word) eradicates poverty. the problem we have is that this development is being dampened. the increase in trade today and since 2008 is less than half the average since 1990. and this is unfortunately very much due to protectionism. since 2008, when almost 3800 protectionist measures were introduced worldwide, only one third of the trade facilitation measures have been implemented. from 1995 to 2008, the average tariff was halved from 19% to 10% but since then it has remained at almost the same level and that is why the commission's trade strategy is so important to reverse this trend but it is necessary to take advantage of all the important issues that you write about. to actually take on the fight against trade barriers. complicated rules of origin, for example. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because it will cost lives in poor countries.
mr president, we all agree that trafficking is not only a grave devaluation of human rights, but also the modern slavery of our times. allow me, in that light, to remind us that 2015-16 will be remembered as the years when the european union and european governments failed to respond to the humanitarian needs of refugees and migrants seeking safety in europe. but these years will also be remembered as years where europeans accepted that women, men, girls and boys were bought, exploited and treated as commodities. colleagues, we need to work together. cooperation and coordination between member states is crucial when fighting trafficking. our response has to be clear in order to address the problem by ensuring that victims are also treated as rightsholders as well as we have to stop these criminal gangs on time.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in the wake of the brexit debate, it is extremely important to remember that there are states in both the balkans and eastern europe that have a tremendous desire to join the eu. this will should be notified; it should be counterbalanced and we should help to help these countries to meet the conditions for membership. bosnia and herzegovina, for example, has made remarkable efforts in recent years to implement the necessary reforms. the question of the association agreement and the census also seems to have been resolved. the slovak presidency will then have to accept the country's application and grant it official candidate status. we cannot risk these efforts going unnoticed, because that will put both the union and bosnia at risk. i would therefore encourage the commission to show solidarity and to pay attention to those countries which are striving for membership rather than to those which do not want to join.
madam president, the united kingdom has contributed strongly to the europe of today, and for as long as the united kingdom is a member of the european union, it should be respected as such. we are a legal union and i hope that the commission, as well as everybody else, will act accordingly. but looking at the united kingdom today, i see a governmental crisis, a political crisis, a constitutional crisis, an economic crisis, and a financial crisis. dear colleagues, it is not a very impressive success story – to put it mildly – and i wonder which other country would like to dive into that cause. there is, however, one thing that unites all the brexiters: either they have resigned or they are still disoriented. they are united in one thing: they want to be as close to the internal market as possible, and the internal market would not have been possible without the european union, so they are dreaming and hoping to be as close as possible to the internal market, because of its fundamental importance. they are giving up control over its development. in swedish there is a phase which says: you sold the butter and lost the money. now we need to do the best thing and that is to avoid divisive conflicts. be proud of what we have achieved, a reunited europe, an internal market, a common policy on climate, energy, and the environment: that is what we are, that is a good delivery. we can do better, but that is up to politicians, not to the union. but the union is strong.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement, which provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for the citizens of peru – who i know have been looking forward to this moment – when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons, from ordinary to official, travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. i firmly believe that this agreement is a significant step in the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of peru. i feel confident that it will simplify the lives of many, strengthen economic and cultural relations, and help in improving the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
mr president, i did not support this report, and that is why i want to make an explanation. the very subject which is to be the main subject of the report, the employment of refugees, is right and it is good that we are debating it on the floor of this house. on the other hand, i regret that a number of other provisions have ended up in the text itself, which are not directly related to the employment of refugees and their integration into society. and that is why i could not support this report, because, in short, i have a problem with the considerations concerning the single common asylum system, i have a problem with the creation of a permanent redistribution mechanism, the so-called quotas. these are powerful political issues that divide this house. there are different views on this, and it is a bit unfortunate that the item that should really be about how to help refugees in a material way and better integrate them and provide them with work contains these specific provisions that are politically difficult for me to accept.
mr president, i have supported this report because i think that access to work is the highway to integration, social inclusion and dignity for refugees and asylum seekers. i think, too, that asylum seekers should not live on subsidies, but should have the right to work in accordance the qualifications and reception conditions directives, which should be law in the member states and should be enforced there. at the same time, let us be clear: the labour market is a national competence and we should respect the fact that the way the labour market is organised is decided by the member states. i also think it is important to make the distinction between access to the labour market and general access to other social benefits: and here we cannot give equal status to refugees who have obtained international protection and all the asylum seekers who might also be economic migrants and persons not entitled to international protection. it should be up to the member states to decide what social protection – what level of social security – should be given to them.
‒ i have voted against the proposal to allocate 25% of the budget of the european social fund to measures to integrate refugees into the labour market. it is important to allocate money for this purpose, but the exact amount has to be decided in the ordinary budgetary process.
in writing. ‒ for us moderates, it is a matter of course that eu member states should have an effective legislation that provides refugees with good conditions for integration into the labour market. many of the proposals put forward here are both reasonable and good. but we oppose attempts to transfer power over these issues to the eu level. the situation varies from one member state to another, and therefore there should be room for eu countries to adapt their integration tools to national circumstances. we have nevertheless decided to support the report.
‒ i voted in favour of the report. the report highlights an important criticism of the eu's current trade policy, which is largely inconsistent with social and environmental standards. eu trade is sometimes also at the expense of fundamental human rights. the report proposes a number of important measures to change this, including the importance of respecting the eight core ilo conventions in all trade agreements. however, there are still passages in the report which argue that trade itself brings about positive changes (e.g. recital c). i would stress that trade can only play a positive role if it is surrounded by a framework which requires respect for social and environmental standards. and since the report also emphasizes this in its main points, i have voted in favour.
‒ we moderates voted today in favour of the report on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility in trade policy. the eu's trade policy shall be conducted in a manner that promotes sustainability, human rights and poverty reduction. this is also something to which the present trade policy contributes. however, we take for granted that tax policy is a matter for national decisionmaking - we do not support the requirement that companies be taxed where their economic activities take place, as this would risk preventing countries from deciding for themselves how to levy corporation tax.
in writing. - i voted against the report. the eu's trade policy is basically driven by the profit interests of europe's big companies. the trade agenda under commissioners mandelson, de gucht and now malmström are examples of this. perhaps with the difference that the commission has in recent years been a little more soft on its wording, it has been taken in by the growing popular criticism of trade agreements such as ttip. but in actual practice, nothing has changed. the report supports the policy pursued by the commission, and supports, among other things, the undemocratic ttip and tisa agreements currently being negotiated, including the specialised courts (ics) where large companies will be able to sue states. the report also contains some positive statements, for example on the ilo's involvement, csr requirements and the role of unctad. but in essence, the report is a continuation of support for the commercial policy guided by the profit interests of the big european companies, which is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted today in favour of a non-legislative report 'on the fight against trafficking in human beings in the eu's external relations'. i supported this, because human trafficking, in its way of turning people into commodities, is one of the worst human rights violations. it is about the weakest and most vulnerable people in sweden, europe and the world. i welcome the constructive proposals for action contained in the resolution. as kd opposes a european prosecutor's office, i would like to emphasise that this is still the case, as there are documents on the extension of the mandate of the 'future european union general prosecutor's office'. the report also condemns forced surrogacy, but calls on the member states to 'consider the consequences of their own restrictive reproductive policies'. this writing surprises me, since so-called altruistic surrogacy is a controversial phenomenon. moreover, like other medical ethical issues, the issue clearly belongs at national level. since the members of the european parliament have previously expressed their views on the abortion legislation of the eu countries, it is certainly logical to express their views on other medical ethics legislation in the member states. but it is, nevertheless, wrong. i would therefore like to stress that the christian democrats take a critical view of surrogacy.
in writing. - i've lowered my voice. the report contains many positive proposals to combat trafficking in human beings. there are gender aspects, and it shows a clear link between prostitution and human trafficking. the problem is the support in the text for the fortress europe policy. the report makes several references to the eu's inhumane and increasingly restrictive refugee and migration policies. the work against trafficking in human beings is even used as an excuse for cooperation with dictatorships in the khartoum process and to legitimize the eu's military operations in the mediterranean (eu med nav for). this is not acceptable. what is needed is to counter demand, to criminalise the purchase of sex, to combat the sex industry which makes huge profits at the expense of vulnerable women, and above all to create safe and legal routes into the eu so that women are not victims of trafficking. that's why i'm lowering my voice.
in writing. ‒ i fully supported the report on the external dimension of trafficking in human beings because this modern slavery is a global challenge that needs a global response. we need to step up our police and judiciary cooperation to fight traffickers and combat impunity. the majority of victims of trafficking are women and girls to be exploited for prostitution. countries need to reduce demand, and criminalising the use of services of a victim of trafficking is crucial. we need to do more on prevention, to identify early potential victims of human trafficking, even by using the internet to raise awareness. protection of victims is also essential, with shelter and psychological assistance. particular attention should be given to children, abused, trafficked all over the world to be exploited for child labour, child soldier, child marriage and other kind violence. let’s join forces to eradicate this atrocity. it is time for women, children and men to be freed!
in writing. ‒ it is incredibly important to me that we in the international community work together to prevent people from being exploited and exposed to crime. it is important that the eu and its member states actively work against the exploitation of human beings and, in the international contexts in which we operate, work towards the development of international instruments that counteract this type of exploitation. for me, it is the outcome that is important and that we find together the best tools to counter the exploitation of people, and not that these tools have to look a specific way.
madam president, i have three points. first of all, in europe, we already have the highest tax load in the world. that means that european companies are paying 10% to 15% more tax than in any other region in the world. this is one of the reasons why we have too little investment and we have a decline in investments. that is why it is important for this to be about fighting illegal tax avoidance, not making it more difficult to invest in europe. second, tax is a national competence. even though i know that very many here would like it another way around, it is a national competence and will remain so. we are not a european tax court. sometimes, when i listen to the words here, i think some colleagues forget that we are not those who are to judge, but those who are to legislate on the issues we are responsible for. third, we need to have cooperation between member states. that is why it is important to stick to the organisation for economic development rules and beps recommendations: because otherwise we create new grey zones, disadvantages for the european economy and better opportunities for those who like to illegally avoid tax.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the idea behind the creation of schengen was to abolish the internal borders between our member states and strengthen the external border. today we are moving towards this. in fact, the external borders for sweden are italy and greece, if we are to take the union seriously. we are now taking a step with this important report, for which i congratulate the rapporteur, a step towards a european management of external borders. what we are achieving is a border control which will protect us against arms smuggling, against drugs, against terrorist activities and all kinds of other things that we do not want. this, i want to make clear, is not about stopping people seeking refuge for their lives from war and persecution. it's a misunderstanding. we liberals wanted to go a little further. we have not yet come all the way, but politics, as we know, is a marathon and there will be more to come.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the desire and the proposal to militarize the eu's borders with razor blades, high technology and border guards has been around for a long time, but until today these proposals had been stopped by all of us who believe in an open europe. all of us who know that we have no future together if we shut out those fleeing war, conflict and extreme conditions. you all want to talk about farage's unpleasant racist nationalism, but don't you see that it's his policies you're conforming to? hotspots, deportations, stopping refugees in third countries. the eu has become too much like ukip. today, eu cooperation is showing its worst side, namely its capacity to act when it comes to locking people out and its complete inability to act when it comes to standing up in solidarity for international asylum law. believe me, there are many of us who do not accept this europe. many of us feel that superfrontex is a super-giant step in the wrong direction.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the proposal is better than the commission's original proposal, but just because something has been improved does not mean that it is good. the fact that decisions can be taken quickly, as the rapporteur stressed, does not mean that they will be good decisions either. rather, they often become worse because they are unthinking. i have always thought that the day frontex's main task is to save lives, instead of shutting people out of europe, i will give them my support. we now had an opportunity to make a change, but we didn't take it, and frontex plus is not getting my support today either. when we began our term of office, we were told that we should not legislate so much as apply what we already have. instead, there will be a torrent of hastily drafted proposals. this took six months, you said, and speed means, as i said just now, it's not quality at all. what we are dealing with now is that the fight against terrorism and migration has become our most important task in the eu, and i cannot agree with that. commissioner avramopoulos said that people should come in by legal routes, but then we have to create such roads first.
madam president, it took only a few months to agree on a common european border and coast guard, which is urgently needed to control our external borders better, manage migration flows and combat terrorism. this shows to the citizens of europe that, on key issues which concern them, such as migration and security, the eu is able to deliver fast. effective control of our external borders is also a precondition for, and paves the way for, restoring schengen. the beefed-up frontex should be an operational tool to support member states in saving lives, fighting smugglers and traffickers, registering migrants with fingerprints, sharing information and now also assisting member states in return operations. i welcome the fact that responsibility for police and border guards continue to be a national competence and that sovereignty is respected and shared responsibilities clearly defined. the council can trigger a joint operation with transparent decision—making procedures. let me conclude by saying that i am happy that we managed to include children’s rights in the new rules.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by congratulating you on your presidency. sweden is a small country that is extremely dependent on us having safe conditions in our surroundings, that we can trade. this has led to a fairly prosperous economy. this does not mean that we are without challenges, but we see many challenges ahead of us. on the other hand, we've been able to create a rich situation. when slovakia joined the european union, there was a debate in sweden about whether or not we should have transitional rules for slovak citizens moving to sweden. my party and i stood on the barricades to ensure that all eu members are treated equally and we won that fight. we can also see today in all statistics, in all economics, that the fear that others had that we would have what was called social tourism did not come true. the slovak citizens who have come to sweden during this time have made a great contribution to the economy of our country, and we are grateful for that. this openness is also important to take into account in the work you have to do in the future. also, be careful about the things you choose to bring up politically. i see trade agreements being questioned as if it were not where the economy was created, as if we had a money machine that stood by and made sure that we could maintain our social level in sweden. in sweden, we know from left to right on the political spectrum that important free trade agreements are what create the values that can sustain our social status. i hope that you will be able to deliver on the trade agreements that are coming, but also to choose carefully what are european issues and what are national issues. good luck with that.
mr president, i would like to thank you. what we are doing now is discussing parliament's record of the commission's work for next year. one might have expected that the brexit vote would have given more of an impression, for a little self-reflection on the problems of the eu. why has one country decided to leave? does it really make sense to call for even more centralisation and a large increase in the eu budget? i don't think it was. the brexit vote should be a wake-up call to the fact that the eu is suffering from a crisis of legitimacy. but instead, the european parliament wants to push the snooze button. what we need now is a proper discussion of the democratic problems of the european union. we need decentralisation, we need democratisation and we need security guarantees for non-euro countries, which make them feel that the eu is for all its members.
in writing. - i've lowered my voice. a framework agreement is of course a positive step in the sense that azerbaijan will have access to various eu programmes, exchanges with eu countries and meetings between citizens. but in azerbaijan today, there are many human rights violations. freedom of expression, assembly and association do not exist in the true sense. i therefore believe that the eu should demand democratic reforms from the azerbaijani government before a framework agreement is concluded. that is why i have abstained from voting.
in writing. – enabling azerbaijan to participate in certain european programmes is important in order to strengthen the bilateral cooperation and eastern partnership. azerbaijan’s neighbours have concluded such protocols and it is important to do it with azerbaijan as well. azerbaijan is an important energy partner for the eu. hence, eu-azerbaijan relations should not be restricted to energy security. this partnership has to be based on the context of all aspects of cooperation envisaged in the framework of the eastern partnership. at a time when the eu’s future is threatened, it is important to maintain partnership with eastern european counties in order to preserve stability in the region as well as to help promote democratic values. i am convinced that this agreement will promote the eus’ relations with azerbaijan and help the country deal with its increasing difficulties which their civil society actors and organisations face.
‒ we are voting against this report because we do not want to support paragraph 3 and the writings which insist that surpluses arising in the eu budget should be reused instead of adjusting the gni contributions of the member states. higher revenues do not automatically mean higher eu spending.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposal for a regulation should be amended to include the possibility of a reduction in the amount of the surplus in the community budget. higher revenues do not automatically mean higher eu spending. budget surpluses mean that the eu has demanded high fees from the member states based on the final budget, and these extra revenues should be returned to the member states.
‒ for us moderates, it is self-evident that the 2015 budget surplus should be transferred to the 2016 budget, provided that such transfer also implies a corresponding downward adjustment of the member states' contributions to the budget. we therefore support this resolution, but we would like to stress that we do not support the demand that future transfers of surpluses should instead mean an increase in the eu budget. we are not solving europe's problems by spending more money at the eu level.
‒ while the proposal for a european border and coast guard agency contains some positive aspects, such as the complaints mechanism, the proposal is mainly about extending the powers of the eu border agency frontex. member states with large inflows of refugees may be forced to intensify their border controls in order not to be excluded from schengen. frontex is also given a mandate to carry out border surveillance activities in the eu's neighbouring countries. the main aim of the proposal is therefore to reduce the influx of refugees into europe and to return irregular refugees to their countries of origin or transit. in addition to undermining the sovereignty of member states and preventing refugees from seeking asylum in europe, the proposal further shifts the eu's responsibility for refugees to countries outside europe where they are at greater risk of human rights violations. despite the efforts of the green group to improve the text, the compromise text still contains parts which we cannot support. we are rather in favour of a border management in europe which respects human rights and promotes, rather than hinders, the protection of refugees. we need to focus on life-saving operations for people in distress at sea and ensure that those who reach our borders are able to exercise their right to seek asylum. border controls must never lead to people being denied access to protection in europe.
‒ while the proposal for a european border and coast guard agency contains some positive aspects, such as the complaints mechanism, the proposal is mainly about extending the powers of the eu border agency frontex. member states with large inflows of refugees may be forced to intensify their border controls in order not to be excluded from schengen. frontex also has a mandate to carry out border surveillance activities in the eu's neighbouring countries. the main aim of the proposal is therefore to reduce the influx of refugees into europe and to return irregular refugees to their countries of origin or transit. in addition to undermining the sovereignty of member states and preventing refugees from seeking asylum in europe, the proposal further shifts the eu's responsibility for refugees to countries outside europe where they are at greater risk of human rights violations. despite the efforts of the green group to improve the text, the compromise text still contains parts which we cannot support. we are rather in favour of a border management in europe which respects human rights and promotes, rather than hinders, the protection of refugees. we need to focus on life-saving operations for people in distress at sea and ensure that those who reach our borders are able to exercise their right to seek asylum. border controls must never lead to people being denied access to protection in europe.
‒ while the proposal for a european border and coast guard agency contains some positive aspects, such as the complaints mechanism, the proposal is mainly about extending the powers of the eu border agency frontex. member states with large inflows of refugees may be forced to intensify their border controls in order not to be excluded from schengen. frontex also has a mandate to carry out border surveillance activities in the eu's neighbouring countries. the main aim of the proposal is therefore to reduce the influx of refugees into europe and to return irregular refugees to their countries of origin or transit. in addition to undermining the sovereignty of member states and preventing refugees from seeking asylum in europe, the proposal further shifts the eu's responsibility for refugees to countries outside europe where they are at greater risk of human rights violations. despite the efforts of the green group to improve the text, the compromise text still contains parts which we cannot support. we are rather in favour of a border management in europe which respects human rights and promotes, rather than hinders, the protection of refugees. we need to focus on life-saving operations for people in distress at sea and ensure that those who reach our borders are able to exercise their right to seek asylum. border controls must never lead to people being denied access to protection in europe.
‒ cramer on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1406/2002 establishing a european maritime safety agency i voted against the report. the report calls for the european maritime safety agency to cooperate with the european border and coast guard agency (superfrontex) and the european fisheries control agency in the surveillance of member states' borders. this report is linked to the new superfrontex and aims to ensure that more authorities monitor the borders. the eu continues to dictate to member states how border and coast guard authorities should carry out their work, and we do not agree with that. that is why i voted against the report.
‒ cadec on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 768/2005 establishing a community control body for fisheries. i voted against the report. the report calls for the european fisheries control agency and the european maritime safety agency to cooperate with the european border and coast guard agency (superfrontex) in the surveillance of the borders of the member states. the eu continues to dictate to member states how border and coast guard authorities should carry out their work, and we do not agree with that. that is why i voted against the report.
‒ we welcome the efforts to ensure an independent relationship between olaf and its monitoring committee. however, we question the decision to transfer responsibility for the appointment of the monitoring committee and its budget to the commission itself, since olaf acts as the supervisory authority for the commission. it would be more appropriate if the responsibility for the monitoring committee fell to the council of ministers or the court of auditors.
‒ the report contains parliament's views on the revision of the long-term budget for 2014-2020. in the long term, i believe that the overall agricultural budget should be reduced so that agriculture becomes more market-oriented. nevertheless, in this report i have voted against reducing the appropriations for the agricultural budget because it would create too much uncertainty for those who receive the funds if the budget were reduced during the agreed programming period. i have also voted against further funding for the iter research project, which i believe has already been over-budgeted without showing any concrete results.
‒ we voted against the report on the revision of the multiannual budget because we cannot support the european parliament's demands for a higher budget, looser budgetary rules and taxation rights for the eu. increased spending at eu level will not solve the problems facing europe. instead, it is important to focus on developing and preserving the single market, deepening trade relations with other parts of the world and pursuing structural reforms to strengthen europe's competitiveness. to do so, it is crucial that we prioritise eu spending and reallocate funds to areas that help us achieve these goals. higher taxes, more spending at eu level, looser budgetary requirements and new eu taxes do not solve any of europe's challenges, but risk creating new ones. for the future, it is important that the eu invests in research and innovation, digitalisation and growth creation, and infrastructure that connects our continent. subsidies to old factories, to farming and fishing fleets around europe, on the other hand, do not contribute to growth and new jobs. in this context, the revision of the long-term budget lacks the right priorities to contribute aggressively to growth and competitiveness.
- i've put my voice down. the report contains a number of good proposals on how to combat tax evasion, such as: public registers of beneficial ownership of companies, blacklisting of tax havens, sanctions against non-cooperative tax jurisdictions, measures to prevent abuse of patent boxes (intellectual property rights), a code of conduct for banks. however, the report also advocates a common consolidated corporate tax base in the eu (ccctb). i am opposed to this, because it helps to give the eu power over tax policy and is part of a strategy for a federal eu state. that's why i'm gonna lower my voice.
‒ in the report of the committee of inquiry into tax evasion, i have voted against the introduction of a global business register. i believe that such a decision must be preceded by a proper assessment of the effects it may have.
‒ we have voted in favour of the european parliament's views on the commission's work programme for 2017. it is important that the eu focuses on the single market. it must not break down, but must evolve. it is also important to build security in our neighbourhood and to deepen trade relations with other parts of the world. it is also important that the eu does not interfere in the small matters, which we decide better at national level, or at local and regional level. we oppose the discussion of transferring more power to the eu, including by developing a social pillar that transfers parts of labour market policy to the eu level, or other proposals that in the long term risk turning the eu into a transfer union, as well as the demands for budgetary increases and attempts to give the eu tax rights.
in writing. ‒ it is important that we clearly oppose the resumption of whaling by japan, as this resolution expresses. it is important to me that in the negotiation of free trade agreements, issues such as human rights, environmental aspects and animal welfare standards are also raised. however, we will not succeed in international negotiations if we present these as ultimatums in the negotiations. i therefore think it is important that the negotiations on a free trade agreement with japan continue.
- i have lowered my voice. the resolution calls for the commission to stop the delegated decision on an eu guarantee to the european investment bank against losses on loans and loan guarantees for projects outside the eu, as regards belarus. it is very important that the resolution expresses grave concern at belarus' lack of respect for human rights, the rule of law and democratic principles. but by easing some of the sanctions and opening up a parliamentary dialogue, we hope that this will help to further democratize and improve the political and economic development of the country's inhabitants. i therefore choose to abstain.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by thanking mrs mogherini. i think you're doing a splendid job, and i'd like to send you a big message of encouragement for continued good work. it's very important. and i agree, i think it is a shame that we are so few in this chamber when we are talking about such essential matters as respect for human rights. i would also like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr andrej, a colleague whom i greatly respect and who i believe has shown great sensitivity in our cooperation on these matters, and also thank the other colleagues, of course, for this joint motion for a report which we are voting on tomorrow and which contains the european parliament's recommendations to the council for the september general assembly. the un is the largest body we have today to act for peace, security and human rights globally. it is therefore very important that the eu is involved in building a un that can act effectively within the three pillars of the un: peace and security, development and human rights. a key element of peace and security work is ensuring the implementation of resolution 1325 and resolution 2242 on the inclusion of women in peace and conflict resolution. i've got two and a half minutes. if women are left out of the negotiating table, we will never achieve a lasting solution. i was told two and a half minutes. so i have to fight for this because i have prepared for two and a half minutes and it's not fair. yes, i will short ok. yes, i will shorten, because i also took some time to ask if there was a translation. ok, by the way. it is now 20 years since the beijing declaration was adopted and it is high time to put it into practice. as regards the un's work on development, it is important to ensure access to sexual and reproductive health, as this contributes to reducing infant and maternal mortality. safe abortion for victims of rape during war and conflict is central to women, and to the whole of society, being able to heal and rebuild after conflict. this should also be a central part of the un development policy. i want parliament to send clear recommendations to the council to work against violence and discrimination against lgbt people and to ensure that all laws discriminating against or discriminating against lgbt people are abolished among un members. i am deeply concerned today about the negative development in respect for human rights. i want to see an eu that stands up for the equal value of all people, and i hope that we can adopt this report tomorrow by a large majority and show that the eu has muscle when it comes to human rights.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the commission and the presidency for responding so quickly to the socialist group's request for this whistleblower debate. it's incredibly important. silencing people who have the energy and the civil courage to react to and expose crime and corruption and serious misconduct and irregularities they should not be punished. they should be rewarded, they should be celebrated. it's completely upside down. they must be protected by law and, in line with the taxe2 report we voted on earlier today, we are asking the commission to propose as soon as possible a clear legal framework guaranteeing a wide range of whistleblower protection for both the private and public sectors. we have now started so well with quick reactions, so we are now also hoping for quick proposals on which we can take a position in this house. we are very much looking forward to the concrete results of the abuses that we have all been talking about here and that we must do something about. something radical.
mr president, i would like to thank you. welcome to the commission. over 80 million people in europe live with a disability, and for many this means fewer opportunities to live the life they want to live. it is against this background that the european parliament's proposal to follow up anti-discrimination legislation and to meet the requirements of a european accessibility law should also be seen. for this to become a reality, we need more hard facts about the living conditions of the disabled. in particular, a broader and deeper commitment from all member states is needed. a concrete proposal that we could implement at eu level is to open up existing eu programmes to citizens with disabilities, such as the erasmus+ programme. in the field of employment, there are a number of incentive and support programmes for the conditions and establishment of disabled people. it is not enough, but it is important that it exists, because this often means that other non-disabled people also get better and more humane working environments. so we all serve as citizens of society or as employees of a company. we all benefit from a social construction based on the idea that everyone has rights and that everyone is needed. whether we are young or old, whether we have a visible or invisible disability, or simply are part of europe's ageing population. thank you for your work, helga.
- i've lowered my voice. the european parliament makes its recommendations before the sessions of the un general assembly. there are many good writings on acting for peaceful solutions in conflict countries, working on prevention, emphasising the role of the un in global peace efforts, and more. but the resolution also calls for the eu to have a seat on the security council, mentions only islamist terrorism, supports the eu's repressive refugee and migration policies by linking aid and external relations with closing borders, contains support for the eu's common foreign and security policy and vague statements about eu combat groups. i am therefore abstaining on these motions.
‒ i voted in favour of the objection to the authorisation of health claims on energy drinks, as i consider them to be misleading and encourage increased consumption. it is not primarily the caffeine in energy drinks that is unhealthy, but the sugar that is associated with, among other things, obesity and diabetes. but health claims on food require that the whole contents be considered, not just individual substances. in this case, this is particularly problematic, since one of the main target groups for these products is children and young people. i do not think that the sale of energy drinks should be banned altogether, but only that claims aimed at increasing consumption should also take into account negative aspects. i hope that the commission will complete its task of developing nutrition profiles to improve the use of health claims as soon as possible.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me start by thanking this house, and in particular the two rapporteurs, for their supportive work on these two important files. starting with the langen report, i am very glad that this house shares our commitment to promoting a more market—oriented, flexible and decentralised energy system providing the right investment signals for the energy transition. ultimately we need a system that puts prosperity and the decarbonisation of our economy at its very heart, and our review of market design rules will be key to that end. on the one hand, thanks to the three consecutive legislative packages, we have introduced competition to varying degrees in different markets and more cross-border flows of electricity. but, on the other hand, we have not yet managed to adapt our market framework sufficiently to the challenges that decarbonisation, and in particular the massive roll-out of variable renewable generation, have brought along. adapting our energy system to the new challenges will require action on at least four fronts. first, we have to ensure that the new market design will work for consumers by making them more active market participants. innovative and smart technologies are available but they are not properly used in many cases because the right regulatory framework is not there. wholesale and retail markets must be more closely linked, giving consumers access to a wider choice of products, and consumers must be able to market their flexibility by removing obstacles for aggregators to enter the market. second, we need electricity markets to give the right investment incentives for a successful energy transition by strengthening price signals. this means the price must be able to rise when demand is high or generation is scarce. constraints on pricing must be removed, as a matter of the first order, so as to reward flexibility. it is in this context that our reforms will be aimed at promoting shorter markets. the integration of the european union—wide intraday and cross—border balancing markets must be significantly accelerated. third, a more integrated energy market will also require us to find new ways of deepening our cooperation across borders on all levels. but full market integration will also require the seamless cooperation of transmission system operators (tsos) at operational level, and we will need to look at ways of strengthening regional tso cooperation based on existing approaches. likewise, more cooperation between regulators will be needed to match closer tso cooperation and this includes reviewing the role of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer). lastly, while the aim of this exercise is to strengthen the internal market, public policy interventions are likely to remain a part of the reality. we will therefore need a stronger framework to ensure that such measures are compatible with the internal market. the most urgent issue is dealing with the generation adequacy policies that we see emerging in a number of member states. in many cases these follow a purely national logic and focus exclusively on introducing measures to remunerate national generation capacities, without taking account of the benefits of market integration. this is not a viable approach and, if left untouched, it seriously risks distorting the internal energy market. that is why we will propose a european or regional framework for capacity remuneration mechanisms. the main purpose of such a framework will be offer a common approach to assess the adequacy of energy systems. from the commission’s point of view, it is crucial that such an assessment takes into account the contribution of capacity across the border to security of supply. likewise, when a capacity mechanism is introduced, such cross-border capacity, as well as demand response, must be able to participate. as a principle, this is already the case but with our proposals it must become a reality. last but not least, let me pick up on another key point mentioned in the report. it is all well and good to update our market design, but we must absolutely commit ourselves to ensuring the effective implementation of the system legislation. that will continue to be a priority for the commission. we will of course look at the report in detail as we prepare our proposals and i look forward to coming back to this house to present them later this year. turning now to the gierek report on heating and cooling, this report highlights the fact that this sector could be an absolute game changer when it comes to energy security, economic growth and reaching our energy and climate targets. the report places emphasis on the ‘energy efficiency first’ principle and the push for renewables to replace fossil fuels. it focuses on building renovation and the deployment of modern and smart technologies and systems, and highlights the need to reinforce the capacities of citizens, industries and public authorities through better information, awareness, training and education, research and innovation and targeted capacity—building initiatives. these all go in the direction of the commission. let me remind you that heating and cooling in our buildings and industry account for half of european union energy consumption and are largely powered by fossil fuels. seventy-five percent of our buildings are energy inefficient and are mostly fitted with old boilers with low efficiency rates. that is why our study focused on removing barriers to decarbonisation in buildings and industry. we need to link up heating and cooling to electricity networks and to renewable energy more effectively. that will reduce costs for consumers and provide storage for valuable energy. our market design proposals will provide the flexibility and demand response to make that happen, and our upcoming review of the energy performance of buildings directive will prepare the ground for making buildings smart and ready for the new solutions. under the revised renewable energies directive, we will be aiming at further integrating renewable energies of all types in this sector, but we also need to speed up renovation rates. our implementation work, combined with the upcoming review of the energy performance of buildings directive and the energy efficiency directive, will strengthen the drive to replace inefficient boilers faster and incentivise renovations in multi—apartment buildings. to do that we also need to make the right financing available. the good news is that we have started to do that through the european fund for strategic investments and we will back that up with an initiative to help facilitate access to new innovative funding mechanisms. both of these reports highlight how important it is that we get on with building the energy union that this house has supported since day one. the reports in our debate here today are a solid basis from which we can get to work on the whole range of legislative files that are coming up in the next weeks and months.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled an opinion. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. in the climate policy debate, we usually talk about emissions from industry, electricity generation or transport, but the fact is that one of the biggest sources of emissions is heating and cooling. almost 50% of the energy we use in the eu is used for this purpose, and 75% of it comes from fossil sources. to remedy this, district heating is an invincible tool - something that sweden also happens to be an excellent example of. despite being a large and sparsely populated country, 90 percent of all multi-family homes are connected to district heating, and there are no fossil fuels at all. as we heard in the debate, however, the conditions vary enormously in different parts of europe. that is why, in my work on this strategy in the committee on the environment, i have focused on the fact that the eu should not be a detail manager or lock itself into a specific solution. because then we'll never be able to succeed. another thing that is almost as important is to see the potential of biomass from the forest to generate district heating and also to dare to see the possibilities of energy recycling, because if we start fighting it, the way many people now want, then we are stuck in fossil fuels.
mr president, i would like to thank you. if we are to succeed in the green transition of europe's energy system, the electricity market needs to be organised in such a way that we use resources more efficiently. our historical national boundaries are rarely the best geographical division for our energy markets, which could be allowed to function better with new geographical divisions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy market is not affected by the crisis. when the sun does not shine in one country, wind power can be used in another, or water power in a third. meeting the climate challenge requires an energy market and its design that produces more renewable energy. that's what we greens are fighting for.
mr president, heating and cooling represent the largest share in the eu’s energy demand. if you want that demand not to ruin the climate goals we set, we will have to solve the existing problems. as an example, two thirds of the eu’s buildings were built when energy efficiency requirements were non-existent, and nearly half of buildings have individual boilers that were installed before 1992. that is why improving the heating and cooling sector all around the eu is going to play a crucial role in reaching the goals of the paris agreement but, in order to achieve that, eu member states should be pushed to do more, to do something concrete, to support concretely innovation, energy prosumers, households, local enterprises that are constantly monitoring their energy consumption, that produce energy they sell back to the grid. if there is concrete support for these rising stars of the european union, then maybe we can achieve the goal that we set; otherwise it is just empty talk which will end in a surprise.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the upcoming elections in bosnia and herzegovina have led some politicians to push for a referendum on the day of unity in one of the country's two entities, republika srpska. this is despite the fact that the bosnian supreme court has declared it to be contrary to the country's secular constitution. i have some limited understanding of political campaigns in the pursuit of voters, but playing with such things in bosnia can end very badly. this referendum not only challenges the country's sovereignty, security and constitution, but it spreads fear of armed conflict. we can't let this flame flare up again and send this country back to the '90s. no elections, no voters are worth jeopardizing the hard-won peace in the balkans. the commission must therefore act. if we do not show now that peace and stability are not negotiable, we can never again ask others to do so. the commission must demand that this illegal vote be stopped immediately.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the g20 summit had a very ambitious title: towards an innovative, vital, connected and inclusive world economy. i was glad that global leaders understood that the vast challenges of today require such ambition. unfortunately, the good news stayed with the headline. the final declaration does not contain a single binding commitment, but rather is proof that the 20 largest economies do not know how to agree on how to solve today's challenges. how else is the following sentence to be interpreted: we support efforts to promote voluntary knowledge diffusion and technology transfer on mutually agreed terms and conditions. i mean it! not a word at all about who, when, how, with whom. we live in an age of enormous populism. we desperately need growth to move us out of the xenophobic patch we're stuck in. we need to deal with the refugee crisis, syria, russia, climate, epidemics, racism and the only thing the 20 largest economies agree on is voluntary knowledge diffusion. i mean it! colleagues, the g20 summit demonstrates the lack of common denominators and shows that the eu and g20 leaders are not the adults of the mission. no wonder voters are voting for populists who promise gold and green forests. we need concrete actions, measurable results, reasonable and thoughtful responses to today's challenges and the determination to meet them. it's the only way to win the trust of the voters.
madam president, the g20 meeting was held at a time that is more uncertain and more risk-laden than we have seen for decades. it could have been an important meeting in this perspective, but very little came out of it. and what came out of it did so because all the crucial problems that the global world order is facing were avoided. nothing was really said about syria, with its global impact not only on refugees but also on stability and security. nothing was said about ukraine, with the breaking of international law and international agreement that is undermining the rules underpinning world stability. nothing was said about the need to fulfil western sanctions against russia, which is breaking international rules. the conflicts on the islands in the south china sea were also avoided, as were, in reality, the issues about obligations for the countries to fulfil to combat climate change. nothing was said, either, about the need to enhance legal certainty for investments in the global order. we are today facing the undermining of respect for international rules. we see this very much in russia and in china, who say they will not follow international court decisions. the next time there is a g20 meeting it will be important for the european union to take the lead in restoring legal certainty and respect for international rules, because otherwise these meetings have no real meaning. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i think it could have been a good idea also to mention what has happened in turkey in two ways: first of all, to strongly react against any sort of attempt to have a coup d'état, because what could have followed that would have been a civil war with a real disaster, even more than the disaster we are facing. secondly, i think the importance of turkey coming back to full respect for civil society and independence could have been stressed. i think both things should have been said, but the g20 avoided things that were crucial and i do not think that, in the time we are living in, we can avoid the complicated issues. we need to deal with them, hopefully together, but at least together with democratic nations.
in writing. we social democrats voted today in favour of the report on a new market model for the energy market. the report highlights several good points and a new market model for the energy market is necessary in view of the developments in the field of renewable and flexible energy. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks of chemical pollution caused by certain dangerous substances. we see no need for harmonised eu action in this area, and it may threaten the independence of local, municipally owned energy companies with their own production. eu rules already exist, which provide common rules for member states in the field of water activities, and the rules of the internal market promote competition. we don't see the need for any further action. if new measures are warranted, then there are other major problems to be addressed in the electricity market. we also voted against a report on what are allegedly better market-oriented so-called investment promotion measures to promote renewable energy. the generalised wording is unclear and leaves open the interpretation of what is to be considered as different investment measures.
in writing. ‒ i do share the rapporteurs approach that a ‘strengthened european internal market in electricity is possible’. indeed, lots have been done in that regards. today, new electricity suppliers can enter member states’ markets, while both industrial and domestic consumers are now free to choose their own suppliers, something that was completely unthinkable some decades ago. however, the way for a complete, full-fledged internal energy market is still long, and further steps are needed. we need to continue pushing eu member states for a full implementation of the third energy package. full and correct implementation of such legislation will bring more consumer protection, enhance the unbundling of energy networks and promote a better functioning of retails markets. however, the rapport is a good step forward and i welcome it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which highlights the principle that macro-regions are frameworks for cooperation activities and developing synergies between different eu instruments. alpine regions can be considered as a symbol of european integration since it exists a long lasting tradition of cooperation, with a number of networks already in place, and the ambition of this strategy should strengthen this solidarity. experience shows that success highly depends on commitment. we therefore also need strong active involvement of all regional and national partners to fully exploit the potential highlighted in the report.
‒ today the european parliament voted on its position in the commission's ongoing work on what is known in the eu context as 'work-life balance'. the report makes very far-reaching demands for supranationality, not least in the area of family policy. of course, it is important that a pregnant woman is offered good insurance during her pregnancy, that discrimination in the workplace is combated and that there are well-functioning parental insurance systems. but this is not a matter that should be left to the eu. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. we need to improve the balance between work and family life in the eu and give women and men equal opportunities to combine career and family. however, it is up to the member states to design the systems and conditions which make this possible, in particular leave for working parents. i could not support the report because it calls on the commission to propose maternity leave, paternity leave and leave for carers at eu level. in addition, the report proposes that we should decide on certain types of tax policy, minimum wages and social security systems at eu level, all of which should be decided at national level. we should raise awareness, exchange best practice and encourage member states to pursue a modern gender equality policy that does not see women as the sole parent responsible for childcare. we must focus on combating discrimination and stereotypes against women and girls both in and outside the workplace. we still have a long way to go, but it is not by introducing family and labour market policies from brussels that we will achieve equality in europe.
‒ i voted against this resolution because, apart from the fact that these are key issues which are of enormous importance to me at national level, it is a typical example of a policy which should be made as close as possible to the parties concerned.
in writing. today we swedish social democrats voted in favour of the report on the creation of favourable labour market conditions for work-life balance. the report is good in its overall view of an eu where the labour market has been modernised and has become increasingly digital. while we see opportunities, we also believe that in the face of a modernised labour market, caution is needed to avoid reproducing destructive gender roles through, for example, atypical forms of employment in which women are now overrepresented. that's why we voted against items that we believe would cement traditional gender roles. we voted against the proposals that part of parental leave should be transferable. since very few men take parental leave, we believe that instead we need to strengthen parental leave to encourage more men to take advantage of this opportunity. we also abstained on the vote on the item which raised the 'care points' for care of relatives. reducing the gender pension gap and ensuring fair pensions requires other types of measures, such as increased employment and the introduction of the equal pay principle, which would reduce the pay gap. in addition to the written comments, we believe that the report contains a number of concrete comments. the report, in its holistic approach, contains well-founded proposals on combating child poverty, safe forms of employment and increasing gender equality, all of which are moving in the right direction.
in writing. we need to improve the balance between work and family life in the eu and give women and men equal opportunities to combine career and family. however, it is up to the member states to design the systems and conditions which make this possible, in particular leave for working parents. i could not support the report because it calls on the commission to propose maternity leave, paternity leave and leave for carers at eu level. in addition, the report proposes that we should decide on certain types of tax policy, minimum wages and social security systems at eu level, all of which should be decided at national level. we should raise awareness, exchange best practice and encourage member states to pursue a modern gender equality policy that does not see women as the sole parent responsible for childcare. we must focus on combating discrimination and stereotypes against women and girls both in and outside the workplace. we still have a long way to go, but it is not by introducing family and labour market policies from brussels that we will achieve equality in europe.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, let me briefly reflect on some of the remarks that have been made. first of all, let me be very clear. if any information pertaining to this issue is brought to our attention, we will carefully study it and reflect on it and take a position on it. we do not disregard any information. if it is academic information, give it to us and we will analyse it and give our point of view. secondly, let me reflect for a moment on the nature of the rule of law: why is it so important? it is because we have learned through history, through a very painful history in europe, that in order to have a democratic pluriform society functioning and the rights of everyone respected, we need the virtuous tripod of democracy, rule of law and full respect for human rights. you cannot give in to the temptation to use one against the other: all three are equally important. and, as an essential part of this, the independence of the judiciary is of extreme importance for respect for individual rights and also for the functioning of our form of market economy. this is nothing to do with politics. politics can lead the electorate to make a different choice, and then governments make different programmes go in a different direction, but they need to stay within the remit of the rule of law, which is full respect for the position of the judiciary in our member states. so, then, this brings me to a number of very precise questions that mr legutko clearly does not want to go into. if you accept my premise that the independence of the judiciary is an essential part of respect for the rule of law, how is it that in poland, the executive can choose whether it wants to publish the rulings of the highest court in the land according to whether it likes the rulings or not? (applause) that is not in line with the principle of the independence of the judiciary. mr legutko said, just for you, mr president, that what i am saying is not true, but let me remind him that several rulings of the constitutional tribunal have still not been published by the polish government. that is a fact, mr legutko. secondly, let me also add that if a parliament decides lawfully to elect members of a court, then the fact that such a lawful election has been followed by other elections does not entitle you to use the new composition of the parliament to undo a legal decision by the previous parliament. so these are the issues we are discussing in a constructive way with the polish government. let me end on one thing which is also a bit personal, i have to say. my professional life, from the very start as a student, was focused on bringing an end to the divide in europe and bringing down communist dictatorship in half of europe. the polish people have achieved that. it is one of the biggest victories in european history, and i will not be accused of acting against the polish people. this is a dispute between a tribunal and a government, nothing more and nothing less. but let us remind ourselves of the beauty of the victory of democracy and the rule of law against oppression and communism, and let us not forget that this is the true, true achievement of our common european dream. (applause)
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i thank all those who intervened today. i will not comment on those interventions but rather i want to reassure you that i will take back with me the strong interest shown in this house for what is, i hope, our common objective of upholding values on which the european union is built and, above all, the rule of law. i take note of everything. i have nothing to add to my earlier statement on behalf of the council. i also thank commission vice—president timmermans for an update by the commission on poland’s stance in its dialogue, and many thanks to the commission for reassuring us of its readiness to continue this dialogue. we, as the council, will follow this and further steps attentively.
in writing. – the eu has to promote human rights and defend the rule of law. we have let hungary under viktor orbán slide down the path to autocracy. the combat for human rights and respect for the rule of law must be applied systematically. an article 7 procedure should be launched against both poland and hungary. human rights can never be cast aside in pursuit of the rule of law, or vice versa. today women are denied the right to their bodies in poland and in other eu countries. recent initiatives taken in poland are aimed at restricting sexual and reproductive rights even more by completely banning abortion. article 1 of the charter of fundamental rights states the inviolability of human dignity and the right to physical integrity. the charter clearly states that we women are to be considered as individuals in our own right, free to make our own choices concerning our life, sexuality and health. i call on the european union to take a clear stand: the developments in poland, when it comes to fundamental rights for women as well as the rule of law, are in breach of the values of this union.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would also like to begin by condemning the attempted military coup in turkey this summer. whatever i think about the way the turkish president is running the country, he is elected by the people and that should be respected. i also condemn all forms of violence. both the violence committed by president erdogan's opponents and the psychological and physical violence the president now exercises against all his opponents. the methods we've been testing this summer seem more medieval than 21st century. i cannot accept journalists being arrested, judges and teachers being sacked, travel bans being imposed, etc., etc. the president is crossing borders in his pursuit of dissent. most recently, he has taken over 28 municipalities that are also governed by democratically elected officials. 24 kurdish mayors and four from the gülen movement. he himself shows no respect for the rules of the democratic game but expects to be respected. it is now more important than ever that we show that we are clearly on the side of democracy in turkey, and democracy also includes respect for human rights.
mr president, let us be clear: the failed coup on 15 july 2016 was an attack against democracy, in which 265 people lost their lives in front of tanks. i regret that the eu was slow in denouncing the coup and in supporting the elected government. it is imperative now to stand by the people of turkey and show understanding for the trauma they went through. it is also important that the rule of law and human rights are fully respected, while bringing those responsible to justice, and, of course, important to remain firm on freedom of expression. but it is by engaging with turkey that we will achieve results towards democracy. by just condemning and criticising emotionally we are adding fuel to the fire and polarising people. it is time to intensify dialogue with turkey on all issues of common concern. that is why it is urgent to relaunch the joint commission with turkey, which has been blocked for two years, on an open agenda post coup. the best way to advance reforms in the judiciary and fundamental rights is to open chapters 23 and 24. turkey is not backing away from the migration deal and neither should we. we should not punish children and women because of erdogan. i welcome the commission’s decision to disburse meal cards for the three million refugees who are welcome in turkey but not everywhere in europe. visa liberalisation should be a merit-based process with no double standards against turkey. again, we have to engage with turkey to break the deadlock on the terror law and move forward. turkey is a crucial partner for us. we need to restore trust and to build bridges. we cannot afford to let the people feel let down. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i said in my intervention very clearly that the rule of law and human rights should be respected and that we have to remain firm on freedom of expression. i did not say that there is rule of law at the moment in everything that is happening in turkey. what i am saying is that, in order to achieve results in a country that is absolutely crucial for the european union, and to make sure that the people of turkey do not feel let down by europe, we need to engage in dialogue. by just criticising, attacking and condemning a proud nation we will not achieve results. will that make it more democratic? no.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, according to the unhcr, more than 85% of the 60 million refugees in the world live in developing countries. that should be kept in mind when we are discussing the 1.5 million refugees who made it last year to this continent. migration is a global issue and therefore i am very happy that the united nations has now decided to call for the summit next week. i am personally happy to lead the libe delegation there. i look forward to working closely with the commission and european players in ensuring its success. europe has a proud history of granting asylum and defending the fundamental rights of migrants. during these last years, however, we have seen how rising tides of xenophobia and populism have also had a detrimental effect on the european debate. we have unfortunately seen how principles of asylum law, such as the respect of non-refoulement, the right to family reunification and the right to apply for asylum have come under pressure in the european union as well. during the summit i hope that we can once again unite around the principles of humanity and tolerance that were the basis for the creation of the geneva convention and other international standards for the protection of refugees. we must also be much better at tackling the root causes that force people to flee in the first place. but, as long as there are human beings who need protection, those of us who are lucky enough to live in places that people flee to rather than from, need to take our responsibilities seriously. again i encourage all of us in the global approach to migration and i am happy that we are, as a delegation, participating in the un summit. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i would respond that we are in the process, it is work in progress that we are now trying to shape up a good policy for migration and refugees, where every member state has to take its part of the responsibility. i am personally the rapporteur for the dublin regulation that is under reform at this moment, and i am happy to convey a message that europe prevails, a humanitarian continent, a humanitarian union, and that the good principles still do prevail even if they are challenged from time to time.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. i had hoped that we would have had both a debate and a resolution today or this week, so that we could also give our input to the un meeting from this parliament. but a debate is better than nothing. when the great floods of refugees from the syrian war began to arrive in europe, we stood with our pants down. there was no preparedness and it also turned out that some countries showed no solidarity whatsoever either with the refugees or with other member states. we tried to solve urgent problems with poorly prepared ad hoc measures. that's why this un meeting is so important. we must solve this problem together. after all, some 60 million people around the world are refugees, not just from war, but also from poverty, political oppression, climate change. if we do not seriously address the root causes, they will only increase. those fleeing poverty are not less worthy than those fleeing war, but they have no legal protection. these are the people that the member states now want to send back home quickly. to continued poverty, to continued oppression, to continued drought. they will not disappear just because we choose to accept only those whom we are obliged to accept under the geneva convention. the risk is that we will create large groups of undocumented people in europe and in the world. in fact, most people leave their homes not because they want to, but because they have to. if we are serious, we must start by helping people not to migrate when they do not want to - both those fleeing poverty and those fleeing war.
madam president, i would like to thank you. never before have we seen the migration of people to europe that is happening now. attempts to stop it will not succeed, because you are wrong about the root cause of why it is happening now. it is no coincidence that so many migrants end up in sweden and germany. our preferential welfare systems, combined with incompetent leaders who unwittingly welcome the whole world into our countries, have created this crisis. now we in europe have instead found ourselves in a situation where we are being blackmailed by turkey. we are also proposing idiotic coercive mechanisms and taking away the right of member states to decide for themselves on immigration. you talk about solidarity all the time, but we in sweden know what your solidarity means. we always take care of your problems in the end and pay the most to the eu budget per capita of all. it's time for you to start thinking about the real refugees, on the ground, without confusing them with economic migrants.
madam president, the democratic development in tunisia represents one of the few successful examples of democratic transition in the wake of the arab spring. unfortunately, after the terrorist attacks in tunisia which had a tremendous impact on the country’s economy, this parliament did not fully deliver on the promised solidarity. we should have fully supported macro-financial assistance and additional exports of olive oil in order to secure growth. anyhow, we supported the eu-tunisia free trade agreement and that help was needed in the short term. now the eu must not miss the opportunity to step up in terms of financial support and technical assistance for tunisia to cope with the political, economic and social needs in the medium and long term. trade openness and structural economic reforms aimed at supporting long-term employment should be explored in order to enable the tunisian economy to achieve tangible results. i hope that parliament will not, once again, let the tunisian people down and that we will, together this time, fully deliver the promised solidarity.
the committee on transport and tourism has tabled an opinion. president. - the debate is closed. the committee on transport has of course discussed social dumping in the transport sectors: shipping and ports, trains, air transport, but above all road transport. it is also where we say that monitoring and control of the existing rules is important and must be maintained. the member states and the eu share responsibility. we can do more at eu level. that is why we say that we want the rapid introduction of smart tachographs which, with the help of gps technology, can make controls more efficient. we also want to create an electronic and integrated operator register. we want access to all relevant national registers. if a vehicle is checked on the road in a country, the person checking the vehicle shall be able to immediately connect to the relevant driving licence register, obtain information on the operator and the vehicle inspection record to check the technical status. we need to have transparency in those systems. we also want a common road authority to facilitate monitoring and control and coordination by the member states. all that we are proposing is to bring order to an industry which is important for the common market and to put an end to the exploitation of people which is taking place today.
madam president, i would like to thank you. in the agricultural sector we see very great concerns in sweden, particularly with regard to social dumping. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. this is largely due to the cabotage rules that allow this kind of cheating. it is not possible to kill the opportunities for domestic enterprises to carry on a healthy business by being a member of the eu. the commission must act vigorously to protect the businesses of the member states. the controls must be effective. the rules must be simple and easy to follow, and the posting of workers directive must be revised. the letterbox companies must be fought. serious businesses must be given a chance to survive. if the eu cannot give the companies of the member countries a chance to survive, what is the value of being a member of the eu? opponents of this proposal may change their minds when their own countries are hit by similar competition with unfair means.
madam president, i would like to thank you. thank you, commissioner, for being here. we have a serious problem in europe today. instead of strengthening each other, we're competing to get to the bottom quickly. social dumping through low wages and poor working conditions is not just a problem for individual workers, for individual drivers, construction workers, nurses in fact almost every part of the labour market. no, it is not just this, it is also a problem of democracy. people lose faith in the future and in the eu when people in this room allow social dumping and refuse to plug holes in legislation. well, that confirms that image, too. commissioner thyssen has taken an important step towards law and order and fair play with the proposal to amend the posting directive. it's very important. thank you very much. guillaume balas has now, with a great deal of work and very good cooperation with others, produced a very important report on social dumping. thank you for that! now all this has to be taken out of parliament and into reality.
mr president, i would like to thank you. tomorrow we will decide the future of a trade agreement between the eu and the countries of southern africa. it is a very important agreement which removes virtually all eu customs duties against these countries, but allows the african trading partners to remove their customs duties gradually and in the sensitive product areas not at all. this is very important for regional integration in these african countries. the rules of origin are simplified and trade barriers between african countries are reduced, which has been one of the greatest obstacles to development. this is important because free trade has historically proven to be the best tool for lifting people and countries out of poverty. nevertheless, it seems that there is a risk that a majority of the members of this house will vote against the agreement. however, not only is there a risk of losing all these benefits of the agreement, but there is also a risk that poor countries such as swaziland, namibia and botswana will face higher tariffs against the eu and face the full eu customs wall when their current trade regime with the eu expires in december. yet, many are actually considering it. it is an unholy alliance between those who say that the agreement threatens european production, particularly agricultural production, and those who say exactly the same thing, but that it threatens agricultural production in africa. one of them is wrong. i wonder who are the worst of these groups of protectionists. i have never met anyone who calls themselves a protectionist in this house, but i have met many who say they want to protect one or the other. i have concluded, after careful consideration, that it is probably those who are here tonight and tomorrow when they vote who will say that they are voting against the agreement in order to protect african countries. the members of this house claim to know better than these african countries themselves. this agreement between democracies has been approved by their parliaments and ratified by these countries. yet, it is said that one can sit here and judge and think that it is bad for them, even though they want it. it is not just protectionism, it is neo-imperialism. this time, neo-imperialism comes from the left and is most dangerous. i therefore hope that we will vote unanimously in favour of this agreement tomorrow. africa and europe need it.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the state of the union is under criticism, despite what you are saying, mr juncker. we are seeing a union that is cracking at an ever-accelerating rate and losing more and more trust in the electorate. the biggest lack of trust was in england, which we now know after the election. i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the british people as they break free from the increasingly oppressive yoke of the european union. i look forward to sweden's continued good relations with the united kingdom. the commission is now advocating defence cooperation, i.e. a joint military force. as you know, sweden has always been a neutral country. it has also enabled us to play the role of credible negotiator in several crises. this is now about to end when we are forced into military cooperation. the lack of understanding of the problems will further erode the confidence of the electorate. at the moment, the eu can be compared to a sick patient who can only be offered pain relief for the moment.
in writing. we swedish social democrats welcome the fact that the stated objective of the economic partnership agreement between the eu and the sadc contracting states (epa sadc) is to contribute to sustainable development and long-term poverty reduction. the fact that the sadc epa is an asymmetrical agreement which takes account of the different circumstances of the contracting parties and enables them to protect sensitive sectors is of the utmost importance to us, together with the reference to the fundamental principles of human rights of the cotonou agreement. we can see that the sadc epa has the potential to make a positive contribution to the social and economic development of the countries in the long term, which is why we chose to support the agreement. we would like to stress, however, that the automatic abolition of customs duties is not a guarantee of positive developments. in order to ensure that the intended benefits of the agreement are shared by the population and contribute to promoting regional integration, the proper follow-up of both the implementation of the agreement and its longer-term consequences in the region is required. it is therefore essential to have in place instruments and procedures to ensure that proper follow-up is carried out in the contracting countries. the european commission must now deliver on its promise that compliance with the sustainability chapter and respect for human rights will be carefully evaluated and that civil society will play a very active role in this follow-up process.
‒ today parliament adopted a resolution on developments in poland. the resolution, tabled by a cross-bloc consensus, underlined the importance of guaranteeing the rule of law and the rule of law in all member states. i voted in favour of the resolution and i agree with the concerns expressed in the text. however, i voted against a number of additional motions on, among other things, migration and abortion. although i share the conclusion that poland needs to take greater responsibility for europe's common migration challenge, for example, the subject of the resolution proceedings was the rule of law in poland. adding further comments would risk weakening parliament's message.
in writing. ‒ the reason i chose not to vote on the abortion issues was that there was a very clear majority that would not vote through the resolution if these passages were included. now we have a very broad resolution focusing on constitutional issues in poland and the worrying developments in this area. the abortion laws are highly relevant and should be discussed in another forum.
‒ the report raises several problematic aspects of wage competition and makes proposals which i can support. at the same time, it is denigrating foreign labor and proposing measures that i cannot support. several of them would transfer power from the social partners and from the member states to the eu, and this is in direct contradiction to the principle of subsidiarity. that is why i am voting against several of the measures in the proposal, including a national minimum wage, which would undermine the swedish model. it must not be forgotten that the free movement of labour is also a positive factor. the line advocated in the report, however, leads in its extension to a situation where this is impossible. overall, it is a report in which i support the approach but cannot support the final product. that is why i choose to abstain.
‒ due to a misunderstanding, i inadvertently missed the vote on the entire text. this is a matter of great importance and deserves more attention at national level in each member state. however, it is my firm belief that decisions which affect people so directly should be taken at a level as close as possible to those who are affected by the decisions. that is why i had intended to vote against the text.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the eu, the world's richest and most prosperous continent, chose this spring to make itself available to the blackmail of an increasingly authoritarian turkish government through the so-called turkey statement - not to be confused with the agreement - rather than trying to solve migration policy challenges within the eu on its own. recent events have made it abundantly clear that the whole idea of relinquishing our responsibility for the reception of refugees to a country like turkey was a failed castle in the air, doomed to failure. after hearing ministers from several countries say that similar agreements should be concluded with countries such as nigeria and libya, i hope that we will now put this behind us once and for all and take responsibility instead. of course we will cooperate with countries outside europe, also on migration, but there should be no doubt that we must put in place our own systems in our own countries to assist in a humane and dignified way those who are entitled to international protection. i think we should work together. we do not need more turkish statements, but a functioning european asylum policy, based on solidarity and shared responsibility.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the humanitarian crisis that has arisen in the wake of the war in syria has now been going on for several years. as a way of resolving the unsustainable situation of many refugees in greece and italy, the commission proposed that asylum seekers be relocated to other member states. the governments themselves have agreed to this and have recognised that we must help the thousands of people who are stranded in greece and italy. but in practice, solidarity stops there and very little happens. as of july this year, only 793 people have been relocated from italy and 2 033 from greece. this inactivity is shameful and totally unworthy of one of the richest regions in the world, which the eu actually is. in addition, the commission and the council are now planning to drain the system. it has been proposed that refugees who have arrived directly in other member states should be able to be 'deduced' from the relocation quotas of these countries. if this is to be a reality, i think it will be the final nail in the coffin of the whole relocation system. i and my group therefore support the rapporteur's proposal. member states must wake up and deliver on their promises to give people who have fled for their lives a chance and a better start in the other eu member states. we must see solidarity, and we must think it could have been us.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i have already said a lot of sensible things, but at the same time there is a certain confusion of concepts which i think needs to be clarified. minimum income is not the same as minimum wage. minimum incomes are decided by political assemblies. minimum wages are negotiated between the parties to the labour market. during the crisis years, we have not done much at european level to strengthen trade union rights. rather, we have legislation, and perhaps above all judgments, that erode the ability of trade unions to act. we say a lot, but we do very little. the ilo states the following: collective bargaining is a key means through which employers and their organizations and trade unions can establish fair wages. in the context of the economic crisis, we have seen how countries in europe have restricted trade union rights. at the same time, eurofound says that the countries that are best able to cope with the crisis for each individual citizen are those that are also able to assert trade union rights. it's the way to wealth and wages.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is important that we evaluate how the globalisation fund can benefit more businesses both small and large. one of the issues on which we have unfortunately not been able to agree is the requirement of the number of employees who must be affected in order for the fund to be used. i have a concrete example, namely a food industry in southern sweden, findus in bjuv in skåne. under the current rules, it's uncertain whether we'll be able to mobilize the fund to help the employees of findus. i mean, we have to do something about it. even in cases like this, where so many people are affected, where a whole industry is under pressure, the fund should be able to play a greater role than it does today. we also need to look at how the egf can be used to alleviate the conditions of companies affected by trade conflicts. the commission has previously stated that the fund cannot be mobilised for this purpose. parliament's interpretation is that it can. what does the commission say today? we must be able to agree on the use of the fund. of course, we have also listened to the commissioner for trade, cecilia malmström, who has opened up to such an interpretation. there is talk of cuts in the fund, while malmström thus argues that any negative consequences resulting from trade agreements should be able to be addressed by the fund. i look forward to an answer to that question.
‒ i abstained because, although the text was relatively balanced, there were still a number of uncertainties about its application, which relates to the fact that decisions on similar issues should primarily be taken as closely as possible to those affected by the policy, which is much better done at national and local level than at eu level.
‒ marian harkin has prepared a well-balanced and well-written text which aims primarily to report on the impact of the european globalisation adjustment fund between 2007 and 2014. the reason why i voted against the text was amendment no 36 which called for additional funding of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which is not appropriate until a full evaluation of this fund has been carried out.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. the european globalisation adjustment fund is a clear indication of protectionism. over the last century, it is hard to find systematic evidence for the benefits of protectionism. i firmly believe that fair competence in a context of free markets is the most suitable way to produce wealth for all. i have exceptionally accepted the european globalisation adjustment fund as an emergency measure at time of deep economic crisis. but this time it is meant to be more short-term in its approach, causing a negative impact.
mr president, i would like to thank you. of course we're going to talk about women's rights. we're gonna talk about pay disparities and decision-making, but we're also gonna talk about women's rights to their bodies. it is about human rights, and in this house we often talk about human rights. we're gonna do that, but we're also gonna talk about women's human rights. poland has already been condemned for its repressive abortion policy, and today i think it is important to draw attention to the fact that this is an even more cruel legislation. i think it is important that it be debated and that the members of parliament be informed of what it is really about. we cannot have a europe of equality if women do not have control over their own bodies. it's going to be put to the house and it's going to be debated.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i have had the opportunity to participate in the acp delegation since 2014 when i entered this parliament, and i would like to point out that i think this political dialogue between our countries is very valuable, and that cooperation is positive. but that does not mean that we should be in such a hurry, as we have been in this parliament, to come forward with a report on this right now. as my colleague maria has already said, i think we need to look at this and study it much, much more closely. it is true that we have many other parallel structures besides the acp work, many of which also cover essentially the same regions, and we must ask ourselves whether we are working properly. having these parallel structures is also perceived as very messy by outside actors, but we must also ensure that the good things in the current structure and cooperation do not disappear in the event of any change. i am thinking in particular of the opportunities we have to speak with several regions about issues which concern us all, but not just these regions but also other parts of the world. climate impact is one of those issues that we must discuss very broadly, including in this cooperation.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by reminding you of the very great responsibility that lebanon has taken on for the syrian refugees since the war began. i would have been proud if the countries of europe had taken the same responsibility, if we had also given the refugees residence and work permits, given the children schooling, etc., etc. when 163,000 refugees arrived in sweden last year, our reception systems collapsed. housing, schools, and health care were not enough. we are one of the countries that did receive it, but not all of them. i fully understand that lebanon has the same problem, but their problem is so much bigger. i also understand if lebanon feels we should take on more responsibility. to avoid receiving in europe, we say that we will help on the spot, and that is where the money comes in. even though we've promised a lot of money, a lot of resources, not all of those resources are in place. the study referred to by the commissioner shows that only 23% had, i believe, reached the end. we also want the lebanese authorities to give the refugees residence and work permits when they arrive in lebanon, to send their children to school, etc. and we want to help. but we're gonna look at what we're doing ourselves. we don't actually do the same thing ourselves. we should also make demands on ourselves. the commissioner also raised the problem of losing one's residence permit. when you are without a residence permit, you become undocumented, and when you are undocumented, you dare not let your children go to school because you are afraid that the authorities will find you; you can search for the parents by knowing where the children are. this is a problem that we have not only in lebanon, but also in countries here in europe. it's hard to be undocumented no matter where you live in the world. but the important thing that this is about is to make sure that we don't have these lost generations, perhaps, of refugee children, that the commissioner was talking about. the lack of schooling, which may be the only fixed point in life, also leads to serious health problems for these children in the long run, and we must avoid this at all costs.
mr president, today we cannot stay silent and turn our back on the bloodshed in aleppo. children are being slaughtered, injured and starved. they are trapped and traumatised. more than 100 kids have been killed in aleppo last week by the syrian army and russian air strikes. more than 100 000 children are under siege. we have to strongly condemn the indiscriminate bombing of families and hospitals and the use of illegal weapons. the united nations secretary calls it war crimes. so what can we do? the eu should call for an immediate ceasefire, and i welcome the new humanitarian initiative for aleppo to ensure access to emergency aid, safe passage for rescue workers and the evacuation of the sick and the wounded. the eu must also relaunch negotiations. there is no military solution. the eu should unite in confronting russia with its responsibility as a member of the united nations security council. for russia to be a partner for peace, they must respect humanitarian law and go back to the negotiating table, and those responsible must be held accountable. all member states should increase resettlement for thousands of kids, especially unaccompanied minors, and education. going back to school gives children a sense of normality, a chance for self-sufficiency, and hope for the future. education empowers children, it helps prevent violence, early marriage, forced labour and radicalisation and recruitment. with the intergroup of human rights in the european parliament that i co-chair, we stand united with the children of syria. we fully support the echo/unicef emergency lessons campaign to provide education for children in conflict, and the no lost generation initiative to recruit syrian teachers for syrian children. we fully support the unicef campaign education cannot wait as five years is a lifetime. we urge the eu and the member states to increase efficient funding for education for syrian children. let us raise our voices and invest in children. end violence against the children of syria.
mr president, the eu has committed to reducing the number of chronically undernourished children by at least seven million by 2025 with a nutrition action plan. indeed, progress in hunger reduction has been substantial in spite of the difficult global environment. the proportion of undernourished people in the developing world has dropped from 18 % in the 1990s to 10 % in 2014. however, the path towards the total eradication of hunger will be a long one. if we continue at this tempo, many children, women and those living in poverty will pay the price. that is why more consecrated action is required from us. we need to step up and tackle rising unemployment by creating the conditions for growth. volatile commodity prices, economic recessions and, primarily, political instability and wars. nutrition is an investment for our collective future. here is where the eu has a crucial role, so let’s play it!
mr president, i would like to thank you. we live in a time of paradoxes. it's been said here tonight, but it's sick the way it looks. on the one hand, we have this parliament which can tell us how to reduce food waste. on the other hand, we have nearly 800 million people who suffer from food shortages. we live in a time when we can find out at lightning speed that people are at risk of starvation - i'm thinking of el niño this spring. at the same time, it takes months for the outside world to come together to support and help those affected. i can still see in my mind the starving children and the tired eyes of the children who can no longer play. i now support calls for the commission to take a clearer lead on food security where coordination and long-term thinking are key and also want the commission to respond to what is being done for the el niño affected areas.
in writing. ‒ we believe that prosperity is created through free trade and fair competition. we therefore oppose the european globalisation adjustment fund on principle, which we regard as an expression of protectionism. we have accepted in the past that the fund was used as a purely emergency measure in a time of deep economic crisis, as a way of countering people's sense of hopelessness and the exclusion that follows in the wake of the crisis and that risks further reinforcing the wave of nationalism and xenophobia spreading in europe. however, in the light of the swedish national audit office's analysis, which suggests that the fund does indeed have a negative impact on returning to work, we believe that the fund has lost its legitimacy and should not be used any more.
in writing. – in march this year, finland submitted an application for a financial contribution from the european globalisation fund, as 2035 workers, both from microsoft and from downstream producers, were made redundant and lost their jobs. indeed, one of the biggest challenges the eu and its member states face is managing the downsides of globalisation. every one of us is affected, and we really need to alleviate the situation of people facing the negative effects of globalisation. however, i firmly believe that protectionist measures such as the egf would exacerbate the difficulties we are facing rather than resolving them. what we need in europe today are measures that will create jobs, businesses and start-ups – an active strategy to promote competitiveness, innovation, research, development and new technologies throughout the eu. i usually vote against all applications to the european globalisation fund whatsoever. nevertheless, in current times of a severe economic crisis and rising populism, i chose not to vote against and abstained from voting.
‒ the eu globalisation fund is intended to provide grants to people who have become unemployed following the closure of european companies. the christian democrats are opposed to this fund for two reasons. first, labour market policies and financial support for the unemployed should be decided on, and financed, at national level not at eu level. secondly, the fund's basic idea is that globalisation is something negative - which is not true. i therefore consistently vote against the disbursement of the fund. the alliance also repeatedly pointed out during its term of office against the existence of the fund. for ericsson employees who lose their jobs, this is a personal tragedy, but it is sweden that should take responsibility for supporting them in the transition phase to a new job not the eu.
in writing. ‒ we believe that prosperity is created through free trade and fair competition. we therefore oppose the european globalisation adjustment fund on principle, which we regard as an expression of protectionism. we have accepted in the past that the fund was used as a purely emergency measure in a time of deep economic crisis, as a way of countering people's sense of hopelessness and the exclusion that follows in the wake of the crisis and that risks further reinforcing the wave of nationalism and xenophobia spreading in europe. however, in the light of the swedish national audit office's analysis, which suggests that the fund does indeed have a negative impact on returning to work, we believe that the fund has lost its legitimacy and should not be used any more.
‒ i voted in favour of the directive on legal aid. in 2013, the european commission adopted a proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on provisional legal aid for suspects or accused persons in custody and on legal aid in european arrest warrant proceedings. for this reason, it is important that there should also be a directive guaranteeing legal aid where there is an arrest warrant. that is why i voted in favour of the directive.
- i've put my voice down. the report contains a number of good suggestions for maintaining the core elements of the acp-eu acquis beyond 2020, such as: commitment to human rights, gender equality, human development, inclusion of civil society, good governance and democracy, the rule of law and the exchange of best practices within a common framework. it is also positive that the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals are being called for to be given a central role in a new agreement. but the report also advocates a trade dimension in the framework of the economic partnership agreement (epa), which essentially means increased trade liberalisation and unequal conditions for the acp countries. unfortunately, there is also a lack of literature on combating land grabbing by foreign and domestic powers and concrete strategies to prevent economic exploitation of the most vulnerable groups. nor is there a complete rejection of using the acp-eu to stop refugees and migrants, or against militarism. that is why i have abstained from voting.
in writing. we swedish social democrats welcome the report's focus on reviewing relations with the acp countries in view of the expiry of the cotonou agreement in 2020. we are convinced that a future partnership must be based on equal relations based on mutual interests, and it is therefore important that the eu does not settle for a continuation of existing agreements which have shown clear shortcomings. we support the report's call on the commission to put in place a new cooperation structure based on a broader political partnership than the current agreements. we therefore wish to recall the importance of not committing ourselves to a ready-made proposal at this stage, but entering into negotiations with a view to responding to the needs and assessments of the acp countries, in order to establish a future partnership based, inter alia, on the implementation of the 2030 agenda and taking into account the diversity of the countries and sub-regions.
madam president, i would like to thank you. today we are debating the question of the commission's code of conduct and the risk of conflicts of interest. is there a problem with the revolving door between the european commission and big business? is there a risk that policy decisions could be influenced by eu commissioners thinking about how this might affect their earning potential after their political careers? do we have a strong enough regulatory framework? the answers to these questions will come naturally. the more power a politician has, the greater the risk of conflicts of interest, and the more stringent regulations we need to prevent conflicts of interest. this regulatory framework needs to be improved. we must make sure that we close the loopholes in the regulation, because it is quite lax in its aspects at the moment. we need to ensure that we improve the control of an active and independent ethics committee which has the right to take its own initiative. and we need to extend the waiting period to at least three years before an eu commissioner can lobby.
madam president, the engagement of ex-commissioners as advisers in multinational financial companies such a short time after they held office does cause rage. the engagement of ex-president barroso at goldman sachs and that of connie hedegaard at volkswagen constitute scandalous moves, which are happening in dramatic times in europe and can only provide further ammunition for populist and extremist europhobe propaganda. european leaders on every level are supposed to give some kind of example of ethical behaviour. i firmly believe that the eu conflict of interest rules need to be tightened. we need strict and clear rules on the quarantine period, as well as ethical rules on quarantine. commissioner, if there is outrage out there, then the quarantine period is too short. the lack of clear and balanced rules and the lack of explanation as to why this is so will cause strong distrust among our citizens, and that will only grow. we have to plug the leak now, as soon as possible.
madam president, i would like to thank you. like many others here, i've been to "the jungle" in calais, twice. it's a prison town where 10,000 people, including nearly 1,000 children, are trapped. they are stuck because britain and france have failed to find any political solutions that are sustainable. they are also subjected to police brutality, tear gas and water cannons. especially the most vulnerable, namely unaccompanied children. now the complete demolition of the camp has been announced and the people of "the jungle" live in fear. where are they going? in addition, france and britain are building another wall. but it's not more walls that europe needs or britain or france. furthermore, there is no excuse for the uk government not to uphold the right to family reunification. hundreds of children are waiting to be reunited with their families in britain. instead of spending our money on walls, we need to invest in a dignified reception. we must have housing, we must respect the rights of children, we must have separate housing for women, who are extremely vulnerable. we will continue to fight for the people of calais until they are treated as what they are, human beings.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we can ask ourselves where commissioner avramopoulos went. he gave his ten-minute talk; then he disappeared like a paycheck. of course, with a salary of 300,000 pounds a month, you might not need to sit here and listen to what we have to say. and as i said, that's not a debate we're having; we can't even get a blue card because we're late. we have heard talk of children coming alone to calais, and there are talk of thousands, several thousands. there seems to be some order in the number. but do we know? does anyone know? under the dublin regulation, shouldn't you be registered in the first safe country you come to? isn't that what the ordinance is for? why is it that they don't want to stay in france? could it be that there are better benefits in britain? it could be that, maybe. i also thought about what avramopoulos said about reducing the flow of migrants to europe. and then i ask myself: how's he gonna solve it, considering we're about to close our border controls?
mr president, i would like to thank you. we see refugee flows that are not diminishing in any way, and a big part of the reason for this is the situation in syria. we are seeing an increasingly aggressive russia, which, together with assad, has formally bombed the democratic forces that existed to smithereens. this action leaves the people with only two options: to choose between assad and russia or isis. this is clearly what assad wants to achieve to maintain power in syria. russia considers itself to be acting in the name of democracy, but when indiscriminately laying bomb mats over hospitals and civilians, it is not acting in the name of democracy. then you're part of the terror that makes people run. the eu must do everything it can to force russia to withdraw. democracy and peace are not in any way benefited by russia's actions, and the countries of europe must also make this clear. in my party, we are very clear in our criticism of putin's actions.
mr president, i would like to thank you. european leaders, such as angela merkel, stefan löfven and jean-claude juncker, thought we could afford more than a million migrants. everyone who came to europe would quickly get into work and save us from alleged demographic challenges. experts said that the flow of migration will lead to an economic miracle, where they could just jump into workplaces and start working without any further education. how'd it go? for example, according to figures published this summer by reuters, the 30 largest publicly traded companies in germany could have employed only 63 migrants. it is high time to start talking about priorities for resources. the amount that sweden alone spends on migrants, mostly economic migrants, could have doubled the funding of the entire unhcr budget. i'm afraid this doesn't work anymore. you who have largely created this crisis cannot be trusted to solve it. i don't want to hear any more excuses about how this crisis could not have been foreseen. (the speaker accepted to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
(blue card) mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. neither stefan löfven nor angela merkel has created the crisis. it has been created by brutal bombings, by terrorism that slaughters people, crucifixes and enslaves. it's important to remember one thing: the countries which have received the most refugees in recent years have also been able to reconcile this with the best economic development in the european union, so mrs winberg is wrong on that point. i'd like to ask her a question. people are fleeing from bombings, rapes, slavery, executions. we've seen how assad has murdered half a million people. you just said a million refugees is too many. how many refugees do you think we should take in? or do you want to let people die where they are?
(blue card) you may not have heard that i also mentioned that we need to prioritize the resources we have. i think it's much more important to help real refugees in camps where they suffer from a lack of supplies. you heard me say here that the amount we spend on migrants in sweden could cover the unhcr budget twice. it's about prioritizing right and helping as many people as possible.
mr president, the discussions about european policy versus russia’s policy will be formative for the security of europe, for the strength and respect of europe, and also for europe staying united and strong in the defence of the values of freedom and open society. a lot of people – and i am one of those – would like to go back to business as usual. but we cannot go back to business as usual as long as business is not as usual. russia is not a partner for peace. we have seen in the war on the territory of russia, in chechnya, in georgia, in ukraine, and now in the brutal warfare in syria, that russia is not a partner for peace; it is a partner for dictators and for brutal warfare. that is the truth, and we need to stay with the requirement that the minsk agreements must be respected, we must stand strong together, we must discuss energy policy from this perspective – including the nord stream ii project – and we must require that those who are guilty of the mh17 are found and taken to court. we must stay united and we must stay clear that the only way to secure freedom and security in europe is to have a strong european union standing up for its values.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i see kazakhstan's accession to the hague convention as a first step in tackling the problem of abducted children. by determining the courts of jurisdiction and the laws to be applied, we lay the foundation for cooperation between the contracting states. but i don't think that's enough. i see the need for systematic work on this issue, both by the police, the prosecutor, civil organisations, etc. accession to the convention is a good start, but it will not be enough without systematic work to prevent the problem.
in writing. increased application of intellectual property rights to seed in trade agreements with developing countries may reduce farmers' choices while increasing costs, which in turn may jeopardise food security in these countries. however, a gradual development of intellectual property rights based on experience and voluntary cooperation may be appropriate in certain cases, and that is why we decided to abstain on the amendment on the privatisation of seed. the cultivation of gm crops is in many cases based on the use of herbicide pesticides, which have devastating effects on biodiversity, deplete arable land and, in the long run, threaten sustainable agriculture. we therefore want to see a phasing out of the use of such gm crops, so that food production is gradually replaced by more sustainable alternatives. however, this phase-out must be pursued in a long-term and sustainable manner, which is why we do not support drafts which we fear may complicate the existing food supply in countries.
‒ today the european parliament voted on a resolution on a european public prosecutor's office, with the task of fighting fraud. such a proposal was presented by the european commission during the last term of office and has been a long-standing issue, but has so far not received support in the council of ministers. in sweden, the parliament's justice committee unanimously rejected the proposal in a so-called subsidiarity test. such an exercise of authority is simply considered to be a matter for the national level. i share that view and therefore voted against the resolution.
‒ today the european parliament voted on a resolution on industrial policy, in view of the recent notices in steelworks in france and belgium. i share the spirit of the resolution on solidarity and support for all workers concerned and realise the negative impact on the local communities concerned. i'm afraid that's a completely wrong conclusion. the resolution presents tariffs and supranational industrial subsidies as the way to increase european competitiveness. that's a flawed analysis. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. i therefore chose to vote against the resolution.
in writing; the resolution has positive comments such as that 'the support to eu banks has had no impact on employment or improved the economic outlook'. but at the same time, reference is also made to the europe 2020 strategy, which is linked to the european deadlines and the austerity policy that has long been established within the eu. i would have preferred a resolution that clearly rejects austerity and calls for the eu to adopt an expansionary green economic policy that, through climate-smart investment in industry and the public sector, will get the wheels rolling again. the resolution also includes phrases such as the need to reduce the 'administrative burden' on businesses and stresses the importance of 'abolishing unnecessary legislation'. the absence of such a definition leaves open the possibility of interpretations which could lead to serious deterioration of the working environment and the rights of workers and consumers. the resolution also calls for greater convergence between member states in tax, social and budgetary matters. i am opposed to proposals which have such a federal focus. for these reasons, i choose to abstain.
‒ the resolution on caterpillar and alstom highlights a number of key aspects. these are industries whose operations are challenged by fierce competition in the global market. the scenario is not significant for the industries indicated but applies to all market players. i therefore believe that the resolution takes the wrong approach, praising supranational labour market measures without any real success factors. that is why i am voting no.
in writing. – i support workers who lost their jobs, i share the pain of both workers and their families, and i am aware of the current damage of industrial restructuring. however, i did abstain from voting since i firmly believe that politicians in the eu and its member states should not decide in specific cases, such as caterpillar and alstom. i believe that we need a more ambitious industrial strategy aimed at creating jobs and economic growth and a strategy that is able to provide needed help when necessary. i believe that the authorities should have the power to decide how to implement that strategy in specific cases.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i share the sentiments expressed in this debate. the blood freezes in your body when you think of the horrors the people in syria are experiencing. bombing of hospitals, children being killed, attacked, tortured. families desperately trying to escape, children washed ashore on beaches, fleeing for a safer future. meanwhile, two of the main actors in the conflict have pulled back and have cancelled their talks on a ceasefire. we have an even greater responsibility to end the bloodshed and, in the long run, to achieve a sustainable future and peace. as one of the largest donors of humanitarian aid to syria, the eu must be much stronger and more consistent in putting pressure on all parties to achieve a new ceasefire. i want to support calls for an eu strategy calling on the commission to step up its work and push for a strategy that gives a real role to syria.
mr president, during the five days i was in bogota and cartagena we met with victims – women, farmers, politicians against and in favour of the peace process. i can assure you that the people of colombia and the victims are not for revenge. they want peace and daily security. we witness a new chapter in peace-building, and it is crucial that the peace process remain feministic. the participation of the victims and of civil society organisations in the peace process is crucial. women, as well as the afro-colombian community and indigenous people, have to be fully part of the negotiation of the peace agreement. they have to be involved continually in the definition, implementation and control of the political mechanism and financial instruments in the country. it is also necessary, as soon as possible, to create the special tribunal for peace and the committee for truth and reconciliation, the special unit for missing people and the unit for the investigation and dismantling of the criminal organisations. in this highly sensitive situation, it is essential that we continue to support eamon gilmore’s work as eu special envoy for the colombian peace process, including the promised establishment of the european union trust fund for colombia, as well as the eu decision to suspend farc from its terrorist list on agreed terms.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. history shows that a woman's right to her own body can never be taken for granted. history also shows that this has never been a strictly national issue. solidarity has always been transnational, as it is here tonight. more than 40 years ago, swedish and french women were allowed to go to poland to decide about their own bodies and whether they wanted to have a pregnancy or not. today polish women can go to sweden, you are welcome. the new law is a terrible blow to women's rights and women's bodies. but the law in force, the one that is in force now, it is also a violation of women's rights. let's settle this tonight. there are far too many, old men in particular, in this house who choose to systematically turn a blind eye to the human rights of women. but i'll tell you this. there are few things as fundamental as having control over your own body. and that right, it's so central to those of us who believe in equality. one of our polish colleagues just told me: i'm gonna wear black until this disgusting bill is scrapped. to her and to my polish friends who are also here tonight, i would just like to say, "you are not alone". when the spanish conservative government threatened to ban abortion again in spain, we - women and men who believe in basic equality - took to the streets and squares of almost every city in europe. we will do it again, and we will not rest, because an attack on your rights, on your bodies, is an attack on the rights of all of us. we will not give up, we will fight for your freedom, but also for the freedom of all of us to decide about our bodies and our sexuality.
blue-card question. – my question to you is very simple: how do you sleep at night? do you not realise that dinosaurs like you belong to the past, not to the present and definitely not to the future? how do you sleep at night?
madam president, today i stand by the women of poland claiming their rights. i guess one of the feelings we have here, when we have all these brilliant men pundits talking about our body, and that we share with the women of poland, is that we are not incubators; we are not reproductive machines. that is a general shared women’s right, and women’s rights are human rights. it is the right to our health, to our reproductive health, to our body, and to our freedom to choose. and yes, we should talk about that in this house. it should be a public debate. those who want to use the democratic rights of the people of poland to increase nationalism, demagogy and populism are abusing this debate. it is about women that are being raped, women that are victims of incest, possible health complication, miscarriages. what do you men know about that? it is a matter of our health. we cannot be criminalised; no woman in the world can be criminalised for that. no doctor who is trying to help a woman with a health problem related to birth can be sent to prison when doing their job. that is what we are talking about tonight. and yes, we in the ppe, think that family legislation is a national issue. yes, we do think that it is up to the polish parliament to complete the ongoing process to legislate. and that is why i urge our dear colleagues in warsaw and a government that seems to start finally seeing that women have a voice in poland, to revise the law. i am wearing black in solidarity with the women of poland tonight.
madam president, i would like to thank you. we european women are tired of men who want to dictate our bodies. today we say it once again. and today i hope that, from this chamber, that message will go out to all polish women and all the women around us who are fighting against restrictive, reactionary abortion laws, so that they feel that there is support and that we are reaching out to them at this moment. you are not alone, and together we are strong. we can never accept this barbarism, this abuse of women's bodies. not today from the dark, reactionary conservative government in poland, and not from any other government either. that's enough. nor must abortion become a class issue where those who can afford to pay for a safe abortion elsewhere, abroad, get it, because access to sexual and reproductive health and rights is a right for all eu citizens. i want to say it again. we european women are tired of men who want to dictate our bodies. that's enough. (cecilia wikström refused a question ('blue card') from urszula krupa)
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. as late as yesterday we were all sitting in this house celebrating the ratification of the international paris agreement. i am glad that we have succeeded in doing so and that it is in place for the forthcoming climate conference in marrakech. but we shouldn't pat ourselves on the back too much, but we should also understand and realize that this is the beginning. it is now up to the eu and the rest of the world to roll up their sleeves. this is the time to show that we are capable and willing to actually work towards the solutions that are required if we are to reach the goal of limiting global warming to a maximum of 2 degrees and ideally to 1.5 degrees. it takes more than pretty words to do this; it now requires concrete policy. if we are to show the seriousness of the fact that climate change is not an obstacle but a lever for a sustainable society and a more resource-efficient green economy, it is clear that the eu must lead that development. the eu, like all regions of the world, will need to do much more if we are to achieve the goals of the paris agreement. one of the most important tools is the ets, which we have at our disposal. i myself and colleagues in this parliament are currently negotiating the ets. we need to reduce emissions more and faster than we are doing now, but we also need to create the right incentives for industry to be bold in making climate-smart investments. i would also like to stress that the climate change must be a matter for society as a whole. it's not okay for some industries to take a shortcut on others, without contributing to climate change. everyone who can, should do their bit. similarly, we must ensure that the transition is solidarity-based and avoids negative social effects. groups and regions with particular challenges must not be left behind but must be given special support in their transition.
the committee on petitions has been asked to submit an opinion. president. - the debate is closed. as chairman of the committee on petitions, i am constantly reminded that the legislation we are working on here is not always properly implemented in the member states. i am reminded of the importance of its proper implementation, no matter what policy area we are talking about, because it is really about our credibility as institutions; it is about the right of citizens, no matter where they live, in which member state, to actually take part in the legislation we are implementing. unfortunately, the member states leave a lot to be desired in this area, and this applies to all policy areas. we take requests on migration policy, consumer issues, environmental issues and all sorts of other things. we see, from the stream of requests we receive, that there is actually a gap between the intention in the legislation and the implementation out there. as chair of this committee, i will continue to highlight these shortcomings and to stress the need for proper implementation and the right of citizens throughout the eu to have access to the legislation we are working on in an equal way, everywhere.
mr president, of course, it is rule 135 on breaches of human rights and international law. i want to say to this house that we have no news from the peaceful women’s boat to gaza; they are being held in israel. (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. ‒ the resolution addresses the humanitarian catastrophe in syria, with particular attention to the situation in aleppo. i welcome the call on all parties, in particular russia and the assad regime, to cease attacks on the civilian population and civilian infrastructure. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution. at the same time, i note that the resolution could have gone further on the subject of russian bombings against civilians. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. this should be emphasized by the european parliament.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on syria. my basic view is that there is only a political and diplomatic solution to the conflict in syria. there is no military solution to the bloody civil war. the cessation of violence requires a political solution that includes a democratic transition, the handover of power by assad and the guarantee of the rights of syria's various ethnic and religious groups. arms supplies to both the syrian regime and the opposition are an obstacle to a peaceful solution to the conflict. we need a full arms embargo on syria. the un needs to urgently address the crisis and act to protect civilians and curb the flow of arms and resources to isil and other terrorist groups. the forces supporting isis must be put under severe pressure. turkey has a special responsibility for not consistently opposing is, but instead focusing on its own military violence against the kurdish population and its struggle for its fundamental rights. the war in syria has created a terrible refugee crisis. if the eu had taken its responsibility and shown respect for international conventions and human rights, it would have guaranteed the issuing of humanitarian visas to asylum seekers at eu embassies and consulates, and the introduction of mandatory resettlement programmes at eu level instead of the weak voluntary resettlement programme proposed by the council.
in writing. ‒ i am firmly convinced that a resolution is needed to address the serious situation in syria, and in a situation that is rapidly changing for the worse, a new resolution is also needed to address this. i chose to include an amendment from the enf; in this case it was important to also show support for the kurds, who have been affected by the syrian war and by the political leadership in turkey.
‒ cop22 will be an important next step after the successes of cop21. the resolution as a whole is both acceptable and well balanced. i am opposed to the financial transaction tax because it has a counterproductive effect on the movement of capital in the internal market. that is why i voted in favour of deleting this paragraph, in agreement with alde.
in writing. ‒ tackling climate change is one of the biggest challenges we face and it is vital that all countries of the world shoulder their share of the burden. climate finance and technology transfer are important to reduce emissions in less developed countries. but introducing an eu tax on financial transactions is the wrong way to go. giving the eu taxation rights would be a major transfer of power from the member states to the eu and would erode the swedish tax base. we will continue to decide on tax policy in sweden on our own. that's why the moderates have voted against the introduction of such a law.
in writing. for us, there is no doubt that climate change is the fate of our time. we therefore wholeheartedly support the paris agreement and its objective of limiting the increase in global average temperature to below 2 °c, with further efforts to limit the increase to 1.5 °c. the objective is absolutely necessary and an investment in the future of humanity and nature. the eu's commitments under the paris agreement may mean that financial resources for climate action may increase in the short term, and we therefore welcome the commission's undertaking of a comprehensive assessment of the possible impact of the agreement on the eu budget. however, we believe that there is a lack of clarity in the text on an automatic financing mechanism at eu level for this purpose and have therefore refrained from supporting such a proposal.
‒ harmonising legislation on materials intended to come into contact with food is of great importance for the internal market and for european consumers to feel confident that the food they eat is safe. that is why we voted in favour of the report. however, we do not share the unfounded criticism of the european food safety authority (efsa) contained in the text. nor can we support calls to ban or phase out substances without scientific support.
‒ i have previously voted in accordance with efsa's recommendations on fcm and bpa; this time i chose to take account of the very clear line taken by the centre party on this issue and wish to push for it also at european level , namely a total ban on bpa in materials intended to come into contact with food. otherwise a very good text which highlights the need for more research on, among other things, synergies and unknown substances, and which introduces stricter requirements on fcm in general.
‒ harmonising legislation on materials intended to come into contact with food is of great importance for the internal market and for european consumers to feel confident that the food they eat is safe. that is why we voted in favour of the report. however, we do not share the unfounded criticism of the european food safety authority (efsa) contained in the text. nor can we support calls to ban or phase out substances without scientific support.
in writing; the report deals with the commission's annual report on monitoring the application of union law. it shows, inter alia, that the environment, transport, the internal market and services remained the policy areas with the highest number of infringement procedures in 2014. the report is critical of the fact that the work of upholding eu law is still not sufficiently transparent. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment, and for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment. these are good points, and i agree with them. other points raised include the importance of reducing eu scepticism among citizens, without any reflection on why it exists. the main issue of the report is, as the title indicates, the basic functions of the eu, which are profoundly undemocratic but not sufficiently criticized. that is why i have decided to abstain.
mr president, this week we ratified the paris agreement. the challenge of keeping global warming below two degrees will require a substantial reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. this process of decarbonisation provides opportunities for the european economy and industries. however, this transition can also create risks. the european systemic risk board warned about the adverse scenario where the transition to a low carb economy comes late and abruptly. in this case, the cost of the transition will be higher, with severe effects on economic and financial institutions. in other words, our financial institutions’ pension schemes and insurance companies have to adjust to a new reality very soon in order to avoid potential risk for our economic system and economy. this is why it is crucially important that the commission further assesses the systemic risk associated with the low carbon transition and proposes, where necessary, transparency requirements and policies to mitigate systematic risk as much as possible. in that way, the commission will enrich financial markets with more information so the market itself can address the risks. it is necessary to do it quickly and i insist that the commission does not hesitate on that matter.
mr president, it was with great concern that i read the rapporteur’s original report. not even once in the text was iran condemned for its human rights abuses. not even once was the support for terrorists mentioned. the iranian policy of anti-semitism and of calling for the destruction of israel was completely left out. in the lead-up to the vote in the committee on foreign affairs, iranian embassies sent me and other members of this parliament a letter, a letter in which the agents of the regime expressed their great satisfaction with mr howitt’s report. in fact the ambassadors representing one of the world’s most brutal dictatorships expect us as members of parliament to support this text. at the same time, iranian state media have reported that the eu will now, through this report, give its support to the regime and its actions. the compromise amendments make the report slightly better, and i would like to thank the epp shadow rapporteur, mr brok, for his efforts, but this parliament has a long tradition of placing human rights at the very core of its relations with other countries. for that reason, i have decided to vote tomorrow for the amendments tabled by the alde group, which will make the report somewhat more balanced.
mr president, i would like to thank you. if i were to come here by train from my second home city, sarajevo, bosnia, instead of travelling from sweden, this journey would take 48 hours. i am very grateful to be a swedish parliamentarian. it's extremely much easier to be. this is, of course, unreasonable. the lack of rail and road connections has created major enormous communication problems in eastern europe and has impeded economic development, damaged jobs, reduced the mobility of goods, services and people and damaged tourism, created problems with energy supply and exacerbated climate issues. so we have to do something about it. i am very pleased that the commission has already proposed a package, which is only to be welcomed. but i hope that more will come, and i hope that the efforts will be swift and that the money will eventually increase, so that the enlargement in eastern europe will be more extensive and the follow-up will be frequent enough so that travel to the region will no longer feel like an absurdity.
mr president, i would like to thank you. before the illegal referendum in bosnia, eu representatives threatened sanctions against the politicians who were pushing the referendum. commissioners mogherini and hahn felt that the referendum challenged the sovereignty and integrity of bosnia. several member states also condemned it. but then the referendum was held anyway, after all. and what was the eu's reaction? were there any sanctions? were there any consequences, any punishments that you've threatened? i don't know. the only thing agreed was the council statement, which deplores this referendum. i'm sorry about that. like that's a detail. a false claim. you're trying to divide the country and the council is sorry? threatening something and then not doing it is losing authority and sending a signal that you can ignore what the eu says. that's exactly what happened. the wave of separatism sweeping through bosnia is threatening the country's european future, but the eu is watching. my question to the commissioner is: will the commission act before it is too late?
madam president, i would like to thank you. in recent years we have seen how country after country in our union has neglected the rights of its citizens. freedom of the press, freedom of speech, the right to love whomever you want, and many of the most fundamental principles of the rule of law have been put at risk by the powerful and populist leaders of the various countries. so the building that once built europe strong in the ruins of the second world war has begun to fade and break down. people are pitted against people and populists and nationalists who want to divide us, divide us and cultivate fear and suspicion instead of building trust. we liberals have for many years and in all the different countries been pushing the question of creating some kind of rights mechanism to ensure that our fundamental rights are guaranteed. that is why i am very happy and pleased today that my colleague, sophia in 't veld, can present this excellent report. it is now important, however, that the commission follow up and make concrete legislative proposals so that we can move forward. because fundamental rights should not be pretty words on a piece of paper that nobody cares about in the member states. governments must now take responsibility. because rights mean something in practice, and rights are the protection of the individual against the collective. we have achieved a great deal in europe and now we are taking the next step.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by thanking sophia von veld for a very ambitious report on a very, very important issue. i think that's one of the most important questions we have to answer. we call it fundamental rights in the eu system, and that is exactly what it is. human and civil rights are the foundation. the defence of these rights must therefore also take precedence over all other considerations. unfortunately, we often see the opposite. i am therefore pleased that this report today is shining a spotlight on the foundations of the european union: fundamental rights, where the rule of law is also the basis of democracy. there is a lot of talk about poland and hungary today. it is quite true that the development of these countries has gone too far in the wrong direction. i believe that an article 7 procedure must be opened against both of them if the eu is to continue to be taken seriously as the defender of the union's own fundamental rights. it is important to recall that violations of fundamental rights may occur in all member states. france is deporting roma who are eu citizens. sweden restricts free movement by means of border controls. the czech republic and slovakia segregate children in schools. in 2000, the eu sanctions against austria ended in failure. almost 17 years later, we're practically in the same situation. long before i took my seat in the european parliament, i was on the barrosso commission on the respect of human rights in the candidate countries. i wondered how the commission was going to ensure that the new member states respected human rights. barroso replied that it was much better if they were involved. it is our duty to protect human rights.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution. i consider the nuclear agreement with iran to be a political and diplomatic success. the agreement reduces tensions in the region and increases the possibilities for promoting peace and security. at the same time, i would like to stress the serious violations of human rights in iran. these include the death penalty, torture, serious discrimination against women in many areas, serious restrictions on freedom of expression and assembly, not least against trade unions. the eu and its member states must, in the newly launched dialogue with iran, make a clear protest against these serious human rights violations and demand democratization. the eu's trade policy, if it is linked to clear demands, could contribute to such a development in iran.
in writing. we swedish social democrats welcome last year's nuclear agreement with iran as an important step towards making the region and the world a safer place. we believe it is important that the eu now responsibly sets out the conditions and the requirements that should be met in order to make a constructive future relationship with the country possible. that is why we voted in favour of the report on a post-deal strategy for iran. we want to stress that respect for human rights must be the first priority and must always be the guiding principle in all eu relations with third countries, as the report on iran also stressed. however, since we considered that several of the amendments, despite their focus on human rights, did not add anything new to the report but rather repeated what was already in the text, we chose not to vote for them.
‒ although i voted in favour of this report, i do not support the proposal on the european public prosecutor's office. nor do i support the demand for mandatory rules that state that convicted persons should not be allowed to take political office or work in public administration. such measures are to be considered as an additional sanction, which is normally only imposed temporarily by a court. otherwise, the convicted persons are punished twice, which is contrary to the principle of ne bis in idem.
in writing. ‒ i can broadly support this report which stresses the importance of combating organised crime, corruption and money laundering. however, in paragraph 42b of the draft report, it was written that people found guilty of the crimes mentioned in this resolution would not be allowed to stand as candidates in elections or to work for a public institution. i think that the system we have in sweden regarding the possibility of standing as a candidate in elections and seeking public office is good and reflects my position of principle. that is why i voted against paragraph 42b.
in writing. we swedish social democrats voted in favour of the report on the fight against corruption and the follow-up to the resolution of the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering. point 42 (b) proposes a ban on persons convicted of certain crimes or who have been involved in organised crime from working in public administration in the member states and standing in general elections. we understand that the idea behind the proposal is to fight corruption and to prevent the influence of organised crime in elected assemblies, which is a problem in some member states. we believe, however, that the rules governing who may stand in general elections should be determined in the member states. we also believe that it is important in principle that people convicted of crimes should be given a second chance. we therefore abstained on this point, but voted in favour of the report in the final vote.
‒ this report on human rights and migration in third countries contains several elements that i support, including the focus on the vulnerability of women and children and the importance of international responsibility towards victims of war and conflict. i also chose to go against my own party group and vote for bills on legal ways of migration. however, there are a number of very problematic points in the text. firstly, there is no clear distinction between the terms 'migrant' and 'refugee', as underlined by the rejection of epp proposals supporting the return of persons deemed to be in need of protection earlier in the process. this is unfortunate, as clarity on the definition of who is a refugee and a generous refugee policy that does not include economic migration is a prerequisite for a sustainable migration policy and a generous refugee policy. i therefore voted against the report in the final vote.
‒ this own-initiative report takes important steps towards a sustainable, secure and competitive energy system in the union. it also stresses the importance of ending dependence on external gas supplies, which can indirectly contribute to geopolitical tensions. it is essential that the eu does not impede the emergence of other types of energy, including biogas, in order to take more superficial steps towards a green transition. the availability of lng and improved infrastructure can also contribute to economic benefits, as the current market supply allows for competitive energy prices. prices that can stimulate member states to take the necessary steps in the right direction.
in writing. in the vote on the report on an eu strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage, we voted in favour of the texts concerning nord stream 2. we generally share the concern expressed in the report about the implications for security of supply, security policy and eu energy policy that the nord stream 2 project may have. it is therefore important that this be taken into account in the report. we also chose to abstain on the texts in the report which refer to the possibility of increasing energy trade relations with the united states, including through ttip. the ttip negotiations are ongoing, we don't know what a possible final agreement will look like, and a large part of us gas is shale gas extracted by hydraulic fracturing, which can have a major negative impact on nature. the increased supply of liquefied gas on the global market offers opportunities to diversify the eu's energy supply, but at the same time our delegation wishes to underline the importance of reducing the eu's long-term dependence on gas to achieve its climate and energy objectives.
‒ the report makes recommendations on how to ensure that eu fisheries rules are monitored more uniformly by all fishermen in the union. the recommendations also apply to recreational fishermen and this is important, as recreational fishing in some parts of the union has a major impact on local fish stocks. the report calls on the commission to take this into account in future legislation. this does not mean that the administrative burden for swedish recreational fishermen will increase in any way.
in writing. - i voted for the report. the main idea of the report is that the european commission should establish a binding mechanism to report annually on the state of respect for democratic principles, the rule of law and human rights in the eu countries. the aim is to monitor developments in the eu countries so that democracy is not undermined. the new eu mechanism would also provide the opportunity for recurrent debate within the eu institutions and national parliaments on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. i would like to emphasize that the monitoring should be limited to these core and structural issues of democracy. the intention is that no eu member state should be able to restrict democracy and/or undermine the rule of law. however, each member state must of course have full freedom to develop the economic and social policy which its government, after democratic and free elections, has been given the mandate to pursue.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report to make monitoring of fundamental rights and the rule of law across the eu more efficient, by building on existing tools and strengthening them, without a formal revision of the treaties. it is important to be able to react quickly when there is a serious risk of breach of fundamental rights or the rule of law in member states. the interinstitutional agreement proposed allows a debate to be opened at a much earlier stage in order to find a solution, before having to arrive at the nuclear bomb of article 7 of the treaties. i also support that the commission remains solely responsible for drafting the annual report on fundamental rights and the rule of law and for triggering any further step in the procedure against member states. the european parliament will also be able to play a role in the monitoring mechanism within its mandate and without becoming a tribunal, differently from what we have seen in previous proposals.
in writing. we swedish social democrats supported the report on recommendations to the commission on the establishment of an eu mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. it is extremely important that we in the eu have better tools to be able to act when a member state systematically violates the values of the eu treaties and infringes fundamental rights. at the same time, we see problems with parts of the report which propose possible treaty changes. two of these proposals would fundamentally change the constitutional order of europe. the relationship between national constitutions and the eu treaties would be changed and the eu's competences would be extended. unfortunately, it was not possible to vote against these proposals alone and we therefore abstained in the votes on paragraph 20, paragraphs 6 and 7, and paragraph 20, paragraphs 1 and 3.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to call for greater responsibility for a fairer distribution of the resources offered by the eu. the recent commission communication on the youth guarantee and the youth employment initiative clearly shows that we need to do much more to reach people who are struggling with poverty, social exclusion, disability and discrimination. including romans. according to a fra study, 58% of young roma are excluded from the labour market, vocational training and education. but the eu funds that exist to give these young people a chance at employment and education do not reach this group. halfway through the mff, it is crucial to review all key financial instruments, such as the esf, erdf, erasmus+ and creative europe, to ensure that those in dire need of these programmes do not face obstacles. i also want us to respect the new report from the court of auditors.
madam president, plant health is a key factor in promoting the sustainable and competitive agricultural sector. we are all aware of the importance of making the eu better protected from the possible entrance of new pests that have devastating effects, such as those we have seen recently in italy and spain. however, the result of negotiations is a system where it becomes so easy for member states to impose bans on plants and plant products based on weak preliminary assessment. i firmly believe that it will make imports more difficult, will lead to the substantial increase of costs, trade distortions, threatening the eu trade in plants worth an estimated eur 30 billion. there must be a balance between import restrictions and the protection of trade interests, otherwise we risk putting in force legislation which can be a clear signal of protectionism.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the ceta agreement with canada is now in serious doubt, as wallonia and the brussels region have now rejected the agreement in its current form. one problem for my country is that our strong animal welfare is being affected by the agreement in a negative way. dispute settlement is also a problem, where multinational companies are given too much power. canada, in particular, has had its own problems with so-called letterbox companies abusing this dispute clause. i believe in free trade agreements and i am convinced that they will bring great export opportunities for my country. however, the whole process has meant that it would have been much more transparent from the very beginning to avoid all the problems we see now. finally, i must say to mr weber and others: the people of europe laugh at you and your constant throwing of the dice. you're acting like a bunch of uncouth, spoiled puppies sitting in a sandbox with your bucket and shovel, and you're pissed off that you can't have your little sandbox in peace. democracy is something you only like if it's your version of democracy.
madam president, i would like to thank you. we heard earlier mr weber compare the eu to a bicycle that must be stepped on to move forward. it makes sense. but my recommendation to mr. weber and the rest of you in here is to hit the brakes instead. park your bike and think about which way you're going to ride. i would rather compare the eu project to a punctured bicycle wheel that can no longer be repaired. it's like everything you do is artificial respiration. we're going to triple the funding for frontex. we're going to have a new frontex. we're going to reform dublin, create new mechanisms, forcibly distribute migrants... i don't know what else you can come up with. the only question is whether the people of the member states know what you are doing. i will at least follow the decision of the united kingdom and take my people to a referendum and leave this building.
in writing. - i voted against the budget. the budget is too large and too comprehensive. there should be major cuts. agriculture is just one example. it results in overproduction and negative effects on the environment, climate and livestock. another example is the unmanageable regional and structural funds, where there is widespread fraud, as the commission itself has confirmed. i am opposed to the continuing efforts to build a fortress europe, which forces people fleeing war and oppression to risk their lives to reach a place of safety. this and the initiatives for the further militarization of the eu are the wrong way forward for a union which claims to defend human rights and is a peace project. as an anti-federalist, i also believe that the member states who pay the eu budget should have full say over the union's expenditure. it is the taxpayers of the member states who pay and therefore it is their directly elected representatives in each country who should have the power. these are some of the reasons why i am voting against the budget.
in writing. we swedish social democrats chose to abstain in the vote on the package deals for heading 1-5 (blocks 1-6) and in the vote on the two reports on the eu budget 2017 (part 1 & part 2). several items in parliament's budget are given high priority. there are well-functioning businesses with clear european added value. investments in research under horizon 2020 and infrastructure under the connecting europe facility are among the best of what is being done in eu cooperation. the general approach should be to minimise the impact of the efsi investment fund on these programmes. we welcome the significant investments in a number of programmes which the committee on budgets - and now the whole of parliament - is advocating. however, as a general rule, we believe that the efforts made should be compensated by appropriate savings in low-priority parts of the eu budget. the general lack of checking of individual appropriations in the budgetary process to reallocate funds to priority areas contributes to parliament's being well above the mff ceiling for the budget as a whole. we cannot therefore support parliament's budget proposal.
‒ today the european parliament voted on the draft eu budget for 2017 by the committee on budgets. the christian democrats are clear that the long-term ambition is to gradually reduce eu spending on agricultural, labour market, regional and industrial policies. since the report wanted to go in the opposite direction, i chose to vote against.
‒ the budget report contained many good elements such as the reinstatement of the efsi research fund and more funds to deal with the refugee crisis. however, the overall budget was an increase both compared to the commission and council proposals, and as i believe that the overall eu budget should not be increased, i chose to abstain in the final vote.
mr president, globalisation has created cross-border problems that need to be addressed in a flexible manner. the priorities of yesterday are not the priorities of today. therefore i welcome the commission presenting a mid-term review. the new proposal is, however, in the words of georgi gotev, an unusual budget. the envelope dedicated to security and migration could be increased by 25%, while money spent on inclusive growth could be decreased by 15%. like my liberal colleagues, i am convinced that revision is highly needed. the european union is currently facing a wide range of crises, notably the immigration crisis, internal emergencies, security issues, agriculture crises, the lack of funding in research and development and a persistent high level of unemployment, especially among young people and third-country nationals. let us therefore redesign our priorities.
in writing. ‒ we believe that prosperity is created through free trade and fair competition. we therefore oppose the european globalisation adjustment fund on principle, which we regard as an expression of protectionism. we have accepted in the past that the fund was used as a purely emergency measure in a time of deep economic crisis, as a way of countering people's sense of hopelessness and the exclusion that follows in the wake of the crisis and that risks further reinforcing the wave of nationalism and xenophobia spreading in europe. however, in particular in the light of the swedish national audit office's analysis, which considers that the fund does indeed have a negative effect on returning to work, we believe that the fund has lost its eligibility and should not be used any more.
‒ unfortunately, this second settlement agreement has become more protectionist than the mandate parliament last gave for negotiations. the final result is that the rules on import restrictions based on plant diseases have moved from being a genuine risk-based assessment based on science to being more open to overly arbitrary assessments and to large administrative burdens for importers. in my view, eu rules to prevent the spread of plant diseases should not be a tool for setting up disproportionate barriers to trade and unfortunately this report has gone too far in my view.
‒ the resolution on trans fats is well balanced and could be voted for. setting a maximum level for the use of trans fats in food is of value to both the centre party and alde. the who study which underpinned the resolution focuses on public health and cardiovascular disease, a widespread problem in the eu, often associated with high intake of trans fats (tfa). the 2% limit is an achievable target and follows the danish example, which is proven and has shown a real reduction of tfa in food. the industry welcomes the limit and considers it feasible. as regards trade in the internal market, it is important to standardise the use of tfa to create incentives for good practice, while the resolution advises against replacing tfa with palm oil which is harmful to the environment, public health and the producer.
in writing. we support the resolution's call on the european commission to limit the levels of industrial trans fats in food. high intake of trans fats is a risk factor in particular for coronary heart disease, which causes approximately 660 000 deaths per year in the eu. despite compelling evidence of the health benefits of limiting industrial trans fats in food, there is a lack of adequate eu legislation on the matter. while we generally welcome food labelling as an important tool to provide consumers with information on the contents of food, we are aware that labelling alone is insufficient to reduce the intake of trans fats by the eu population. it is therefore all the more important that the eu as soon as possible introduce a mandatory eu legal limit value for industrially produced trans fats in all food. such an actual limit value would be an effective tool and would have a wider impact, since it also covers unpackaged food and restaurant food. it is also important that eu action does not encourage food manufacturers to increase the amount of palm oil in their products, as this could lead to high environmental and social costs and serious human rights violations.
author. – mr president, commissioner: europe should mean safety for migrant children. there are more and more children coming to europe, and they are younger and younger: 80 000 only this year, out of which 70 000, according to unhcr, are accompanied minors. behind every number there is a tragedy. there is a heart-breaking story. children are now trafficked, abused, exploited and exposed to terrible suffering. it is happening in europe today. we have an emergency of more than tens of thousands of children that are going missing. they are running away from reception centres and becoming victims of organised crime. the police, the judiciary, law enforcement authorities have to prioritise children. we need better rules for cross-border cooperation, better cooperation with europol, better interoperability of the databases, and yes, welcome to the commission proposal to reduce the age of fingerprinting from 14 to 6, because it is a way to bring the children and to keep the children into the protection system. and that is our duty: to make sure they enter the protection system and to build the trust, to make sure that they remain in the protection system, not by detaining them. arbitrary detention of children should not have a place in europe. still we do not have zero tolerance for impunity for abuse of children in europe, and it is about time that we build this policy. children should be identified, registered and given the right to ask for asylum. member states should accelerate the procedures for granting asylum for children. fast-tracking, relocation and resettlement programmes should be giving priority to children. i want to conclude by saying that i met, in sweden, afghan children, in an organisation they have themselves built, helping each other. let us start to change the rhetoric. they can be an asset and a benefit to our society if we give them access to education, to health care, to psychological support and to dignified shelter. they are an opportunity for our societies.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. children who flee alone without adult support are the most vulnerable people on european soil. we see their vulnerability and how they are at risk of being exploited and exposed to violence and exploitation by unscrupulous adults. many people disappear, and we know that europol reports that 10,000 have disappeared in the last year. most shocking and saddening of all is the sight of the lonely children who have lived in the so-called calais jungle, despite the fact that they have the right to be reunited with their families in britain. this is a disgrace for the european union, because behind the anonymous faces with empty eyes turned towards the television cameras that come to visit there is a name, a destiny, a story. in my role as rapporteur for the dublin regulation review, we will try to find specific ways of ensuring the safety and security of these children. no child should live in the dustbins of europe, alone in the cold and rain, potential victims of unscrupulous adults. no one on earth has the right to take away their childhood in this way. our mission is to give them their childhood back. to give them life, hope and a future. no more, no less than that.
for the gue/ngl group. president. - the debate is closed. i think it's time we stopped talking in tongues. you cannot support the policy of the walls, which we are developing here, and at the same time say that you are for children's rights. the new asylum proposals currently being negotiated are child-friendly. how can it be said that it is in the best interests of children to deprive them of their best chance of security, namely to make permanent residence impossible, as proposed? how can you put a child in custody, defend it, and say it's in the best interest of the child? deporting children is childish. the conclusion of agreements with third countries to return as many as possible is also childish. as we speak, the demolition of "the jungle" in calais is underway, where we are receiving reports of police violence against children. how hard can it be for britain to take in 1,000 children? moreover, they have the right to go there; they have family there. in greece, children and families are stranded because member states are not getting the redistribution to which they are entitled. well, here's the thing. if we are to live up to the convention on the rights of the child, we must re-examine our refugee policy. then we must put the safety and security of children at the centre and then we must also make up and put an end to the policy of the walls.
madam president, i would like to thank you. in 2015, 35,369 children applied for asylum in sweden. of these, 300 girls and boys disappeared. and it's not the first time. according to the migration agency, about 300 unaccompanied children disappear every year in sweden. this is a problem across europe, as the report shows. according to europol, 10,000 children have disappeared. many are believed to have ended up in the sex industry, and the dark numbers are very high. in skåne, in southern sweden, the anti-trafficking coordinator has documented some 40 cases of missing asylum-seeking children. most of the suspects are being used for sexual purposes. these disappearances have been reported to the police. the answer was that the police didn't have the resources to investigate. it makes me very upset. it is our duty to give priority to children in the migration issue.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i would like to thank commissioner avramopoulos for the important introductory statement. today we all share the anxiety when it comes to the humanitarian situation in northern iraq and the risk for extensive loss of lives. in these difficult times we have a responsibility to assist fellow human beings and support a peaceful transition. for centuries mosul has been a multi-ethnic city which has surrounding areas like the nineveh plain. but let us be clear: without international commitment and a european strategy, sectarian conflicts might replace the ethno-religious coexistence and put an end to 1 700 years of christian presence in the region. in order to restore human rights and property rights, the resolution we are about to debate supports the idea of establishing an autonomous nineveh plain province within the framework of the iraqi constitution. furthermore, the resolution emphasises the need for security arrangements and military support to regional defence forces. this is imperative in order to make it possible for refugees and idps to return to their ancestral homelands. by passing this resolution, this parliament will take a lead in the political efforts for a sustainable solution in northern iraq and its vulnerable minorities.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. the liberation of mosul and all the civilians there has begun. but it will not be a rose-tinted dance where the iraqi government walks in one day and proclaims victory the next. the civilian population of mosul is facing a humanitarian disaster and we must be ready to help. some of the mosul residents have managed to escape to the surrounding area, but also to rojava in syria. there are no safe roads out of mosul, and people don't even dare to go out on the streets, let alone leave the city. on the day they arrive, there could be up to a million people on the move. aid agencies on the ground testify that they have the capacity today to receive perhaps 60,000 in camps and as many as 200,000. the international community therefore needs to step up its efforts to provide humanitarian aid and assistance to the area. the aid must also reach those who manage to reach rojava, where it is said that aid is not reaching because of turkey's reluctance to open the border to aid shipments. the liberation of mosul will not lead to long-term peace unless there is a strategy for ensuring the continued existence and right of return of all ethnic groups. the area is home to many minorities such as chaldeans, syrians, assyrians, yazidis, kurds, shabak, turkmen, kakais and shiites. if the iraqi authorities do not listen to the demands of the minorities for autonomy and greater self-determination and do not include them in the negotiations on future forms of governance after liberation, there is a very great risk that new internal conflicts will arise instead of the long-term peace we all wish for as christmas presents. (the speaker agreed to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
(blue card) of course, i think it is extremely important that we all, in different ways, ensure that more resources are provided to the organisations that are now working in the area. we spoke today with the norwegian refugee council, who visited us in the group and who just told us about their difficulties in getting to these many beds that are needed. they were the ones who told us about the 60,000 today, what you have, and that it says or that we say: "we will be able to receive 700,000". they also warned that we may not be able to accommodate more than 200,000 beds. that's why it's so important that we support each other. not just in the immediate area, but outside as well.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. everyone in this room knows that afghanistan is not a safe country. not very safe for anyone, especially not for children and women. not for teenage boys, especially not for hazaras. everyone knows that the taliban recruit teenage boys on roller-coasters and that the security situation for them is extremely dangerous. there are no phrases in the world that can erase the brutal reality that exists in afghanistan. if afghanistan is not safe enough for our european citizens to go to, how can it be safe enough to deport children to, commissioner? i know that sweden is one of the countries that wanted this agreement with afghanistan and i can only say that i am ashamed. this weekend, demonstrations were held all over the country, all over sweden. there are demonstrations in kabul, and virtually every organization working on refugee rights has signed a petition calling for the deal to be stopped. something very serious is going on. aid money is used as a lever to force third countries to take in refugees whom we send back. we need to be very clear. we don't have a migration crisis. we have a political crisis. this deal has to stop. other agreements with third countries also.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i have visited minsk several times in the past year. i've done it to meet the opposition, to meet representatives of civil society. i was there the last time two weeks after the elections in september and there is no doubt that we must state that the parliamentary elections on 11 september were not open. it was not a democratic election. there was no transparency. we must be very critical of the fact that a new electoral law has not yet been put in place - something that the opposition as a whole demanded a year ago. the restrictions on freedom of association, freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and freedom of the press in the country are very serious, as are the violations of human rights and the use of the death penalty. i am convinced that a change towards a more open and democratic climate in belarus requires a functioning civil society. people must be able to organise in trade unions to get better conditions in their workplaces and to be members of political parties. we must respect freedom of speech and we must have a free press. it is now important that the eu establishes a well-functioning and equal dialogue with all parties, in particular civil society organisations and opposition parties, in order to support democratic development in belarus. the outside world - and especially we, democratically elected politicians - must show solidarity with the people of belarus in order to promote democratic development. it's the attention that counts. otherwise, no change will come.
madam president, i would like to thank you. we all see that most things go wrong in turkey. we heard here about the latest unwanted interference in the liberation of mosul. we also heard statements that could be interpreted as president erdoğan's wish to seize the whole area. the power has undeniably gone to the president's head, and i wonder every day: what's he gonna do today? because it's not just about jailing journalists and punishing their families. the state of emergency and the terrorist legislation are being used to curb freedom of expression and kurdish and turkish media abroad are also being targeted, including the tv channel broadcast from sweden, newroz tv. this is certainly not what i expect from a democratically elected president. i would also like to read some of the names that rebecca harms started with earlier: atilla taş ayşe nazlı ilıcak, ayşenur parıldak, aytekin gezici, aziz i̇stegün, bayram kaya, bayram parlak, bünyamin köseli ...
madam president, the night if 15 july i felt close to the people standing up for democracy against tanks. tonight i feel close to the hundreds of journalists unjustly detained. turkish citizens do expect the government to bring those responsible to justice, but it must be within the rule of law, and most urgently, the turkish authorities must ensure humane conditions in detention. thousands of academics, lawyers and businessmen cannot possibly be terrorists, and i call on the turkish authorities to stop the witch-hunt on journalists, release those imprisoned and restore freedom of speech. over the past weeks i have been meeting many people from turkish civil society and the opposition. they feel let down. they feel that europe has turned its back on them. they see the eu as an anchor of democracy, preventing a drift towards autocracy. they urge us to show empathy and solidarity. they urge us to help them restore the rule of law. so let us stop the blame game. inflammatory rhetoric does not help. it is clear that the eu has underestimated the trauma for the people in turkey when we realise the extent of the gülen infiltration in the state institutions. we have a responsibility to better understand the complexity of what is going on in turkey before jumping to conclusions. europe should engage in a constructive dialogue with turkey on all issues of common concern. it is in our mutual interest. the commission is doing it; let’s support them. the eu should therefore get ready to open chapter 23 and 24 on justice and fundamental rights. when the day of a peaceful settlement with cyprus comes, we must be ready. this negotiating framework is a driving force for reform. it is not a reward. it is a concrete way to show our dedication to human rights and freedom of media and to support the democratic forces of turkey that rely on us. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i think that blaming and shaming does not make turkey more democratic and does not help turkey to restore the rule of law or fair trials. i think we should engage and help and support them; that is what our liberal friends, civil society and the opposition is asking the european union. we should not let down the vital democratic forces in turkey. we should help them restore justice and the rule of law.
in writing. - i've lowered my voice. the situation in northern iraq/mosul is extremely critical and is close to a humanitarian catastrophe. it is therefore very urgent and important that the european parliament should express its opinion on this matter. the european parliament should, however, be confined to commenting on the humanitarian situation and supporting peace and security processes for the civilian population. the reason i abstained was that the resolution goes further than that and in its political commentary omits both criticism of turkey and explicit support for kurdish independence. but above all, the resolution also excludes eu member states from responsibility for daesh/isis when they buy oil produced on daesh-controlled land, which is transported by trucks through turkey. the gue/ngl tabled amendments to include this aspect, but the other political groups voted against it. the wide-ranging arms trade between member states and countries in the middle east, which is a major contributor to the unrest in the region and which of course also affects iraq and mosul, is also left out. the eu's role and responsibility in the refugee situation created by the conflict in northern iraq/mosul is not mentioned either. on the contrary, the eu's commitment to development policy in iraq is praised as it can allow for faster deportations of refugees (point 9).
in writing. the military operation recently launched to liberate the city of mosul is an important step towards ending the abhorrent abuses of is/daesh in the region. together with the international coalition against is/daesh, the iraqi government bears the primary responsibility for the military action. we swedish social democrats support the operation and want to stress the importance of its being carried out in strict accordance with international humanitarian law and international human rights law. paragraph 17 of the resolution calls on eu member states to include local security forces in the list of forces entitled to receive assistance. since the paragraph does not specify the type of aid to be included, we decided to refrain from writing this letter. it is of the utmost importance that all civilians, regardless of their religious affiliation, are protected and not targeted in these battles, but it must be the responsibility of the iraqi authorities, with the support of the eu and the international community, to do so.
in writing. ‒ our time has been marked by great tragedies, crises that have put european cooperation at its very forefront. strengthening the legal framework for a european voluntary service is not in any way part of the necessary solutions for the future. the basis of volunteering is its flexible and agile characteristics, which enable organisations to mobilise and operate in a short time. nor is it the eu's task to assist the member states with such a force, but it should be up to each member state to organise and implement it.
- i've lowered my voice. the report looks at the last three-year cycle of the eu youth strategy and proposes priorities for the coming period. it does a good job of analysing the general situation of young people in the eu: longterm unemployment, involuntary parttime work, poverty and exclusion. the report also advocates the participation of youth organisations in decision-making bodies and proposes a range of areas of action where initiatives should be taken: education and training, employment and entrepreneurship, health and well-being, participation, voluntary activities, social inclusion, young people and the world, and creativity and culture. however, the report also argues for greater influence by companies and private actors in the education sector. this is something the left party strongly opposes. the presence of private actors and profit-taking in the public sector only increases inequalities and creates social exclusion.
‒ the report makes recommendations based on the youth strategy 20131015. i voted against the call to introduce minimum wages because i do not believe that this is the right way to go in labour market policy and that it seriously contradicts the swedish labour market model. i found several other parts of the report problematic, in particular the call for the commission to invest in education and to introduce student housing grants, as i believe these are areas that member states should address.
in writing. one of europe's major challenges is youth exclusion, and in sweden, as in other eu countries, youth unemployment is a serious problem. a comprehensive approach will be required to improve the conditions for young people. this must, however, be done with respect for the sovereignty of the member states. the parliament's report on a youth strategy called for changes in labour market regulations, an expansionary fiscal policy to finance education and regulation of the content of curricula. in addition, it was proposed to give different groups special access to public grants. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of hiv/aids and aids in the eu.
madam president, farmers are currently facing a very difficult situation, and it is crucial to ensure a sustainable, competitive and economically viable sector in the future. for a long time, eu rural areas have been suffering from high unemployment and depopulation. we need to put in place the right tools to help make rural areas more attractive for living there. we need, amongst other things, more support for young farmers in embracing their challenging job, more effective ways of farming the land and to increase farmers’ bargaining power in the food supply chain. however, this report goes too far, blaming the cap market liberalisation as a main cause of the recent crises in the different agri-markets. in addition, it calls for going back to a regulated and planned cap with fixed prices and production amounts. i am sorry to say it, but this is not the right way to go. that is why i cannot support this report and i think it should be entirely rejected.
‒ today the european parliament voted on an own-initiative report on the future of the union's agricultural policy. the christian democrats want to phase out the large subsidy schemes. agricultural policy needs to be reduced, and so does agricultural aid. this report goes in the opposite direction and seeks to roll back the necessary reforms of recent years, to use aid as a labour market measure and to make greater in terventions in the agricultural market. it also portrays trade as a threat, rather than an opportunity. overall, the report is contrary to christian-democratic policy in this area and i therefore vote against it.
in writing. - i voted against the report. the left party wants agricultural policy to be managed nationally and organic production to be favoured. the eu's agricultural policy is expensive and bureaucratic, with the cap taking up as much as 40% of the eu budget. the winners are the big farmers of the eu, the losers are the small farmers of the third world. if agricultural policy were renationalised and regional aid reduced, the taxpayers' burden on the eu would be greatly reduced. the report is somewhat critical of the way the cap works in practice, noting that 'the absolute majority of direct cap aid goes to the richest farmers, with only 13% of the beneficiaries receiving 74% of the direct cap aid'. but it still wants to operate within the framework of the cap and is deficient in respect of the environment, climate, rural development, organic farming, improved animal husbandry and concrete proposals for increased employment in rural areas. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive.
in writing. ‒ these are difficult times for many farmers across europe and change is needed to get us out of the negative trend that has unfortunately characterised agriculture for too long. unfortunately, we see too little of the future and too little of the future in this report. instead, they want to see regulation and more dependence on subsidies for europe's farmers, when we must instead ensure that we create a market once and for all where the farmer can be paid for the products he produces. and we will never do that if we are to pursue the policy described in this report, which is why i voted against it.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i don't think we should use headlines in our debates and in our cases that distort reality. the last time we had a vote here in the european parliament on the situation in the west bank, palestine, the vote was about 500 votes in favour and 150 against. i think it is absolutely clear that we should retain the title we have, and i therefore want to oppose the proposal by mr zdzisław krasnodębski.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by thanking the political groups for their cooperation, which has enabled us to reach a broad consensus on an area which will become more important in the future, namely how to create the conditions for an internal market in financial services for individuals and small businesses. i would like to stress that i welcome the commission's green paper. it's come at just the right time. due to significant cross-border barriers, cross-border trade in financial services remains undeveloped. it is bad for consumers, it is a drag on innovative businesses and it is disruptive to the european economy. we therefore need to work to unlock the full potential of that market and support innovative solutions that can benefit consumers. a large part of financial services today is tied to 28 different markets characterised by low competition and lack of global competitiveness. if the power of digitalisation is properly harnessed, a european regulatory system can empower the individual consumer and contribute to a better financial product at lower prices. this is a golden opportunity we cannot afford to miss. a greater proportion of payments are now made digitally. here we need a competition-neutral regulatory framework that ensures that new innovative players can continue to contribute to growth for more jobs in europe. legislation needs to ensure that increased competition contributes to substantial added value for consumers. the most basic rights of citizens, such as the right to open a bank account, need to be strengthened. financial supervisors need to better monitor the compliance of banks and other financial institutions with adopted, implemented legal acts such as psd ii, mifid and the anti-money laundering directive. i am convinced that in times like these the eu must concentrate on one of its core tasks. we must remove more barriers to the free movement of goods. the commission therefore needs to present a series of legislative proposals as soon as possible, taking account of parliament's views. a broad set of regulatory frameworks for financial services within the union is likely to be an important piece of the puzzle in achieving better mobility among eu citizens. the commission has also concluded that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. a clear example is that credit cards stop working for some europeans when they choose to move to another member state. the commission should therefore present proposals to address the issue of geo-blocking specifically linked to trade in financial services. another challenge is to make the identification work in practice. today, there are major problems that can be linked to identification and digital financial services. therefore, the identification technology needs to be standardised. the interpretation of the money laundering directive also needs to be fine-tuned to ensure effective identification possibilities. a global challenge is the issue of financial inclusion. if you as a citizen don't have access to the most basic financial services, life becomes very difficult. whatever measures we take, the issue of financial inclusion must always be at the heart of it. the new payments directive will give every citizen the right to a basic bank account. even if the step is in the right direction, we must not be satisfied. building a well-functioning internal market for financial services is a major project. at the same time, it is worthwhile if it creates real added value for the citizens of europe.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr olle ludvigsson for his excellent report on retail financial services. last year the commission published its green paper on that subject. its title was ‘better products, more choice, and greater opportunities for consumers and businesses’. those remain our objectives. we launched a consultation to ask consumers and businesses for their thoughts on how to achieve them. the responses are shaping our approach to deepening the single market for these services so as to enable consumers to make informed purchases that meet their needs wherever they might be in europe and to allow financial firms to make the most of economies of scale, lower costs and improve service. we received more than 400 responses to our consultation. this underscores the need to tackle some of the barriers to cross-border retail financial services at european level. i am pleased to see that the conclusions of your report go in the same direction. consumers cannot understand why, in our single market, it is still so difficult to purchase financial products from another member state, particularly as other services are more easily available. financial firms can have their ambitions to sell into bigger markets frustrated by additional requirements in different european countries. the green paper consultation has now closed. the commission issued a feedback statement in july and we will follow up with an action plan on retail financial services next year. it will cover a number of areas touched upon in mr ludvigsson’s report. the action plan will tackle barriers that consumers face when they want to access financial products at a distance. we want to make it easier for consumers to be identified remotely without weakening important anti-money laundering requirements. we will look into reducing obstacles which financial firms can face when they want to expand into another european country without establishing a physical presence. and we want to give consumers the confidence that they need to purchase products across borders by giving them better access to reliable information and by making sure that they have a right to redress if things go wrong. the work that we are taking forward with a consumer financial services green paper is part of our broader push to build a single market for capital in europe, a capital markets union. working together we have a real opportunity to strengthen the single market around the principles of transparency, competition and choice, and we can make the daily lives of european consumers easier. this is an opportunity and, by working together, i hope we can take it.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr ludvigsson for this report. it is a very important discussion and very important substance. i think we have every opportunity now to do what we can in order to achieve an efficient and liquid european financial market. digitalisation means that we will have all these opportunities. it will open things up for the fintech industry and a lot of new services, but it will also create better competition, better credit situations, and better credit opportunities. the challenge for us is to set all these things in the perspective of digitalisation, because while it makes most things possible, we can still see that legislation and regulations are hindrances. i think it is important to see what we can do in order to do what we must do. first of all, we can create better credit situations all over europe: liquid markets. second, we can secure for consumers their being able to use a new range of services in other countries, but also being able to use services from other countries in their own country. you can move from country to country, having your pension with you, but also having the opportunity to pay your invoices which is, by the way, quite important. and you will be able to participate in all the new services, in parallel with banks, competing with banks, but also in innovating financial markets. it will create new jobs, but it will also give a more efficient european economy. i think, in order to achieve this, that we need to secure an open mind for all the new competition that will arise. that has to do with how we deal with the payment service directive. i think banks will still be as important as they are, but if we can open up new arenas and new opportunities for credit and for financing and new services, we must do that in order to help consumers. i think we need to implement a number of items of legislation that so far are not as implemented as they should be – the mortgage credit directive, taking one example – but also set all the other legislation we have in place. digitalisation is not new. it has dominated the financial sector for quite a long time. but the thing that we need to do is to ensure that we facilitate all the opportunities that digitalisation can provide for european financial markets. that is why this discussion is very important. once again, my congratulations to the rapporteur.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i have to thank so much for the different opinions and the views that have come out on this with 'retail financial services', which i am very grateful for. i myself, as rapporteur, have tried to achieve as much consensus as possible in parliament, because i believe that is important. the question we have before us about financial services is obviously important. it must be focused on the consumers, the citizens, so that they can have safe and secure systems in which to operate. i also think that we should of course try to move forward as quickly as possible. we can see that this is a complicated matter which will take some time, but we must start in a sensible and reasonable way. what we did in our report was to divide it into short and long term, which i think is very, very important to do. we must also look up and look at the younger generation. it's the younger generation that's gonna have to live with this. we must create the conditions for these products to be cheaper, better, more efficient and safer. that's the most important thing. and, of course, we must try to speed up if possible. i would like to thank once again all the shadow rapporteurs and all the members who have now taken part in the debate. i do feel that there is a fairly high degree of agreement on where we want to go and what we want to do, and i hope that we will continue to work well together on this. i also thank the commission for the proposal it has put forward.
mr president, i would like to underline one thing that is important for the whole of this discussion: if you want to have a stable financial sector then you need to have a stable economy with growth and investments. you cannot look upon the financial sector as isolated from the economy as such. what we can see today is that an important part of the financial instability in the european union is the lack of loans and investments, because that creates a vicious circle – decreasing investment, decreasing innovations, decreasing and undermined competitiveness, lower profits and increasingly non-performing loans and instability. those things are linked together, and that is why we need to look upon the requirements for stability from the whole economy as such, and not only from one part of the economy. the financial economy is not decoupled from the rest of the economy, and in europe banks are dominating regarding financing of smes but also financing on households and housing. they do a lot of different business, and that is why it is wrong to have the same sort of leverage rate for all sorts of banks. in the us, you have the banks that are one part of the financial sector, one part of the capital markets and may be focusing more on high—level business risks, while in europe you have the whole perspective. that is why it is important to go further on regarding stability – to have the risk based approach but also to ensure that banks can lend money in order to secure that we can have growth in the economy. that is why, when we discuss total loss-absorbing capacity (tlac) we need to include it in the banking recovery resolution directive and the discussion about the mrel, and not to invent higher capital requirements but to secure that we have more stable banks and more stable growth in the economy.
madam president, in recent years the security situation in and around europe has significantly worsened and has created challenges that no single country or organisation is able to face alone. these challenges therefore require the eu to act together with our allies. however, our current efforts to build the european defence union must also take into account the impact and constraints of the eu relationship with nato. twenty-two european member states belong to both the eu and nato and we do have common values, historically shared by both institutions. i firmly believe that an increase in european military capability, which i support, must be conducted in cooperation with nato: not as a supplement to nato but as a complement to it. europe must focus energy and resources on fixing those tasks that nato cannot do and is not equipped to do. that way, we will create both the security needed and the ability to deal with new tasks.
madam president, the enlargement process in the balkans is complex and challenging. if we do not handle it right it might be an extremely long process. meanwhile, russian influence in the region is increasing; pro-russian candidates are winning in bulgaria and moldova. part of bosnia – republika srpska – is helping to spread russian influence through energy and several other countries are exposed to organised information campaigns from the kremlin. if we do not find a way to stop this, russia will be a hurdle to the enlargement process and eventually will stop it. we cannot afford this. the eu is having an existential crisis and we need the balkan countries to show that the eu is still worth joining and that there is a reason for its existence. we need to see the flame of the will of these countries to join the eu. we need these countries as much as they need us. the integration of the balkans into the eu must be a strategic and urgent asset for us. we cannot allow those who want to destroy the eu to succeed. the enlargement process has to be faster and the commission must take it steadily forward.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, last month we had a fruitful exchange of views on the 2016 european semester on the basis of the report drafted by mr sant today, i am pleased to present a package which starts the 2017 european semester adopted by the commission last week. the european semester has become a key mechanism for the coordination of economic policies at eu level. it has played a crucial role in triggering and supporting urgently needed economic reforms in member states, and in the current context of a gradual but all-too-moderate recovery, there is no time for complacency. the messages included in the 2017 annual growth survey, and more generally in the autumn package, are a reflection of the new impetus that the commission has given to economic governance, building on the experience of the last few years. the aim is to identify where challenges remain and where the eu and member states should focus their efforts. in particular, faster progress on the implementation of structural reforms, in line with the country-specific recommendations, is needed to boost jobs and growth and to foster economic, social and territorial cohesion. as we have seen from the commission’s autumn economic forecast, economic growth in europe is expected to continue at a moderate pace. recently, we have seen some labour market gains and rising private consumption but, at the same time, there are a number of risks to growth and a weakening of supportive factors like low oil prices. however, the economic recovery is proving quite resilient. the eu’s gdp is now higher than before the crisis. all member states are set to grow next year. investment is starting to increase, supported in part by projects financed under the investment plan for europe. labour market developments are also more encouraging. employment is expected to grow faster this year than at any time since 2008, though unemployment still remains high. public finances continue to improve. in the eu, both average public deficit and the government debt-to-gdp ratio will continue to fall over the next two years. however, political uncertainty, slow global growth and weak global trade weigh on our growth prospects and we face a number of economic and social challenges. unemployment is still high. disparities persist across and within countries, both as regards economic performance and in terms of social challenges. public and private debt levels remain high in some member states and act as a drag on growth. in the financial sector there are still high levels of non-performing loans in several member states. the annual growth survey 2017 builds on the priorities set out in president juncker’s state of the union address, as well as on the bratislava road map. the over-arching message from the annual growth survey is that we have to redouble efforts along the virtuous triangle of boosting investment, pursuing structural reforms and ensuring responsible fiscal policies, and in doing so we have to focus on social fairness and delivering more inclusive growth. a new element this year is a communication on the fiscal stance of the euro area. the letter of intent that accompanies the state of the union speech announced that the commission will propose a positive fiscal stance for the euro area in support of the monetary policy of the european central bank. the communication provides the commission’s views on the appropriate euro area aggregate fiscal stance in the context of the institutional architecture of the economic and monetary union. of course, such an orientation should build on the legal frameworks set by the stability and growth pact and take into account the broader fiscal sustainability concerns. the recommendation on the economic policy of the euro area highlights five areas for action: reforms that favour growth and productivity; a supportive fiscal stance; job creation and social fairness; strengthening the banking sector, and completion of our economic and monetary union. the draft joint employment report shows that employment and the social situation are gradually improving, while stressing clearly that there is, nevertheless, no room for complacency. the main challenges concern notably high levels of inequality; still high rates of youth unemployment and of those not in employment, education or training; long-term unemployment; and the under-representation of women in the labour market. the unprecedented inflow of asylum seekers and other migrants also calls for comprehensive integration policies. the package also includes the 2017 alert mechanism report, which screens member states for risks of macroeconomic imbalances and identifies countries for in-depth reviews. thirteen in-depth reviews are announced in the alert mechanism report, namely for bulgaria, croatia, cyprus, finland, france, germany, ireland, italy, the netherlands, portugal, slovenia, spain and sweden. the results will be included in the country reports that the commission will issue towards the end of february 2017. the reduction of the number of in-depth reviews compared to the last year, when 19 such reviews were carried out, reflects the recent progress made in addressing imbalances. also, a number of vulnerabilities persist. the commission also issued opinions on the draft budgetary plans received from the euro area member states. we received those budgetary plans in october, and the findings have been summarised in a chapeau communication. this year, with regard to the member states under the preventive arm of the stability and growth pact, we found that for five countries – germany, estonia, luxembourg, slovakia and the netherlands – their draft budgetary plans are compliant with the requirements of the stability and growth pact. for four countries – ireland, malta, austria and latvia – the draft budgetary plans are broadly compliant. for six countries – belgium, italy, cyprus, lithuania slovenia and finland – the draft budgetary plans pose a risk of non-compliance. concerning the member states under the corrective arm of the stability and growth pact, for france, the draft budgetary plan is found to be broadly compliant with the requirements of sgp. for spain, the draft budgetary plan which was submitted under the no-policy-change scenario, is found to be at risk of non-compliance. also for portugal, the draft budgetary plan is found to be at risk of non-compliance. portugal, however, is expected to correct the excessive deficit this year and to transit to the preventive arm of the stability and growth pact next year. spain and portugal have also submitted reports on actions taken in the response to the council decisions to step up the excessive deficit procedures. the commission has in the meantime assessed the possible partial suspension of european structural and investment funds and engaged in a structured dialogue with the european parliament. taking into account the measures that spain and portugal have taken, the commission’s view is that the excessive deficit procedure should be kept in abeyance at this point for both countries. accordingly, the requirement for a proposal by the commission to suspend part of the european structural and investment funds is no longer present and there will be no such proposal by the commission. this autumn package is there to assess the eu and euro area dimension of the european semester. in the coming weeks and months, the work will focus more on the country-specific dimension of the process. the commission will present its country-specific analysis, including the in-depth reviews under the macroeconomic imbalances procedure and the country reports, towards the end of february next year. in the run-up to the country-specific recommendations, scheduled for may next year, the commission plans to intensify dialogue with the member states and the social partners to develop a common understanding of successful reform implementation.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for the statements. let me first of all underline one thing: the commission is the guardian of the treaty and it has the responsibility to act within the legal framework – not to change it or cause hesitancy about the rules. that is why it is important that all actions regarding the stability pact are consistent with what has been legislated in this chamber. i will make three points. the recovery we are seeing is moving at a slow pace. it is to a high degree dependent on a unique monetary policy that is not sustainable in a long—term perspective, but it is also based upon the credibility of the stability pact and the stability of public finances. do not risk that, commissioner, by calling the stability pact and its rules into question. secondly, reforms and the consolidation of public finances are the best way to avoid austerity. wherever you use deficits as a way to avoid structural reforms, you enter into austerity because austerity comes from spending more money than you have. as soon as you do that, you are creating problems for investment, for growth and for jobs. we can see this on the european map. thirdly, budgets must be improved with quality. member states must give priority to the spending that is most important before they increase the deficits. they must give priority to the important things and not have an excuse, in the end, for above minus 3%, for squeezing in the most important spending. they – and all of us – need to do it the other way round. we want to fight austerity and unemployment with growth and structural reforms. we do not believe in deficits and increased debt burdens. we think that europe shall go forward.
blue-card question. – mr pittella, i think we all agree that we need to fight austerity. the question is, in which way? i would like you to explain where you have seen that we can have reduced austerity through increased deficits, increased debt burdens, rising interest rates and political uncertainty. where have we seen that? austerity comes from overspending, spending more money than you have. reforms and growth come from strategic and responsible budgeting. so please explain where you have seen that increased deficits and increased debt burdens have given growth and unemployment. i have seen things the other way around.
for the efdd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. once again i am witnessing the eu's grand plans - plans that have not worked before and will not work this time. we who criticize the construction of a united states of europe are dismissed with contempt as populists. but let me remind you that it is the common, small people that you dismiss. it's the ordinary, little people who go to work, who struggle every day to pay their taxes. these are the people you so contemptuously call populists. they are ordinary people who are worried about their daily lives, how they will get by, how their family will have enough money to live on each month. it's the ordinary people who, unlike you, realize that your dream doesn't work in practice. these are people who realise that the member states are fundamentally different, not least in terms of economic conditions. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play its full part in the world economic and social order. now you're predicting that the economy will grow and that next year will be better. it's like i'm predicting it's gonna start snowing in an hour. it's just a guess and a hope. you have completely lost the confidence of ordinary people, as is shown by the declining turnout every time we have elections to the european parliament. as long as you continue to pursue this as an elitist project and do not turn a deaf ear to the concerns and despair of the little man, this project called the european union is doomed to fail.
mr president, the recovery in the eu is gaining ground. there are a number of positive developments signalling the recovery. however, recovery remains fragile. indeed member states need to continue to pursue structural reforms to make their economies more competitive and build confidence in their economic and business environment. but we again face broader uncertainty. the election of donald trump in the usa as president reflects the resurgence of protectionism and opposition to tpp and ttip. it means that the benefits of openness and free trade are again under serious threat. we cannot afford this. we must uphold openness and facilitate the further integration of eu companies in global value chains. we need this as a source of jobs for europeans. finishing ceta is a way to press the usa to keep up openness. it could not have come at better time as it creates immediate market opportunities for american companies, which will have to find alternatives against protectionism in the usa. that is why i urge the commission and parliament to finish ceta as soon as possible and to continue the implementation of the key reforms in this report. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – we have to have sound economies in order to be involved in global value chains in europe in a global economy. the economies that are in deficit cannot be part of it, because they will just create and continue spreading the deficits around. i think that the involvement of european companies in the creation of jobs for europeans has to be made on sound ground.
blue-card question. – i asked the leader of the socialist group earlier today where he had seen that increased deficits and debt burdens had given rise to growth and jobs instead of more austerity, and he really did not give any examples. so maybe i could ask my colleague here where he has seen that an economic strategy with increasing debts and deficits has given rise to growth and jobs, and not to austerity, because in reality this is what we see. where we have had lax budget policies, we have seen increasing interest rates and rising unemployment.
‒ i have voted against this own-initiative report on financial services for individuals. there are major problems in this area. the differences between national systems are large, and it will be difficult for citizens to have an overview and make the right choices. there is a high risk that transnational companies will dominate the market with aggressive marketing. i do not think that the interests of consumers are sufficiently protected. that is why i am voting no.
‒ deepening european defence cooperation, respecting defence policy as a national concern. this is my starting point for the common defence and security policy and, consequently, for today's resolution on 'a european defence union'. the christian democrats' european policy programme advocates increased european operational capacity to contribute to international peace efforts and that eu countries, in the wake of a declining us involvement in the outside world, must take greater military responsibility for their neighbourhood. the european parliament has voted in favour of the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover the transport of dangerous goods. the eu's rapid reaction force should be able to be used, the party stressed. i voted for the resolution because it strikes a good balance between european action and coordination with nato, in line with what my party is advocating. i voted in favour of the proposal for a multinational force to replace and develop the rapid reaction force, as increased capacity to respond quickly to nearby crises has proved to be absolutely necessary. i voted against the wording of 'european armed forces' and the financing of military operations with eu funds instead of national budgets, because of my and the party's views on national sovereignty.
in writing. - i have voted against this report, which i regard as a document of militaristic rearmament. the eu is supposed to be a union for peace, but the proposals in the adopted report are the opposite of peace. i strongly oppose the demands for increased defence spending (2% of gdp), the creation of multinational forces and the creation of an eu headquarters to plan and conduct military operations in crisis areas. i support the right of all military personnel to organise in trade unions, but in a part-vote of the report the text on this was unfortunately linked with the text on the alleged need for a common european defence, which meant that i could not vote in favour. the eu should stop militarisation and armament and instead consistently promote peaceful political and diplomatic means of resolving conflicts. i believe that europe and the world today need dialogue, détente and disarmament. that is why i am voting against this report.
‒ we have today voted in favour of the report on a european defence union. we have not, however, supported proposals for the eu to have its own military forces, its own financing of military capabilities or its own decision-making on military operations. these are matters which are and will remain matters of national sovereignty and between member states. we believe, however, that it is important to safeguard solidarity between member states and to develop defence cooperation between member states. the common capacity to act against terrorism, disinformation, economic warfare and political destabilisation must be strengthened, as must the capacity to lead military peacekeeping and peace-building operations - all without compromising the fact that nato is the common structure responsible for the common defence of european territory and peace. we support the proposals to increase the budget for national defence but stress that it is up to each member state to decide on its objectives and the rate at which it wants and can achieve them.
in writing. the deteriorating security situation in the eu's immediate neighbourhood has brought the question of the development of the common security and defence policy (csdp) to the fore. we swedish social democrats believe that we need a strong and united eu to be able to face the foreign policy challenges we face today and we are very positive about making the cfsp more effective and increasing cooperation between the member states on these issues. security and defence policy is one of several important tools at the eu's disposal to help create a more stable and secure world. we therefore wished the report to take a broader view of the concept of security in order to better reflect the priorities of the eu global strategy (eugs). a greater focus on the vital balance between civilian and military capabilities would have been desirable in order to effectively provide crisis management, stabilisation and conflict prevention. several of the proposals presented in the report, including increased funding through eu funds, targeted support for defence research and the defence industry, and the stated call for the establishment of a european defence union go further than we would like to see. we believe that the decision-making powers in the field of security and defence policy should remain national. for this reason, we decided not to support the report as a whole.
‒ we have today voted in favour of the report on a european defence union. we have not, however, supported proposals for the eu to have its own military forces, its own financing of military capabilities or its own decision-making on military operations. these are matters which are and will remain matters of national sovereignty and between member states. we believe, however, that it is important to safeguard solidarity between member states and to develop defence cooperation between member states. the common capability to counter terrorism, disinformation, economic warfare and political destabilisation must be strengthened, as must the capability to lead military peacekeeping and peace-building operations. all this without compromising the fact that nato is the common structure responsible for the common defence of european territory and peace. we support the proposals to increase the budget for national defence but stress that it is up to each member state to decide on its objectives and the rate at which it wants and can achieve them.
in writing. - i've lowered my vote. the report deals with aid effectiveness, follow-up to the paris 2005, accra 2008 and busan 2011 summits. it contains many good writings on the inclusion of ngos, initiatives to combat poverty, the importance of human rights and support for the new development goals. the report, however, lacks a clear criticism and condemnation of the eu's use of third countries, even with aid, to close its borders to people who are fleeing. the report also makes no reference to the eu's increased militarisation policy, which in turn contributes to more war and international insecurity. what also shines with its absence are women's rights, srhr and lgbtq rights in the context of development cooperation. with that in mind, i have decided to abstain.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the bombing of aleppo continues. in total, over 300,000 people have died in the conflict, and millions have been displaced. the eu has taken in many migrants, while the gulf states nearby do almost nothing. this is despite the fact that they often share the same culture and language. but what's going in the right direction in this conflict is that the territory is shrinking for the killers in isis. the offensive in mosul and in many other places is moving in the right direction, and i am pleased to see that several villages have been liberated from this terrorist group. however, the fighting is far from over. we in europe must be more prepared than ever for new acts of terrorism to occur here, given that it will be more difficult for islamist terrorists to join isis. i would like to stress, however, the failure of the eu's common foreign policy in this conflict. the eu member states are kindly allowed to sit on the sidelines and watch while the undemocratically elected eu commission sets the agenda. what has this led to? the european parliament has been reduced to waiting for the united states and russia to do something and then sitting here voting on resolutions. europe's and especially my country's role in the world was much stronger before the eu existed. i don't want to be standing here in a year's time voting on another resolution. if you in the european commission are going to do our foreign policy for us, we want to see results as soon as possible.
madam president, yesterday the head of un international aid reported that the number of people living under siege in syria has more than doubled over the last year. we are talking about one million people living under the most horrendous circumstances: isolated, starving, denied all humanitarian and medical assistance. recently i travelled to syria myself. i was invited by the patriarch of the syrian orthodox church, his holiness ignatius aphrem. he took me to meetings with internally displaced persons (idps), with former hostages of the islamic state and with leaders of the vulnerable christian minorities. the overall message from all these suffering groups was very clear: please do not forget us, help us halt the violence. the attacks on innocent civilians must stop. there is only one alternative to fighting to the bitter end. this only alternative is negotiations where all sides have to make concessions. let us step up our efforts from the european side to make this possible. let us increase our political pressure, on russia especially, and on the regional actors feeding this very conflict.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the best way to support democracy, improve respect for human rights and the rule of law and push for peace negotiations with the kurds is through accession negotiations. that is what we greens have always stood for, and in principle we have not changed our mind. however, there must be someone to negotiate with, as it has become clear that this is no longer the case with president erdoğan. instead, everything is going in the wrong direction for the president's drive to get closer to the eu. if the death penalty bill were to pass, it would be, as mrs mogherini said, the "nail in the coffin" of membership. at the moment it is very difficult to see any other way out than to temporarily freeze the accession negotiations. but that is not enough, we should also freeze the turkey agreement. i'm not saying we should stop giving money to refugees, but we should stop sending refugees back to turkey instead of becoming dependent on a man who uses refugees as blackmail against us. if all member states take joint responsibility for the refugees who come here, we will not have a major problem. (the speaker accepted to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
(blue card) i said the opposite, that we should not stop sending money to the refugees in turkey. there are different parts of the refugee agreement with turkey. what i'm talking about is we should stop sending refugees back from europe to turkey. turkey is not a safe country for refugees to come to, and that is why we should put an end to it. but of course we will make sure that money is going to the refugee camps in turkey, in jordan, in lebanon, in all the countries that are currently hosting the largest group of refugees. only a very, very small percentage of them come here.
madam president, i would like to thank you. erdoğan's prisons are filling up with political prisoners, the media is being shut down and ngos are being banned. lgbtq people are increasingly exposed to hate crimes. our colleagues in the hdp have been imprisoned. i want to say to you, my colleagues in the hdp, that you stand for hope, for democracy, for peace, for the future. and you have all our solidarity. what are we gonna do now? what is required of us? first of all, i'd like to say: end the shameful deal with turkey to stop refugees. it is hypocritical to cooperate with erdoğan in this way. european countries themselves must take responsibility for the reception of refugees in a dignified manner. moreover, as many have said here, we should freeze membership negotiations with the erdoğan regime. however, the negotiations shall resume once the rule of law is respected. last but not least: support all the democracy fighters in the hdp, in the women's organizations, in the media, among journalists and to all those who stand up for democracy in turkey.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the turkey deal should never have been made. it was just a way for turkey to blackmail the eu. that is what i and many other critics of the european union have said all along. the €3.9 billion paid out so far could have done an incredibly great deal more in the areas close to the conflicts. instead, credit cards will be issued in turkey unconditionally. so it means giving an economic stimulus package to erdoğan at this very sensitive time. since the deal was signed, erdoğan has threatened that if his demands are not met, he will once again allow migrants to cross into europe. europe cannot cope with another influx of migrants. the only solution at the moment is for each member state to have its borders and its asylum policy back, so that we can signal to migrants that there is plenty in our member states. it is not enough to freeze these negotiations, but to throw them in the trash and close them.
madam president, i would like to thank you. when we debated the situation in the west bank in this house in may, we could see that there had been a noticeable change in 2016. the demolition of palestinian homes and of eu-funded aid projects in the west bank increased dramatically, while the expansion of israeli settlements continued at an unabated pace. although the eu demanded at the time that israel immediately stop the demolitions and the member states even discussed compensation claims for the destroyed eu-funded aid projects, unfortunately we have not seen any improvement in the situation. instead, since may, another 352 palestinian buildings have reportedly been destroyed. of these, 106 were funded by european donors, and in total over 3 400 palestinians have been affected by this destruction. it's not just about destruction either. i am convinced that for every palestinian home demolished, the prospects for lasting peace are eroded. we are exploring the possibility of a two-state solution. this does not mean that we can in any way give in or give up, but it is very positive to hear the image of hope that you described, mrs mogherini, about the hope that was aroused at the funeral of shimon peres. let's take it and make it political! we have to make sure that we get back on track and can make sure that we get a two-state solution.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. today we have supported a report on the defence union, and now we are discussing another report which bears many similarities to it. in general, our discussions in this parliament have been moving more and more towards the creation of a common military capability or a common army, and there are wish lists for all kinds of military activities paid for with eu funds. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. i have absolutely no problem with cooperation, but i think cooperation is very good cooperation and coordination. for the world also looks different from what it did just ten years ago. our security situation is also different. of course, we must adapt to the fact that we are living in new times and a whole new world. however, this does not mean that i see the same solutions as those in the report, which i also think go further than what mrs mogherini has just spoken about. i do not think, for example, that the solution is to base future security and defence policy on a common territorial defence, including nuclear weapons. another strange idea is that the eu should be able to enter the member states in case of riots. i do not think that this is covered by article 43 of the lisbon treaty, which lists the military activities that are permitted. that would require a treaty amendment, which would take a very long time and which i do not think is on the table at the moment.
in writing. – the ongoing and escalating militarisation of our policies and the ‘machoisation’ of our politics is quickly turning the geopolitical situation in europe into a nightmare as vile as the current public discourse, only much more dangerous. our already very unstable geopolitical situation will not be improved by sabre-rattling where everyone plays follow-the-leader. as we in europe would most probably find ourselves, literally speaking, in the line of fire, should a major conflict break out involving russia, we ought to tread very lightly now that the fundamentals of our security structure is in shatters. the military escalation between russia and nato on the former’s borders is a historically well-known recipe for disaster. instead of directing our scarce resources towards military defence and cooperation with nato, europe should focus on de-escalation, diplomacy and dialogue and empowering democrats in the european neighbourhood with whom we can forge new alliances for peace and true stability.
deputising for the author. – madam president, in an increasingly digitalised world, less—qualified persons have reduced employment opportunities, are more vulnerable to long—term unemployment and have more difficulties in participating fully in society. according to the oecd, having a high proportion of adults with low proficiency in basic and digital skills is linked with lower levels of productivity and lower prospects for growth and competitiveness. this is detrimental to the individuals concerned and also costly to the economy and society as a whole. nevertheless, the development of new ways of working and future—oriented sectors has a key role in relation to the types of skills needed. skills mismatches and skills shortages can negatively affect not only productivity and growth but also the social situation within and across member states. the commission proposal recommended that member states build on existing initiatives or policies and set up a skills guarantee, allowing those who have left the education system without completing upper secondary education or equivalent, and who are not eligible for support under the youth guarantee, to access upskilling pathways. against this background, i have a number of questions for the commission. the commission calls on member states to draw up, within one year of the adoption of the proposal, an action plan for implementation. has the commission proposed a mechanism or a body to support them in the preparation and monitoring of this plan? various stakeholders should be associated in the preparation of the plan: how will member states be encouraged to involve civil society, education providers, trade unions, employers, businesses and industry in the decision—making process? does the commission believe it is possible to cover this initiative without additional funding? the use of different eu funds, like the european social fund and erasmus plus, has been mentioned. does the commission envisage the introduction of appropriate procedures to enable the combination of different funds without creating red tape? what strategy will the commission use for the involvement of member states in this non—legally-binding initiative? lastly, one of the main reasons for illiteracy is school drop-out. how does the commission envisage tackling this issue through its recommendation?
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would also like to thank commissioner thyssen for his clarity. this is absolutely a national task. it's a second chance for young adults and older adults. there is money at the eu level in the form of erasmus+, but also elsewhere. i really hope that we can use this money in a sensible way, because it is good for all of us. we live in a time and a society that is almost breaking apart. there are so many people who are afraid and unhappy and unused. i think that's what these proposals are really about, namely, to have a chance to develop as a human being and to become a citizen and to become a member of society. i therefore think it will be very exciting to work on this guarantee of competence, on these opportunities, during the time we have ahead of us for the remainder of the mandate.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the environmental goods agreement (ega) negotiations were launched in july 2014 and are today at a finalisation stage after two years of intense negotiations, comprising 17 rounds of talks involving 44 world trade organisation member countries, including the 28 eu member states. building on the strong political momentum that was created by g20 leaders in early september, to redouble efforts to find an agreement by the end of this year, we now have a unique window of opportunity to conclude a deal at the ministerial meeting that is scheduled for 3 and 4 december in geneva. if we do that, we will send out a very strong signal that trade policy can contribute positively to environmental protection and fight against climate change by eliminating tariffs on a list of environmentally sound products. it is doable, but we still have a lot to work to do. so let me address some of the questions you have posed. first you ask whether the commission can ensure that the eu is conducting these negotiations pursuing primarily environmental-protection objectives and not influenced by specific sectoral interests to reduce tariffs on a certain number of goods. let me reiterate that the key guiding principle of the ega negotiation is to eliminate tariffs on a list of goods that are environmentally sound and contribute positively to environmental protection and to fighting climate change. in the years of negotiations, ega members have closely scrutinised all nominated products from the environmental perspective, with a view to removing those that raised doubts. on the eu side, we have supported products crucial for renewable energy generation, products that are energy efficient due to their particular role with regard to the implementation of the paris agreement and the shared goal of limiting global warming to 2°. the negotiations also cover imported environmental products to contribute to clean air, soil and water, products that are used for waste management, environmental analysis and monitoring. in this process the negotiators have consulted relevant international organisations such as the united nations environmental programme and the international renewable energy agency and we have, of course, also sought the views of various national environmental agencies, environmental ngos and industry. furthermore, customs officials have helped to ensure that the environmental products are clearly defined and can be differentiated from other similar products in the customs nomenclature. now, let me clarify too that, while environmental aspects are, of course, key in these negotiations, they are also trade negotiations, and these negotiations will be positive for us, especially for smes, which will be able internationally to trade environmentally sound products at less cost and with less burdensome procedures. the final agreement will need to be environmentally credible, commercially relevant and balanced so that we can have an acceptable deal for all the parties. secondly, you asked how the commission intended to tackle possible market imbalances for those european industries that would continue to face non-tariff barriers when trying to enter foreign markets. non-tariff barriers and services related to trade in environmental goods do play an important role in the green sector and, on the eu side, we have been vocal on the need to address the market imbalances and to include a work programme to look into this. in the negotiations we, from the eu, strongly advocated a broader agenda but that has not received so much support from other parties. efforts have now focused on crafting the list of which tariffs will be eliminated, but we have managed to obtain a commitment on a future-oriented agreement that will allow for a work programme, so we can start on non-tariff issues in the future, with a view to identifying non-tariff barriers and also related services in the green sector and consider ways to facilitate trade further. so that is where we are. i hope very much that we can conclude this in a couple of weeks and i am looking forward to the debate.
for the ppe group. i am not going to go into that. abbreviations are controversial in trade policy, we've learned, whether it's ceta, ttip, isds. personally, i think "usa" is probably the most controversial abbreviation of all. but the ega environmental goods agreement should not be controversial. a green fta combining free trade and sustainability should be inclusive, but there are threats to it. there are at least two threats that i'm concerned about. one is traditional protectionism, i.e. all those who want to preserve the customs duties which now protect them. this is true whether it is the car industry in europe that does not want lower tariffs on electric cars or whether it is the train manufacturers that do not want lower tariffs on trains. although they come to me from time to time in my role on the environment committee and tell me that they are indeed the most environmentally friendly in the world and the best in the world, they do everything they can to stay off the list of environmentally friendly products in this context. or the 22 member states that are fighting to keep tariffs on bicycles, that is, the zero-emission means of transport. that kind of protectionism threatens this agreement. but so do the supposedly green ones, the ones who are looking for the perfect definition of what is an eco-friendly product, something that is so sealed that almost nothing can pass through. i think there should be another definition. i think we should decide that anything that replaces something we know is bad for the environment should be considered greener. something that can substitute can become a small comparative advantage by lowering the tariffs for what is just a little bit better, so we do something good for the environment. i think that after trump and after our own free trade negotiations with canada, we really need to succeed. this may be the success we need, but it requires that we now actually dare to bet on this in europe and not let the supposedly green or protectionist parties put the wheels in the wheel.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you, colleague julie girling, for your contribution to the negotiations. many of us would have liked to go further, but now at least the eu is showing its best side and its strength. we can tackle many of the problems we see - people suffering from shortened life spans, caused deaths, asthma, allergies and other things that lead not only to great personal suffering for many european citizens but also to very high costs in our societies, both in terms of physical infrastructure and people's clean health. i think those who criticise the european union for not delivering for its citizens should take a close look at the basis of this and what it might do. my party, the centre party, has always said that we want to see a europe that is firm in areas where the eu should have competence. this is an area where the eu should have more competence and more power to improve the quality of the environment and also the quality of our citizens. the eu has shown its strength here, and we want to see more of that in the future.
mr president, i would like it to read as follows: ‘underlines the need for the european union to develop a stronger export control regime for security and defence—related goods and services; calls on the commission in consultation with the eeas to develop a proposal on how to strengthen the implementation of the eight criteria of common position 994/2008/cfsp on arms exports, under which weapons, ammunition, defence equipment and technologies can be exported to third countries’.
‒ the eu-canada trade agreement has been negotiated for many years, and the commission has been keen to keep the process as open and transparent as possible. the trade agreement offers major export opportunities for european companies, provides opportunities for better economic development in the eu and canada and strengthens the important transatlantic link. the agreement contains more progressive dimensions than the existing trade agreements. the report calls on the court of justice of the european union to review the compatibility of the trade agreement with the treaties. i believe that the legal assessment of the trade agreement carried out by the commission is fully adequate and have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. – i voted against this report. air pollution in europe causes 400 000 deaths per year and the national emissions ceilings directive is a crucial piece of legislation which is meant to tackle this problem by placing appropriate limits on certain key pollutants which cause high levels of damage to public health. the agreement on updating this directive which has come out of negotiations between the parliament, commission and council is unacceptably weak. it has significantly lowered ambition on a range of pollutants to the extent that it is now estimated that this weakened agreement will lead to an extra 10 000 lives lost every year, compared to the original proposal. intense lobbying from agri-business has led to a text which crucially no longer includes a cap for methane as well as a lowering of the limit for ammonia, two pollutants which contribute significantly towards premature mortality and adverse health outcomes in the eu. for these reasons i voted against endorsing this weak first reading agreement and would have preferred the three institutions to return to the negotiating table to considerably improve upon this legislation.
in writing. ‒ air pollution in the union is one of the biggest health problems we face. every year, people die from toxic particles in the air. it is not only a health tragedy but also a huge cost to communities across the eu. the point here is to raise ambition and get at the hazardous substances in the air. i have long pushed for binding action in this area - here we must continue to work for an ambitious climate policy that puts the well-being of citizens at the centre.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the common security and defence policy (csdp), as the christian democrats see the need for increased european cooperation on defence matters, including defence equipment coordination and research. the resolution rightly stresses the need for coordination with nato. the emphasis on 'strategic autonomy' is not a problem in this context, as there should be the possibility for the eu to act when nato neither can nor should. i voted in favour of the funding of eu operations from national budgets and against the 'eu army' doctrine. i voted in favour of a paper on 'a permanent eu headquarters for csdp missions and operations, civilian and military', which also stressed that this would not be a copy of nato structures, but would instead provide the necessary basis for planning and management capacity for csdp missions and operations.
‒ i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy (csdp). the focus was on how to strengthen the common capacity, which is particularly important today. it is about our ability to work together effectively to protect ourselves from warfare as well as to lead military peacekeeping operations. i have, however, voted against the eu having a common military defence or against the eu investing in a military defence. cooperation within the eu is necessary to secure our environment and sweden, but matters relating to funding and military links are matters which should be decided solely by the member states themselves.
in writing. we swedish social democrats believe that it is important for the eu to adapt to security policy developments by using the existing tools of the eu's common defence and security policy (csdp) more effectively. we welcome the fact that the report examines various possibilities for improving the efficiency of cooperation between member states in the context of the csfp. we also welcome in principle the new proposal to strengthen the eu's ability to support partner countries in capacity building in support of security and development (cbsd). however, we would like to stress the importance of respecting the oecd criteria for official development assistance (oda) in decisions on how military operations are to be financed from the eu aid budget. that is why we decided to abstain in the vote on the two amendments to paragraph 29 which seek to reject or reject the proposal altogether. we also do not support the report's consistent calls for the csdp to evolve towards a common defence, as we believe that defence policy should remain a national competence. we also believe that it is important that csdp measures continue to be used solely for peace-keeping and conflict prevention outside the union, in accordance with the provisions of the lisbon treaty, and not to be developed into internal defence. since the text expressly calls for this, we decided not to vote for the report.
‒ i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy (csdp). the focus was on how to strengthen the common capacity, which is particularly important today. it is about our ability to work together effectively to protect ourselves from warfare as well as to lead military peacekeeping operations. i have, however, voted against the eu having a common military defence or against the eu investing in a military defence. cooperation within the eu is necessary to secure our environment and sweden, but matters relating to funding and military links are matters which should be decided solely by the member states themselves.
in writing. ‒ i cannot in good conscience vote for the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy. this is not only because i am a pacifist by principle and cannot condone the use of violence under any circumstances. in addition, i truly believe that there are more efficient and constructive methods for implementing peace and security in our european neighbourhood. in fact, it is my firm conviction that the current militarisation of our policies and the ‘machoisation’ of our politics and public discourse only worsens an already very unstable geopolitical situation. we in europe would most probably find ourselves, literally speaking, in the line of fire, should a major conflict break out involving russia. we ought to tread very lightly now that the fundamentals of our security structure is in shatters. the military escalation between russia and nato on the former’s borders is a historically well-known recipe for disaster. instead of directing our scarce resources towards military defence and cooperation with nato, europe should focus on de-escalation, diplomacy and dialogue, and empowering democrats in the european neighbourhood with whom we can forge new alliances for peace and true stability.
‒ in a world where information flows play an increasingly important role in people's perception of what is happening in the world around them, it is important that we mark against those who want to do us harm. while the report goes beyond its scope in several respects, it is important that the eu takes these challenges seriously and finds concrete policy measures to address disinformation. i voted for this report, despite the somewhat incorrect scope of the directive. the former is a sovereign state, the latter a terrorist organization. the report as a whole, however, fills a vacuum, especially as the challenges are becoming more and more tangible and pressing for the union and its functioning.
in writing. for us swedish social democrats, the eu is a cooperation in which we rely on free debate and free media. we would like to see initiatives for more open debate and critical source-based analysis to raise awareness of misinformation circulating in the eu, but we do not think that the report takes a particularly constructive stance in this respect. the fact that the text deals with only a few actors when the use of propaganda is occurring in several countries around the world is problematic from our point of view. we particularly object to the placing of a non-state actor, more specifically the terrorist organisation is/daish, in the same context and in a similar way as a state actor (russia). we believe that this gives isis/daesh a form of legitimacy that the eu has tried to avoid for many years and that we cannot support. in the end, this is why we chose not to take a position on the report on strategic communication.
‒ it was unfortunate that the fotygas report on eu strategic communication to combat propaganda placed the problem of russia a nation state alongside that of daish/isil a terrorist sect. i asked the alde shadow rapporteur to negotiate with the rapporteur that the report be sent back to committee for consideration. i was unable to do so, so i decided to support the report anyway, because despite its unfortunate format it raises important issues which i do not feel i can vote against. organised disinformation campaigns against europe are happening daily, but we should not equate russia with daesh/isil in any letter.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this objection to the commission proposal to renew approval for the active substance bentazone, a broad-use herbicide. the commission is proposing to approve bentazone for the maximum time limit of 15 years even though the data available has substantial gaps and whilst it is also a substance which can easily leak into groundwater and is suspected of interfering with human reproduction. no active substance should be approved for safe use without the essential data which proves its safety. the european commission must request and assess the relevant missing information before deciding to renew the authorisation. the european ombudsman earlier this year called on the commission to severely restrict the use of this process known as the confirmatory data procedure. the commission however has ignored this recommendation and infringed the precautionary principle by proposing the approval of bentazone. for these reasons, i voted against its reauthorisation and called on the commission to withdraw its proposal and submit a new one.
author. – madam president, violence against women is not a private issue. it is a serious crime and it is widespread. behind every victim, there is a heart-breaking story of a broken life. too many women and girls today live in fear and despair, bleeding in their minds and bodies, hurt and crushed by guilt and shame. i have visited shelters from sweden to greece, witnessing amazing examples of civil society taking women and girls by the hand to help them recover their dignity and rebuild their life. however, women at home continue to be beaten, and often children witness terrible scenes. in public there are cases where even going to a swimming pool or to a music festival poses a danger of harassment or rape, and persecution in the social media has become a global phenomenon affecting an entire generation. let us be clear: this is often about men attacking women out of jealousy or frustration, under the influence of alcohol or for revenge. often they just cannot accept a woman being strong, independent and modern, making her own choices and then daring to live them. let us talk about lucia, an italian woman disfigured by acid. she had the courage to denounce her former partner. she said: ‘it is not your fault to have chosen the wrong man. it is his fault to have hit you.’ the time has come to say no to sexism and to build a culture of respect for women and girls – and religion and culture can never be excuses for the abuse of women. on the international day for the elimination of violence against women, with our joint resolution, let us give a voice to women who are victims of violence. let us help them to break the vicious circle of silence and loneliness. together we call on the member states to implement the anti-trafficking directive, the european protection order and the directive on protection of victims, and to ratify the istanbul convention. we also ask them to speed up the accession of the eu to the convention, to strengthen our tools, to combat and prevent violence against women and to protect victims. madam president, the epp group will continue to be committed to a policy of zero tolerance on violence against women.
writer. president. - the debate is closed. no country has done enough to combat violence against women and girls. the threat of violence is reducing our living space - it's not about anything less important than that. the istanbul convention, or the council of europe convention on violence against women, is an important tool for all of us who are fighting violence against women, not least because it puts violence against women in a context of power and structures. the convention also requires all countries to take a comprehensive approach to ending gender-based violence through public funding of women's shelters, through preventive measures, through the requirement of consent legislation. however, we can also see that we live in a culture which accepts men's violence against women. otherwise, it would have been stopped. public figures who have abused the bodies of women and girls continue to be held back. just look at the newly elected president donald trump, the former head of the imf and the french presidential candidate dominique strauss-kahn, the film director roman polanski. moreover, several countries still permit a prostitution industry in which women and girls can be bought by men. in such a culture, it becomes difficult to establish justice and to deliver convictions for rape cases, for example. it is not only in sweden that convictions for rape shine with their absence. that is the truth throughout europe. here in europe, the political will is lacking. earlier today we voted on a report calling for a rearmament. is it more important to you to keep your hands on guns than to protect women's bodies and women's rights? it's not holding! the fight for equality, for women's bodies, against macho culture, must be allowed to take the central place it should in this house. we demand that the istanbul convention be ratified by the eu, by the member states. at the same time, we also want an eu strategy and funding to combat violence against women. we have a lot of work to do. we hope that the commission and the council will join us in this work. the european parliament will demand action.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, i am sorry to see that our colleagues on the french populist far right are using women who have been victims of violence to campaign for elections. this is a scandal. i would like to ask mrs montel the following question: what do you say to the millions of women, white and non-white, who have been victims of sexual violence, who have been beaten, who have been killed by white european men in the western world?
madam president, i would like to thank you. november 25th is a day to mourn that we have not come any further. it is a day to mourn because we do not want to see violence in close relationships for what it really is: a security policy problem. i am committed to the eu being at the forefront of human rights research, but choose to ignore both by excluding intimate partner violence from the new security agenda. we have therefore taken a big step backwards in this matter. the ratification of the istanbul convention by all member states, including the eu, is an important step that must be taken. if we are serious about ending intimate partner violence, we must understand that it is not a woman's issue that belongs to the private sphere. if we are to get away from violence at the societal levels, we must get away from violence in the international arenas. we cannot therefore speak of defence policy and gender-based violence separately, but we must acknowledge the link. it is when we create a security policy for people and not for age-old national borders that we can stop mourning. it is then that we can seriously eradicate the problem that constantly threatens the existence of women.
mr president, i would like to thank you. today we are discussing a very important issue, namely the eu action plan against illegal wildlife trade. the global demand for this illegal trade is growing. in many countries the penalty is far too low, and the risk of a criminal going to prison is far too small. the profits made in this trade are enormous. the eu is not only a country of origin and destination but also a country of transit. we need common legislation to close the loopholes in the regulatory framework. the worms in the network that make us not good enough to stop this illegal trade. this is a transboundary environmental issue to prevent the extinction of animals and plants. we need tougher rules. i welcome the report.
madam president, commissioner, how we deal with nord stream 2 will be a test of whether we are serious in what we talk about. the third energy package was designed in order to tear down monopolies, not to allow them. the whole idea with the energy union is to increase security, to bring us together and to secure our supplies and ensure that we cannot be exposed to political projections from someone who would like to use energy for those means. however, nord stream 2 is contrary to all that. it has a political aim: to divide and undermine european cooperation. it will establish a new architecture for european energy markets. it will give gazprom a dominant role, and it will undermine the security of a number of european countries – not only their energy security, but also their security in a wider sense. that is why it is important to hear from the commission about what they are going to do with nord stream 2. we can’t at the same time say that we want to increase unity, cooperation, solidarity, energy union and secure the implementation of our legislation while allowing this to happen to undermine the security of a number of member states in the european union, as well as security in europe. so i think the question is for the commission to deal with, and to prove that we are serious about what we talk about in front of our neighbours and members.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, vice-president timmermans, ombudsman o’reilly, i am happy to have you here in plenary this morning and i am sure that i speak on behalf of the whole committee on petitions when i say i am sure that all of us appreciate our mutual good cooperation. the european ombudsman is doing an excellent job, especially in constantly using the possibilities to initiate own-initiative inquiries. it is important for democracy in general, and for the perception of the european institutions in particular, that the ombudsman raises sometimes very difficult and sensitive questions and also investigates our own working methods and procedures. i am very pleased that the ombudsman keeps pushing the european institutions to improve transparency in all different fields and bodies. especially in these days of populism and euroscepticism it is crucial that the institutions live up to the expectations of eu citizens concerning transparency and good conduct. i therefore believe that the eu needs to take the issue of revolving doors much more seriously, otherwise the reputation of the european commission and the european union itself is put at risk. therefore i welcome that commission president juncker yesterday proposed to tighten the code of conduct for commissioners. however, i agree with the ombudsman that some positions will not cease to be problematic simply because two or three years have passed. the rules therefore need to be made more explicit and possibly also include a range of sanctions for any breaches of the rules. something that i would like to have seen more strongly reflected in the report is to ensure that the european ombudsman is able to order documents to be released from the commission when needed. to be able to perform her duties with regard to maladministration of the european institutions, the ombudsman needs to be able to act on her own behalf and not to be dependent on the goodwill of the european institutions. it is in all our interests if we want to be perceived as credible in these difficult days. once again, i thank you very much for an excellent cooperation.
writer. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. swedish book publisher gui minhai has been detained without trial since october last year after chinese authorities arrested him in thailand. formally, he is accused of a traffic accident, but in reality, his only crime is that he owns a publishing house and a bookstore that publishes and sells books that are not appreciated by the chinese regime. minhai was born in china but is a swedish citizen and therefore also an eu citizen. minhai has now been imprisoned for more than a year. he has extremely limited access to his family. his daughter hasn't heard from her father since june. it's a terrible situation. swedish authorities have not yet been granted access to minhai. despite repeated efforts, the chinese counterparts refuse to cooperate, which is completely unacceptable. we condemn all human rights violations in china, such as arbitrary arrests, forced confessions and secret detention. we condemn the most serious violation of freedom of expression in china and the repressive measures being used. china must release all peaceful regime critics anti-corruption activists, lawyers and journalists, including gui minhai.
author. – mr president, we are debating a significant urgent resolution regarding the case of the swedish book publisher, gui minhai. mr minhai has been imprisoned without trial and without legal assistance since last autumn after being abducted in thailand. thanks to three of mr minhai’s colleagues, who were detained as well, we now know how the chinese regime treats publishers who dare to criticise the system. they arrest them, keep them in solitary confinement and force them to appear in front of tv cameras. this is unacceptable. it is against international conventions. freedom of speech and freedom of expression are fundamental human rights. china persistently violates these rights. it is time for the eu to speak out against the communist regime in beijing. it is time for the immediate release of mr gui minhai. (applause)
writer. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. gui minhai has been imprisoned for over a year now, and swedish authorities have only been able to see him on two occasions. the swedish authorities have asked for the full support of the chinese authorities to ensure that our swedish citizens, as well as other missing persons, have their rights protected. neither gui minhai's family nor the swedish government has been informed of any formal charges against him or where he is formally detained. my thoughts also go out to minhai's daughter angela today, who is working to secure her father's release and safe return home. not knowing what happened and not being able to contact your family is itself a crime. gui minhai's disappearance, like many others, is part of a pattern of violations of media freedom, freedom of expression and free speech. political prisoners have been mentioned by other speakers. the un committee against torture has expressed grave concern at consistent reports from various sources of continued unlawful detention in unrecognised and unofficial detention facilities. the eu has said it will hold a new round of human rights dialogue with china soon. i'd like to say this: it is not possible to be a trading partner and not have respect for human rights. i think the eu should be much clearer and stop being hypocritical. the human rights clause must be able to be activated when countries so blatantly violate these rights. we want to make it clear with this resolution, which has been supported by almost all the political groups in this parliament, that we now call for the immediate release of minhaï. we demand that freedom of speech and the media and free speech be strengthened.
member of the commission. – mr president, the european union watches with grave unease the developments in the ildar dadin case. mr dadin, who is serving a two-and-a-half-year prison term in the russian federation for peaceful acts of protests, has allegedly been tortured and mistreated in prison. he described being subjected to appalling instances of torture, including being suspended for long periods of time and being threatened with rape and murder. the european union has been vocal about its concern with this case. we have raised this issue at high-level political meetings with the russian authorities, and through a statement at the osce permanent council on 10 november. torture is a detestable violation of human rights and its universal prohibition is absolute and unconditional. the case of mr dadin has rightly received attention in russia and internationally. we welcome the initial steps the russian authorities have taken to investigate the claims, while continuing to urge the russian authorities to carry out a swift, thorough and impartial investigation of mr dadin’s torture allegation. we are disturbed by frequent reports of torture in russian prisons, and we believe that steps need to be taken to eliminate the use of torture and other ill-treatment in russian penitentiary facilities. in this regard, we are worried to learn that there have been attempts to weaken the existing oversight mechanisms, the public monitoring commissions, in charge of investigating claims of abuse in prison. the european union will continue to monitor this case. we call on the russian authorities to release mr dadin and to review the law on public assemblies that has been used to send him to prison. indeed, this law, which criminalises anyone found to have violated it more than twice within 180 days, is not in line with russia’s international obligations. mr dadin’s case is another worrying example of the ongoing restrictions on fundamental freedoms and civil society by the russian authorities. we urge russia to ensure an open and safe environment for civil society activity and peaceful dissent.
madam president, i just want to really thank all the co-authors. we have today joined forces across political groups to give a voice to the many, many women that are victims of violence in europe. thank you. (applause)
in writing. - i voted for the resolution. i believe that the dictatorial assad regime bears the main responsibility for the war in syria, and i condemn russia's bombing campaign. however, i think that the resolution lacks a self-critical european perspective. several eu countries export large quantities of arms to various countries in the middle east, thus contributing to the continuing conflict. several eu countries also actively supported the us attack on iraq, which contributed significantly to the formation of is/daesh, leading to a deepening and exacerbating of the conflict in the region. this should also have been included in the resolution. on the question of the demand for a 'no-fly zone' over aleppo, i voted against, because i believe that only the un security council should be able to take a decision on such a zone. if the eu itself takes such a decision, with the wide interpretations that can be made of the concept of a 'no-fly zone', the conflict would escalate considerably. i make these brief clarifying additions to make clear my vote in favour of the resolution.
‒ i share the concern and criticism of developments in turkey and take a clear stand on human rights and media freedom. freezing membership negotiations is the wrong way to go. we need to engage more in dialogue, not less. the negotiations are our main tool to influence turkey in the right direction and to push for a reform of the rule of law. i see no way that suspended membership negotiations would lead to a more democratic turkey. the freezing of the negotiations undermines the liberal forces which want to modernise turkey. they see the eu as an anchor that prevents turkey from drifting further away from democracy. the people of turkey, already traumatised by the coup attempt, would feel that we are turning our backs on them even more. governments come and go. we must look ahead and look at the strategic interest of an eu-turkey relationship. if the eu unilaterally freezes the negotiations now, it would strengthen the nationalists and erdoğan's attempt to centralize power, contrary to what we want. it is also the wrong time and would jeopardise the final negotiations on cyprus and the migration agreement with turkey. against this background, i was convinced to vote against the request for a freeze on the negotiations and abstained in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ turkey is an important neighbour and partner of the eu. turkey has been negotiating with the eu for many years with a view to becoming a member state in the long term. the centre party has always been positive about these negotiations. for some time now, and especially since the failed coup this summer, turkey has been developing in a direction which is completely contrary to the fundamental values of the eu. journalists have been jailed, media houses have been closed down and members of parliament have been arrested on unclear grounds. in times of unrest and in such a situation it is particularly important to stand up for liberal and liberal principles. i have therefore voted in favour of this report which calls on the commission and the council to freeze the accession negotiations with turkey until the negative trend has been reversed.
in writing. we have been following developments in turkey with great concern since the attempted military coup in july this year. the widespread detention of journalists, judges, prosecutors and elected representatives (including 10 members of the opposition hdp) and the severe restrictions on freedom of expression under the current state of emergency are completely unacceptable. we swedish social democrats believe that when democratic principles, respect for human rights and the rule of law are being violated, as they have been in turkey recently, it is important that the european parliament clearly speak out against this. we therefore voted in favour of the resolution calling for a temporary suspension of the country's accession negotiations with the eu. we would like to stress, however, that we believe that this should be a temporary measure only, and that is why it is also important to clearly define the criteria that turkey must fulfil in order to allow the accession negotiations to resume swiftly. the copenhagen criteria should be used as a guide in this assessment.
in writing. ‒ the political developments in turkey are of great concern. in several areas, turkey is moving in the wrong direction, both in terms of human rights and freedoms and in terms of the other criteria for eu membership. at the same time, it is important to give the forces that want to modernise turkish society the opportunity and the space to point to europe as a natural partner. in this context, it is not appropriate to call for a freeze in the eu-turkey negotiations today, while at the same time justifying criticism of the current developments. i hope that it can be turned in a direction which is beneficial for both turkey and europe. i remain hopeful that such a turnaround can take place and see continued negotiations as an important basis for this. in view of this, i voted today against the request for a freeze on the negotiations and chose to abstain in the vote on the resolution as a whole.
‒ today the european parliament voted on a report on the commission's ongoing work to revise eu vat legislation. the eu has had the same vat laws, with some minor updates, since the early 1990s, and the system is so complex that it is a real obstacle for small businesses operating in several european countries. the report therefore welcomes the review, as do i. that is why i voted in favour of the report. however, i would like to stress in this context that i assume that sweden's possibility of vat exemption for the non-profit sector and a lower vat rate for culture will be safeguarded in future negotiations. i would also like to stress the importance of exempting digital publications from the common minimum level of vat in the future. the media industry is developing and it is important that vat rules do not stand in the way.
in writing. ‒ we voted today in favour of the report on a new vat system in the eu. we are not convinced that the reverse charge method should be used as a pilot project in individual member states. it is important to have a simple system that makes it easier for businesses. that is why the systems of the countries should not be too different. it is important that the reverse charge method is analysed and evaluated carefully before deciding to use it. we are also in favour of using the destination principle to collect vat. however, the assessment of whether the country of destination or the country of origin is to collect vat needs to be made before any decision is taken.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution. belarus violates human rights in many areas, as is demonstrated by the amnesty international yearbook, which contains clear examples. in order to support the development towards democracy, it is important that democratic trade union and popular movements are given the opportunity to operate freely and receive support for their activities. the eu, but also movements in eu countries, can play an important role in contributing to such developments. i have voted in favour of the sharp criticism of belarus' participation in russia's military exercises which also included simulated attacks on sweden. i would like to stress, however, that in order to create détente and common security in europe, nato's military exercises and sweden's participation in them must also be criticised.
rapporteur. – mr president, this trade deal with ghana is very important. it is especially important for ghana. in 2015, ghanaian exports to the european union accounted for eur 2.4 billion. 46% of ghana’s exports was to the european union. the consequences of voting ‘no’ to this agreement, of not ratifying this agreement, would be dramatic for ghana. they would face a wall of eu tariffs. even though the average tariff for ghana would be around 8.13% – it might not sound much but it is a prohibitive tariff level; for many products in areas where ghana has a lot of exports, the tariffs are even higher. for bananas, for example, they would have most favoured nation duties of 19.7%, and for prepared tuna 20.7%. the consequences of saying ‘no’ to this would be dramatic for ghana. and why would they face this wall of tariffs? the answer is simple: because the current trade regime the eu has with ghana – the market access regulation – is running out in 2016. that is the reason why we have to take this decision now. and then one might ask: why does the current regime run out in 2016? the answer to that is actually pretty simple: it is because we in this house decided so. with a broad majority. i remember negotiating with my good friend and colleague david martin, on specifically that date, to say that this existing trade regime should run out in 2016. but the thing with this trade agreement is that it is actually a pretty good agreement. it is a good agreement that we present instead of the current regime. ghana will get duty-free access to the european union from day one. 75% of ghanaian tariff lines will be liberalised, yes, but they will be liberalised over 15 years. people talk about the fact that we need to have asymmetrical agreements, taking into account that they do not have the same level of development in many areas and competitiveness. i would say if this is not asymmetrical, taking that into account, i cannot imagine what would be. they get free access: from day one, 75% of their lines will be liberalised, but over 15 years. it is worth repeating. and the tariffs removed in ghana are mainly things like industrial machines, pumps, generators, turbines, certain vehicles, boats, aircraft, cars, certain chemicals – all of those are used as input to ghanaian industries and not produced locally. eliminating import duties on these products will reduce the cost of imports for local businesses and increase their competitiveness. what we didn’t liberalise is mainly agriculture, the sensitive stuff, things like chicken and other meat, tomatoes, onions, sugar, tobacco, beer, clothes, wheat, frozen fish, some industrial things like industrial plastics. we did take their needs into account. and there are safeguards in this agreement to protect the ghanaian side. but not only that. the reason i speak about ghana now and what this means to ghana is no serious actors have questioned that this will have any serious implications on the european union and our trade policy. those who are criticising say it is bad for ghana, but we should let ghana decide what is good or bad for ghana, and ghana is a democracy. the government and parliament have with broad majority supported this, and why should we then reject it? let me therefore finish by quoting the minister of foreign affairs from ghana, hanna tetteh, in her letter to the committee on international trade, where she says: ‘we believe, when it comes to determine the matter of what is in our best national interest, we, as elected representatives of the people of ghana, the parliament of the republic of ghana, have both the legitimacy and the mandate to make that determination, and not to any other third party, irrespective of however well intended such third party decisions might be’. don’t act as new imperialists here. listen and respect the people of ghana, and let them decide if it is good for them.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for the work they have been doing. this is actually the third time this year that i have had the opportunity to discuss with you in plenary the agenda of our economic partnership agreements (epas) with africa. i came in february, we had a debate on an oral question on the sustainable development provisions of the eu—west africa epa and we had a good debate in december on the sadc epa, following which you gave your assent, so that has now entered into force and i thank you for that. we are now working with our friends in sadc countries with great enthusiasm to put that into practice and to make it to function as intended. throughout africa we are moving to the implementation phase as more and more african parliaments are giving their ratification to the epas. the trade for all communication recognised that fulfilling the promise of these agreements will be a major deliverable for the next few years. it is now for us and our partners to fully use trade as a tool for growth, sustainable development and employment. in west africa a large majority of countries have signed the regional epa which, as you know, ultimately intends to foster and strengthen the regional integration process in that part of africa. we are committed to the conclusion of that epa together with the regional organisation. but, while that process is ongoing, ghana and côte d’ivoire decided to keep up their economic development by preserving their access to the eu market. they did so by reviving the best option available at the moment, an interim bilateral epa. the interim epa with ghana remains compatible with our objective of achieving a regional epa which will, of course, ultimately replace this one. we are continuing to work hard to get a west africa epa in place for the near future but today let us focus on the one we have on the table with ghana. it is a self—standing, wto—compatible trade agreement of unlimited duration. it immediately guarantees ghana’s exporters duty—free, quota—free access to the eu market. the agreement protects local development through safeguard clauses and a limited and gradual liberalisation focusing on equipment and inputs. many provisions deal with support for ghanaian producers to meet eu standards, which is, of course, good for farmers and for the transformation of agricultural products. the epa also contains cooperation provisions to accompany ghana during the implementation of the agreement. i would also like to highlight that the epa is anchored in the provisions of the cotonou agreement. this includes the essential elements and sustainable development objectives, its provisions on labour, environment, democratic principles and human rights. this is very important to remember. when i came here in february – i think it was in strasbourg actually – i committed to having sustainable development as a strong element of the implementation of all our epas. it is true that this bilateral epa with ghana has been negotiated with 2018 in view and it does not contain a sustainable development chapter on top of what we have in the cotonou agreement. but it is linked to the cotonou agreement and this does not mean that we are not active in this area. we are committed to engaging in a dialogue on sustainable development in the epa joint committee that will be created by this agreement. the same goes for involving civil society. there are provisions in the epa that give us a hook for putting this into place. for example it is foreseen that civil society organisations can participate as observers in the epa joint committee, and i can guarantee you that ghana is very committed to doing this. ghana is one of the thriving democracies in the region. they have a well—developed civil society in place. that is not always the case in the region, but in ghana it is. the foreign affairs minister, hanna tetteh, made it clear when she came to the committee on international trade and she said to you – and i spoke to her as well – that they have already started to engage civil society and they are committed to sustainable development at the highest level. this is about companies and about people. a substantial part of ghana’s trade is done with the eu. ghana’s exports to the eu amounted to eur 2.6 billion last year. on cocoa and bananas they are heavily dependent on us, and non-traditional exports, such as processed tuna, depend on the eu market even more. those exports contribute to building local value chains which involve smes and create jobs, directly and indirectly. so this provides a solid environment for local and foreign investors, which should not be underestimated because when european investors settle in ghana, they increase the share of formal employment, which ensures more protection for ghanaian workers as well. finally, i believe that the successful implementation of the epas with ghana, côte d’ivoire and other african countries will be the best proof that our trade responds to the many challenges faced with our partners. it is also the best way to convince remaining partners to opt for the regional epa, demonstrating on the ground the benefits of deepening trade relationships with us. i hope there will be strong support for this when you vote on it tomorrow in the plenary.
rapporteur, blue -card question. – ms kirton- darling, if you are to quote me and my report would you be so kind as to quote me correctly the next time, and not only say that i think this agreement is insufficient, but that it is insufficient compared to the final general regional economic partnership agreement. because if you cut me like that, you actually lie.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for this debate. i believe that this interim agreement has the potential to provide growth, stability and development for ghana. let us be honest, this is not something that will be of major importance to make the european economy grow. we are not doing this for the european economy. it will have marginal effects on the european economy. we are doing this to support the development, the diversification of the industry and the stability of a country like ghana, a rare democracy in a region where that is not always the case. ghana’s commitment to the regional epa is very strong. they want to integrate and to develop in a transparent manner. as the foreign minister, who we have been quoting here today, said in the letter to you, she is very committed to making this happen, and she has already started to work with the civil society organisations and will continue to jointly work with them. there are indeed alternative options to the epa that have been voiced, but they are not realistic. they do not provide the same advantages to ghana as the epa does. some of them are not even wto-compatible. but this agreement is something that ghana wants. they have chosen it and they have decided on it in a parliamentary vote by their democratically elected parliament. i am sure you have also read the letter where the foreign minister, ms tetteh, explains this very clearly. it is true that we are working on a regional agreement but, as you know, there are some countries blocking this. why should ghana be blocked while we are waiting for this to happen? it will happen someday. we are working very hard on it, but we should not punish a country which wants to cooperate with us, which wants to be a close ally and which has chosen this path. the regional epa is a way to overcome the challenges regionally. we are working on this. it is of course up to west africa to decide about the future, but for the moment that agreement is not available. so let us work together for a successful interim bilateral epa with an important country which wants to engage with us and, at the same time, continue our advocacy, together with the west african regional organisation, for a regional epa. thank you very much for your commitment here and, by the way, mr obermayr, chickens are not liberalised in this agreement. thank you very much for your engagement in this.
rapporteur. – madam president, i entered the plenary of the european parliament, but listening to some colleagues from the s&d on my left, it sounds as if they wish to be members of the ghanaian parliament instead, as they want to vote against it because they think it’s bad for ghana. didn’t you hear the democratically elected foreign minister of ghana saying they think it is good and they want it? don’t you think that they’re legitimate when taking that decision, or don’t you think they really understand it? because it has to be one of those two. and if you win, if you manage to kill this trade agreement, forcing them to meet the tariff wall of the european union, how can you explain to the poor farmers of ghana that you thought you were in a better position than their elected representatives to actually choose the destiny of their future? will you be able to look at yourselves in the mirror after doing that?
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, i am here on behalf of our shadow, cornelia ernst, who could not be here tonight but who has, as you know, been working on this with colleagues for several years. like the former speaker, i want to highlight that, although there are improvements and good things in this agreement, we are not satisfied. in our view, the agreement does not meet the requirement of the charter under eu law and fails to provide the required levels of protection. the wording is not strong enough when it comes to purpose limitation and onward transfer and, as the former speaker said, not all individuals are allowed to have effective judicial redress. it differentiates between eu citizens and non-citizens. legal actors have criticised the agreement. it is an international agreement, which would mean it is very difficult – near impossible – to challenge its legality in court. it will, as such, override the eu’s data protection legislation, endangering what we have fought very hard to have, our good data protection rights. for all of these reasons, we think that the agreement has to go to the european court of justice so we can have clear legal guidance on the manner in which these international agreements in the field of law enforcement and data protection interlink and whether they comply sufficiently with eu law. i must also add that i do not think that we should use mr trump as an excuse for bad european union law-making. we have full responsibly here ourselves and we should refer this to the european court of justice. otherwise our group will have to vote against this agreement.
for the efdd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. there are many swear words thrown around this chamber all too often. 'racist', 'xenophobe' and now 'populist' are terms that could have had a clear and distinct meaning in a different social climate. but considering that you have called ordinary people who simply have different views on immigration for this, the terms have lost their meaning. when did wanting controlled immigration become racist? when did it become racist to care about the safety of women and children? when did loving your country and your culture become racist? our citizens have seen enough to be very concerned about the situation. this cannot be dismissed as populism or dissent. you in the eu pretend to fight intolerance while inviting millions of migrants from intolerant cultures. how can you expect our citizens to be tolerant of intolerance? i'd like a round of applause, too. (the speaker accepted to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
(blue card) thank you for asking! i can only see in my country, sweden, how we sometimes distance ourselves from our own culture in order to accommodate the immigrants who come. for example, we stop celebrating school graduations in church so that we can bump into certain groups, and so on. i see more and more how we are leaving our own culture to adapt to others.
mr president, racism and discrimination should never be accepted or normalised because they are violations of democracy and the rule of law. some people in this chamber do not understand that. my message is for those who feel threatened and scared due to the normalisation of hatred. in parliament, i will continue to fight and call out, and i will not stop until muslims, jews and other religious minorities can practice their religion freely, roma people have full access to their human rights, black europeans are protected from afrophobia, lgbti people can love whom they want, trans people are able to express who they are, people with disability are treated equally, refugees are no longer demonised, and violence against women is recognised as a security issue. these are the values that underpin the eu. these are my values, which i will fight for in the face of racists and populists, in the ardi intergroup, inside the parliament and in cooperation with the commission.
‒ i have abstained on these three reports. on the one hand, i support the redirection of resources to support refugees arriving in the eu. on the other hand, a large part of these resources is being spent on frontex and the continued building of fortress europe, as well as the shameful refugee agreement with turkey, which i strongly oppose. as the budget is made, the different parts are not separated from each other. that is why i have decided to abstain from voting on this report.
in writing. - i voted against the budget report. the budget is too large and too comprehensive. for example, in agricultural policy, which is too costly and has a negative impact on the environment, the climate and animal husbandry. the unmanageable regional and structural funds, which are also subject to widespread fraud, should also be cut back. i am opposed to the frontex initiative, which means the continuation of the construction of fortress europe, which forces people to flee war and oppression and to risk their lives to reach a place of safety. this, and initiatives to increase the militarisation of the eu, is the wrong way forward for a union which claims to defend human rights and is a peace project. action is needed within the eu institutions, including reducing excessive salaries, allowances and other types of privileges. these are some of the reasons why i am voting against the budget.
‒ today the european parliament voted on the final agreement between the council and parliament on the eu budget for 2017. the eu needs a budget to function, and to show respect for the agreement that the member states have signed, i chose to vote in favour. i and the christian democrats underlined the party's position on the budget question during the first reading of the budget in october. the christian democrats are clear that we must reform the eu and focus on the core tasks. this implies the ambition to reduce gradually the expenditure on agricultural aid, industrial subsidies and regional policy.
‒ i have abstained on these three reports. on the one hand, i support the redirection of resources to support refugees arriving in the eu. on the other hand, a large part of these resources is being spent on frontex and the continued building of fortress europe, as well as the shameful refugee agreement with turkey, which i strongly oppose. as the budget is made, the different parts are not separated from each other. that is why i have decided to abstain from voting on this report.
for the verts/ale group. mr president commissioner, what is it? first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs thomas, on her successful completion of this important piece of legislation which was started during the last term of office. as fishing vessels have become more numerous, larger, and more efficient, the supply of wild-caught fish has declined. we're catching smaller and smaller fish, fishing farther and farther out to sea and deeper and deeper down. if we are to eat fish in the future, the management of our oceans and our common fisheries resources must be radically changed and improved. it is about stopping the poaching and overfishing that lead to the depletion of our seas. the environment in the deep parts of our oceans is ecologically vulnerable. because the environment is so deep, cold and without light, everything happens there very, very slowly. species that live deep in the sea grow slowly and reach their reproductive age decades later. therefore, they are very vulnerable to overfishing, as it can also take decades, even centuries, for that fish stock to reach its original size after being affected by overfishing. therefore, deep sea fishing may be more akin to mining than fishing for a renewable resource. there is a wealth of coral and other vulnerable species that must be protected. most deep-sea fishing is carried out with highly destructive gear such as bottom trawling. i am therefore very pleased to note that this law does not allow bottom tracking below a half mile. it is an important step towards protecting the vital marine environment. thank you, thank you!
madam president, i have to say something. commissioner, what is it? i will speak in english. we europeans often take pride in being one of the most developed communities in the world, a community which is actively fighting for the protection of fundamental rights and for safeguarding non-discrimination for everyone. where children have the same life chances, regardless of the family they are born into, and their parents have equal opportunities in the public spheres of life. however, what we see through the latest eu minorities and discrimination survey (eu-midis) of the fundamental rights agency is that 80% of roma parents and their children surveyed live in poverty compared to 17% of the general population. that every third roma child goes to sleep hungry at least once a month. that every third roma lives in a house without tap water. every second roma family lives without a toilet, a shower or a bathroom. that 63% of young roma are not in work, education or training, compared to the european average of 12%. it is high time we became suspicious about how well designed our policies really are, how much we have achieved in the field of non-discrimination, and then we can really talk about fundamental rights for everyone in europe. we have to tackle the anti-gypsies.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the cultural and creative industries in europe account for 7.5% of the workforce, and these 12 million people in these sectors not only contribute to europe's economic development, but also contribute to strengthening the european identity in the face of increasingly difficult challenges. i strongly believe that in these times of division we must look for something we have in common, namely go back to basics: starting from what may constitute an opportunity for integration, namely culture. that is why i also believe that we must build a common european public service. we have local publicity, we have national publicity, but we lack a european publicity. a space open to all citizens of the union where we can share our experiences. my future depends very much on you, my fellow officers, but i know very little about your real lives. i want to know what films you watch, i want to watch your entertainment programmes, i want to know what debates are taking place in your countries, and thus to be able to get a sense that your problems concern me. in this way, culture can be part of the future. thank you, thank you!
madam president, the eu eastern partnership has been created in order to deepen political and economic integration within ukraine, belarus, moldova, armenia, azerbaijan and georgia. it is, at its very core, a shared commitment to democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. therefore, improving women’s rights in the eastern partnership countries should be the utmost priority for the eu and, indeed, progress has been made. gender equality is now enshrined in the constitutions and legal systems of these countries. however, as underlined by the council of europe, legal obstacles to women’s access to the labour market persist. barriers restrict women’s access to certain professions and gaps exist in anti-discrimination legislation. i therefore call on the commission to undertake immediate action in order to help and significantly improve women’s participation in the labour market throughout the eastern partnership.
madam president, commissioner, there are no more words to describe the suffering of children in syria. aleppo is hell on earth. all of syria is a humanitarian catastrophe. we are talking about thousands of kids that are being slaughtered and denied help. via skype a few days ago in the european parliament, some boys and girls shared with us: ‘we are left alone; all our friends died’. their voices cannot go unheard. for many of them, life has been nothing but war and siege. what if they were our children? when a permanent member of the united nations security council, russia, blocks even a humanitarian ceasefire, what is left of humanity? we call on the upcoming european council to act firmly for an immediate ceasefire, unconditional access to humanitarian aid, and to protect children. at least unicef should have access to conduct vaccinations in all of syria. an entire generation is at risk of dying from curable diseases. are we going to allow sarajevo to pale in front of aleppo? so together, tonight, we should join forces for the children of syria to end violence. tonight we say to the children: ‘you are not forgotten’.
madam president, in december 2015 the commission concluded that georgia and ukraine have met all criteria for visa liberalisation. this was a victory especially for the citizens, who will be able to travel to the eu without a visa. it also sends a signal to the rest of the world that a path of credible reforms is the one to be rewarded. but since then the european parliament and the council have been delaying this decision for months. it is only last week that they managed to strike a deal on a visa suspension mechanism. one entire year has now passed since the publication of the reports from the commission. i believe that the eu cannot afford to wait any longer. ukraine and georgia are two countries whose territorial integrity is threatened by russia; they are desperately knocking on the eu’s door, and the answer from the eu cannot be: ‘sorry, you will have to wait longer’.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. i would also like to thank the commissioners for being here and for favouring the proposals before us. this is perhaps the biggest energy bill we have had in european history and it is important from many, many angles. firstly, to ensure that we can cope with the geopolitical challenges and security threats that energy policy actually poses when we are not able to ensure that our industry and our consumers can be supplied with our own energy, but we are dependent on a third power to ensure that we can cope with the heat of winter, industrial production and low energy prices for our citizens. at the same time, this energy package also places a major climate challenge. and it is important to remember that the summer package is also part of the whole, and so is the ets, which we are currently in the process of trying to finalise. it also suggests that we need to have a discussion about what is and is not a subsidy. it always strikes me in the debate, as one of those who advocate renewable energy, that whenever there is an investment in renewable energy, then we have a debate about massive subsidies. but all those billions of euros that are poured into coal, into gas projects, they're seen all the time as investments and as something that's important to industry. i believe that both will play their part in the european energy market in the foreseeable future. but it is about making sure that we meet the climate targets we have set, low energy prices so that we can meet energy-intensive industrial production in europe, that we can meet low prices for consumers and that we do so in an environmentally friendly way. we can see in several parts of europe that this is possible, and together with a well-functioning market we will also solve this. thank you, thank you!
madam president, i would like to thank you. a european energy market must be based on healthy, free and open competition. it must build on the good conditions for renewable energy, it must ensure that, through the price mechanism, different forms of energy and new types of energy can compete fully and grow and play the role they must be able to play in the future. a european energy market must also be based on close links between countries, with the development of transmission links between countries, across the baltic sea, in europe, on the continent, in order to create a market. and here the commission must take the lead in proposing measures to open up what is a market. but at the same time i would also say that this is not possible if nord stream 2 is allowed at the same time. nord stream 2 is a project whose political objective is to undermine european independence and security of supply. it has no commercial functioning objectives, but the political aim of dividing europe. the commission has a responsibility to maintain european security and security of supply, and you have a responsibility to ensure that no one gains dominance in the european energy market, which is contrary to competition and the opportunity to make this market strong. thank you, thank you!
for the verts/ale group. mr president! (the minutes were not received) ... on the rules of procedure of parliament. this is the culmination of a two-year process of hard work in which we have gone through the rules of procedure paragraph by paragraph. the rules of procedure of parliament are a very important document because they regulate the balance of power in this house between large groups, between small groups, between group leaders, between individual members. it is a complex document and anyone who reads the rules of procedure carefully will have an important tool for implementing their policy. it is therefore good that we simplify the rules of procedure, and make them somewhat easier to understand. there are also things that are good improvements. parliament's governing body will no longer be able to stop proposals that we should have a vote on setting up a committee of inquiry to investigate abuses. the president of parliament will no longer be able to prevent the advisory group investigating whether a member has committed an offence against the code of conduct from investigating this. the president of parliament has that right of veto today and it is good that it should be removed, except in cases which are quite obvious. there are some other things that are actually good for the small groups. on the whole, although the report is not what we greens would like it to be, it is a good report. but there are some things that i want to talk about that we're working to improve. one concerns motion 222 on the composition of committees, which calls for a change in the principle of who should sit on which committee. today, the member is the owner of his committee seat. the proposal put forward by the group would make the party groups the owners of the committee seat, and thus would have the possibility of punishing a member who votes against the will of the group leader by depriving the member of his committee seat. if we want a parliament with strong members who can represent their constituents, it would be very good if we retained the principle that the member has his own seat. i notice that my speaking time is already over, i just want to say this: applaud the green demands for better control of lobbying too. thank you, thank you!
blue-card question. – mr president, i notice that mr ferreira has quite an impressive mep ranking score with 322 questions to the commission and an impressive 882 plenary speeches, but i would like to ask him: how many of those speeches are real speeches? are you aware of that?
mr president, i wish to raise a point about rule 170 of the rules of procedure. we have an amendment supported by more than 100 meps from five different groups, amendment 320, which proposes that former meps who have a transitional allowance should not be engaged in lobbying. it was declared inadmissible on the fifth version of the voting list last night. we have not received a formal explanation why this pretty good amendment was declared inadmissible, and this we find strange and unacceptable. if possible, we would like the vote on amendment 320 to go forward.
‒ i voted for rules that make our work even more transparent, while also ensuring that everyone, even small and less organised organisations, will have the opportunity to contact us. i have also voted to abolish the procedure for written declarations, since its political significance is extremely small. i hope that the new rules will contribute to a more efficient and transparent work in parliament.
‒ today the european parliament voted on a report on the situation of fundamental rights in the member states of the union. it is largely a good report which stresses the importance of protecting the principles of freedom of expression and the rule of law. as regards the abortion literature, i believe that the responsibility for health policy lies at the national level. in separate votes i have highlighted this view. on the basis of a comprehensive assessment, i have decided to vote in favour of the final vote.
in writing. ‒ respect for fundamental rights and freedoms is at the core of eu values and integration. we need to do more to fight discrimination and violence based on gender, ethnic origin, sexual orientation or religion across europe. we need to protect in particular the most vulnerable, such as children. i fully supported the report as it takes into account the rights of women victims of violence, the situation of refugees, in particular refugee women and unaccompanied minors, lgtbi people, minorities and people with disabilities. i also support more cooperation with industry to prevent and fight abuse, hate speech and radicalisation online, in respect of freedom of expression. these new challenges require the member states to work together with mutual trust for a more efficient cross-border cooperation. we have the responsibility to stay vigilant and fight against any form of racism and xenophobia, to combat the rise of nationalism and populism and protect peace in europe.
‒ today the european parliament voted on a report on eu policy for the cultural and creative sectors. there is a need for common rules on, for example, intellectual property rights, as the report also stressed. at the same time, 'a single european policy' must not mean a uniform cultural policy. cultural policy matters are national competence and should not be decided at eu level. that is why i voted against, in separate votes, for example joint eu cultural campaigns and an eu prize for the cultural sector, and i voted against the increase in the eu budget for cultural policy. overall, this is a report that deals with urgent issues, but it also has shortcomings and i therefore chose to abstain in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ the cultural and creative industries are an important part of europe's society and economy. the initiative highlights in several places good initiatives and needs that the industry would deserve. however, we find it problematic that stricter copyright legislation is seen as one of the most important tools for securing the future of the industry. for these reasons, the swedish green delegation has decided to abstain on the report on a single eu policy for the cultural and creative sectors.
in writing. ‒ the cultural and creative industries are an important part of europe's society and economy. the initiative highlights in several places good initiatives and needs that the industry would deserve. however, we find it problematic that stricter copyright legislation is seen as one of the most important tools for securing the future of the industry. for these reasons, the swedish green delegation has decided to abstain on the report on a single eu policy for the cultural and creative sectors.
‒ today the european parliament voted on a report on gender equality in the eastern partnership countries. the report is largely positive and underlines the importance of these countries continuing to work on the issue of equality between women and men. however, in separate votes i emphasized the view of the christian democrats and myself that the national legislation of these countries in the field of health care policy does not constitute an obstacle to approximation to the eu, as the text of the report in some respects stated.
‒ the report as a whole is an important step towards ensuring a level playing field. a strong contradiction is the issue of the quota of female candidates and representatives. i think that is not the right way to go because it undermines the longterm work of the public institutions. such shortcuts do not guarantee a long-term equal society but are merely a knuckle-dragging supranational mechanism, a kind of poster politics that risks being counterproductive.
mr president, i would like to thank you. today is the feast of st. lucia. in my home country of sweden, she brings light during the darkest part of the darkest season. 1700 years ago, st. lucia suffered martyrdom in sicily. yesterday, 25 more martyrs were buried in cairo. they were victims of a persecution of christians reminiscent of the fourth century and the martyr lucy. mr president, i would like to thank you. religious persecution is one of the most common human rights violations today. i mention this because i have proposed, together with other members, that the report we are discussing should shed more light on religious freedom. many of the amendments we have tabled are now in this report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr weidenholzer, for a very good job. at the same time, i would urge this house to always fully regard religious freedom as a central part of the concept of human rights. or, as the un special envoy for human rights says: human rights without the perspective of religious freedom are worthless. let us agree on this, let us act on this, let us honour the martyrs of cairo by standing up for religious freedom always. thank you, thank you!
madam president, i would like to thank you. we live in a new age and we have new security challenges - wars in our neighborhood, terrorist attacks striking in our midst. and as long as terror struck in some far-off land, our newspapers had little coverage. now it strikes in our midst, and fear grips us, and so does the will to act. but most of these terrorists are born and raised among us, and what did we do wrong? friends are no longer friends, and enemies can suddenly become friends. the fight against the great common enemy, namely climate change, could in principle be lost with a new president of the united states. it doesn't look bright. weapons that we ourselves have sold to previously peaceful and friendly states are falling into the wrong hands. they're used against our friends and maybe against ourselves, but we keep selling. the eu member states are taking action. we're increasing our defense budget, we're working on counter-radicalization, and hopefully we're also doing better risk assessments before new weapons are licensed for sale. i agree with the rapporteur that we need better cooperation and coordination between member states. i think we're all agreed on that. what we have different views on is how best to solve the problems. many in this parliament want us to move towards an increasingly unified military - to become a superpower. that we are, in contravention of the rules, to use eu funds for a variety of military purposes, and in addition to defence research. the report talks about the eu's military capability, even though we do not have such a model today because it is the member states' military capability. and not everyone wants to go in that direction either. the commission is also proposing to increase the number of member states that have not yet ratified the convention. countries are asked to spend two percent of gdp on defense, etc. there is much that is good in the report, but there are also a lot of questions, or writings, that i, as a green and a swede, cannot support. thank you, thank you!
madam president, increased price volatility since 2007 has changed the rules of the game. farmers are often confronted with a volatility which becomes problematic, where price movements are large and unpredictable. in addition, the current fragmentation of the agricultural sector brings some actors to the chain that abuse their market power and create unfair trading practices. unfortunately, during these periods of falling prices, farmers represent the main shock absorber for the entire industry and see their margins shrink rapidly. in this context, i firmly believe in a fairer functioning of the food supply chain. we must pay attention to the process by which food is produced, processed, transported and sold to the consumers. it is crucial to reinforce the weak bargaining position of farmers and change the role of the producer organisation and cooperatives. let me conclude by expressing that we must invest even further in the potential of the instrument to deal with price volatility. farmers do deserve to get a fair price for their products.
madam president, i would like to thank you. yesterday, 50 afghan citizens were forcibly deported from sweden to afghanistan, despite the fact that the afghan parliament has rejected the return agreement that sweden was trying to sign with afghanistan. today, there are forced deportations from germany, and some of them may never have set foot in afghanistan before. many have been on the run their entire lives. we are faced with an absurd situation when, in order to accommodate the asylum seekers from the terrible war in syria, we are forced to send out those who come from less terrible armed conflicts. there is no peace in afghanistan, and in particular certain groups are very vulnerable, and the same is true in other countries such as mali. our deportation policy will lead to more and more people choosing to hide in europe, and to become undocumented. i understand them, and i would have done the same. but it should not have happened that sweden and germany are now forcibly deporting people who, according to previous interpretations of the law, were presumably granted a residence permit. this would not have to be the case if all member states had taken responsibility for the asylum seekers who come to us. i want you in the commission and the council to make this a priority at the meeting and beyond. i also welcome the increased efforts being made to reach young people. i think it is a worthwhile investment for a safer europe in the future. a better investment than many of the investments made in, for example, surveillance and other such security enhancement measures. thank you, thank you!
madam president, i would like to thank you. thank you for your time. it is astonishing to hear you say that the eu delivers. that the eu has control over migration flows. i wonder what kind of naive world you live in? the truth is the complete opposite. you are in the blackmail trap with the turkey agreement where the eu chooses to be blackmailed by a country where democracy, human rights, freedom of the press and freedom of expression are completely ignored. the eu is in a situation where president erdoğan says "jump" and you have no choice but to jump. the truth is, mr juncker, that what you call 'team juncker' is synonymous with failure. but of course, you don't have to worry about that in your privileged life. with the salary and benefits you're collecting, you can sit back in your armchair, enjoy your cognac and let the taxpayers take the hit.
madam president, i would like to thank you. thank you so much! my colleagues! the commission! the council! there's an unbearable gap between words and deeds. what the eu says it stands for and what it actually does. peace means rearmament and militarization and a rapprochement with nato. it's a dangerous road to travel. this is the wrong way to go. the eu's development aid will no longer be used to fight poverty, but will finance migration control, as it is called, in third countries. they even cooperate with oppressive regimes. anything to stop people from escaping. it's time to stop sitting on erdoğan's lap. it is time to terminate the agreement, and the only way to do that is to organise a dignified reception for more people seeking protection in europe. my colleagues! words and deeds must go together. we must show real respect for human rights and the rule of law, and we must show real solidarity with people on the move. redistribution of refugees from greece, more legal routes to europe and a dignified reception here.
in writing. ‒ ecuador has long worked with bolivia to develop a new type of trade agreement that favours sustainable development, redistribution and indigenous rights. this agreement represents a return to an unfair and unsustainable trade system in which ecuador is stuck in a dependence on raw material exports. the people's movement in ecuador is critical. that's why we can't vote yes to the deal. at the same time, we want to respect an elected government in the south and we do not choose to vote no. we'll vote in the blank this time.
in writing. ‒ ecuador has long worked with bolivia to develop a new type of trade agreement that favours sustainable development, redistribution and indigenous rights. this agreement represents a return to an unfair and unsustainable trade system in which ecuador is stuck in a dependence on raw material exports. the people's movement in ecuador is critical. that's why we can't vote yes to the deal. at the same time, we want to respect an elected government in the south and we do not choose to vote no. we'll vote in the blank this time.
in writing. ‒ ecuador has long worked with bolivia to develop a new type of trade agreement that favours sustainable development, redistribution and indigenous rights. this agreement represents a return to an unfair and unsustainable trade system in which ecuador is stuck in a dependence on raw material exports. the people's movement in ecuador is critical. that's why we can't vote yes to the deal. at the same time, we want to respect an elected government in the south and we do not choose to vote no. we'll vote in the blank this time.
‒ in agreement with previous votes on the globalisation adjustment fund, i voted against because the instrument, as pointed out by several bodies at european level, is insufficient and ineffective to make any real difference to the workers affected.
in writing. - i voted yes. i have done so because the rules now adopted establish the right of dockers to better education and safety, as well as their rights in the event of the transfer of undertakings. ports shall be able to limit the number of service providers in order to safeguard safety and environmental sustainability. freight and passenger services are also covered by the new financial transparency rules. the organisation of port services themselves remains the responsibility of the member states. i would like to emphasize that i have always opposed the policy of privatization and market liberalisation of ports which the commission has previously tried to implement but which has been blocked by the trade union movement and the majority in the european parliament. it is important to stick to the position of principle.
‒ the report sets out the european parliament's position on the use of the next research phase of the coal and gas fund. it is important that we continue to conduct essential research on how to maximise resources and achieve good research quality. energy sources of a somewhat controversial nature also need to be revised and examined. this is particularly the case with regard to the energy union and the forthcoming energy package to be discussed by both the european parliament and the european council.
‒ report on the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy on the matter 2015 (weide n i've put down my the report is comprehensive and covers most of the human rights issues in the world. it has many positive points, such as the need for safe and legal escape routes to the eu, the rights of lgbtq people, and the marking against racism and xenophobia. the report also contains a number of negative points, mainly on safety. the report calls for further military integration in europe to improve the readiness and effectiveness of the european armed forces. the report also welcomes military operations such as 'eunavfor med sophia', which has been a highly criticised operation by a member state. there are also problematic writings on migration, where deportations are seen as an important part of the common european interest. this is not something i can support, and it's not something that should be in a report on human these and other points made me decide to put i'll lower my voice.
‒ the report is an important step towards the european parliament's coherent, united voice against human rights abuses. it is regrettable that some of the report's texts tend to be misleading, especially with regard to religious persecuted groups - in which i disagree with the 'factual' statements which only risk polarizing the debate more superficially.
‒ i have voted against the report. the report calls for, among other things, a strong military build-up, a joint permanent military headquarters, dedicated eu combat teams, more efficient decisions on military operations and eu-funded military research. i am opposed to all this and believe that such a policy will only lead to increased tension in the world and increased risk of war. if the eu is to work for peace, it will need to disarm, de-escalate and focus on peaceful, political and diplomatic solutions to conflicts.
‒ strengthening security and defence cooperation is essential in the current context. it is therefore important that we in europe can go further and make progress in this area also by deepening cooperation with other actors, such as nato. i think the report goes a little too far in its request for budgetary resources, since this must be done primarily as part of the budgetary work. i also think that the report goes too far in some respects in its ambitions to create a european army. these positions have been reflected in my vote on this report.
in writing. we swedish social democrats believe it is important that the eu strengthens its capacity to contribute, with the resources of the member states, to preserving peace, preventing conflicts and strengthening international security. we are in favour of cooperation within the framework of the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) and want to emphasise its importance for the eu as a dynamic actor in foreign policy. given the more volatile security situation in our world, cooperation within the cfsp is becoming increasingly important. we would like to stress, however, that we do not support the report's call for increased defence spending by the member states or its calls for a permanent common defence, but we believe that defence policy should be a national competence. we specifically oppose the parts on taking steps towards a 'european defence union' and therefore appreciate that the report makes clear that any decision to move towards a defence union must be based on unanimity among member states. we also stress that we are satisfied that the oecd criteria for official development assistance (oda) are respected in decisions on the financing of military operations. it is also important that csdp actions under the cfsp continue to be used exclusively for peace-keeping and conflict prevention outside the union.
in writing. ‒ this is a report that really points out that farmers are a vulnerable group, especially when prices on the world market fluctuate as they do. however, it is a report that goes too far in terms of the importance of new eu regulations in the area of contract law, among other things, and it advocates financial and budgetary systems that do not go in the direction that i believe is necessary to turn the tide for europe's farmers. i see a risk that some of the proposals put forward in the report may cement the situation rather than facilitate it. that is why i chose to abstain on the final vote.
first vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the european parliament for putting the situation in poland on the agenda of its plenary meeting today. last time we discussed this issue in plenary was on 13 september. the resolution which the plenary adopted later that day provided a strong support for the commission, and i would like to thank parliament for this support. today, i would like to explain what has happened since and how we see the situation since the adoption of our recommendation. as you know, the commission raised three main issues of concern in its rule of law recommendation of 27 july. the composition of the constitutional tribunal, the publication of its judgments, and the effectiveness of the functioning of the tribunal. the commission asked the polish authorities to address these concerns within three months. regrettably, since the adoption of the recommendation, the situation has not improved. on 14 october, the venice commission issued an opinion on the rule of law in poland which fully supports the concerns expressed by the commission. regrettably, the polish government has not accepted, but strongly criticised this opinion. let me remind you, the polish government asked for the venice commission to give its opinion. on 27 october, the commission received a reply from the polish government. however, this reply did not announce any new actions on the part of the polish authorities to address the concerns identified by the commission. it rather explained why the polish government disagreed with the positions of the commission expressed in the recommendation. in particular, the polish government denied that the judgments of the polish constitutional tribunal of the 3 and 9 december 2015 had any legal relevance for the composition of the tribunal. furthermore, three new laws regarding the constitutional tribunal are at the final stage of the legislative process; they were voted on last night in the sejm. while these laws would address some of the issues raised in the recommendation of 27 july, they also introduce new provisions, raising concern in particular regarding the president of the constitutional tribunal. the president of the republic would be given the right to appoint an ‘acting president’ of the tribunal, which is in clear disregard of the provisions of the polish constitution concerning the election of the president and the vice-president of the tribunal. in addition, the functioning of the tribunal is significantly impeded as three judges of the constitutional tribunal, elected by the previous sejm, have still not been sworn in. three judges appointed by the new majority are currently not participating in the tribunal’s work. this leaves the constitutional tribunal unable to decide cases in composition of a full bench, which requires the participation of 11 judges. i am deeply concerned by these new developments, which threaten to deepen the rule of law crisis in poland. i therefore urgently call on the polish authorities not to put into force the new laws before the constitutional tribunal has had the occasion to examine their constitutionality, which is the role the tribunal has in the polish constitution. i also call on the president of poland to urgently swear in the three judges elected by the previous sejm, and i call on the poland government to publish, and fully respect, all the previous judgments of the constitutional tribunal. you do not get to pick and choose which judgments you like and then only publish the judgments you like; that is in violation of the separation of powers. the college is following the situation closely and will discuss the situation in poland soon, in order to consider the situation and determine the best way of addressing this situation. let me underline, once again, that this is not a political question; it is about our fundamental values. it is crucial that, whatever a government’s programme entails, it is done in full accordance with the constitution and the law itself. that is why the effective functioning of the constitutional tribunal is so important. this is also crucial for the implementation of all union policies, including the internal market, and is the basis for the mutual trust between member states. the separation of powers is essential for the functioning of our internal market, because the court of justice in luxembourg has to be sure that, in its direct relationship with courts at the national level, there is no interference of the other branches of power. judicial independence is of the essence for the whole system to be able to function, including the functioning of the internal market. to conclude, i would like to thank the european parliament for its continuous efforts to uphold the rule of law in the eu and for supporting the commission’s actions concerning the situation in poland. as i said at our last debate, upholding the rule of law is the shared responsibility of all eu institutions, and it has never been as necessary as it is today. that is why, parliament, your support is crucial; that is why, let me say this again, this is a dispute the commission has with the government of poland, not with the republic of poland – certainly not with the people of poland – but with the government of poland. (applause)
(blue card) president. - the debate is closed. thank you so much. thank you. i'd like to ask you a specific question there. first of all, i think it's very shameful when you say that you're at the bottom of the list, when you commit state violence against women, against polish women. and where you deny women the right to their own bodies.
blue-card question. – there is structural under-reporting of violence against women in all our member states, and i think that is definitely the case in poland also. would you not agree that under the istanbul convention it is a fundamental right of women to live a life free from violence? why should your government withdraw from that? for me, it is a question of the fundamental rights of women, and they are under attack in poland. why is that so?
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. my colleagues! two months ago the polish government wanted to criminalise and imprison women and those who helped them to have an abortion. it was a draconian bill, and so it was perhaps not so unexpected that hundreds of thousands of women and men in poland and in solidarity demonstrations around europe took to the streets. the polish government was forced to retreat. it was a victory for all of us who see women as full citizens. now the polish government is back and resuming its assault on women. the minister in charge of the government has declared that the country wants to withdraw from the istanbul convention. i say it again: withdraw from the istanbul convention. where are we? this is a fundamental international legal instrument to combat all forms of gender-based violence. it is a question of human rights, of the rule of law, of fundamental principles. it is as important as respect for human rights. obviously, they are concerned about the protests of the people, because in addition they are moving forward with proposals, and it has been voted, to restrict the freedom of demonstration. for us, the attack on democratic institutions and rights is linked to the attack on women's rights. it is democracy and fundamental rights that are under attack. i want to see the commission take up the fight for the fundamental instruments that the istanbul convention represents. you can't let it go. it should not be on the map that a member state can abandon the istanbul convention. thank you, thank you! (the speaker refused to answer a question ('blue card') from mrs jadwiga wisniewska)
mr president, i also share the concern of the polish people at the drift away from democracy and the rule of law in their country. the constitutional tribunal has disregarded since march – you said it so well, first vice—president – the proposal to limit the right of assembly, thus undermining civil society. does that mean that polish women demonstrating for their rights will not be able to take to the streets anymore and attend the protests that i wholeheartedly supported? would that be banned? there was another statement from the minister of social affairs that poland intends to withdraw from the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women. today, as co-rapporteur for the convention, i want to reach out to you, colleagues, and to the polish government, to engage in an open and constructive dialogue on their reservations. i call on you, first vice-president, to initiate this dialogue together with the council of europe. let’s do it based on facts, not ideology. and what is the definition of gender-based violence in the convention? it is clear: it is violence done to women just because they are women. we are talking about domestic violence, sexual abuse, rape, child marriage, honour killings. to consider the convention to be against our tradition and culture is a false interpretation, even according to the council of europe. how could punishing criminals and protecting girls be considered against christian values? i therefore ask the polish government to reconsider their intention to withdraw from the convention. i am sure we share these common values on zero tolerance against violence. i want to conclude by saying that we in the ppe continue to stand by the people of poland demonstrating for their rights.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, as we are discussing here in the plenary today, desperate calls for help from people in aleppo are reaching us. men, women and children are being slaughtered by the barbarous forces of the syrian dictator assad and his russian and iranian henchmen. the lack of response from europe is a failure as such, and i am convinced that the judgment on all of us will be harsh in the future. on the issue of migration, i am afraid we are not performing much better. the so called eu-turkey statement was entered into bilaterally between member states and turkey, explicitly designed to circumvent this parliament’s legal rights to consent, or not, to international agreements. basically, the agreement is to hand over eur 6 billion of taxpayers’ money to the autocratic ruler erdoğan, not on the basis of international law or any formal agreement, but on a joint press release. recently, i have heard different member states suggesting concluding similar agreements with countries like libya, tunisia, and even exploring (like australia, by the way) absurd ideas such as external processing centres in these countries. i wonder, commissioner, if the commission today can put an end to such ideas once and for all, and instead focus on the challenges that we are facing together. in other words, concluding the legislation that lies before us on the common european asylum system that must be resilient and stand the test wherever pressure is met in europe. because it is in the absence of a functioning eu policy that this union has outsourced its own responsibility to the autocratic erdoğan regime. i will come back to the greece situation later. greece is something very close to my heart and i will discuss that with you on a different occasion.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would also like to join the chorus of praise for mr díaz de meras for his tireless and outstanding work on this complex issue. despite some strong opposition in the council and sometimes even quite counterproductive interventions, we have now reached the end of this suspension mechanism. and that's good news! it is important that we have reached an agreement because visa-free travel for georgia and ukraine has depended on the eu being able to show that we can deliver. we have now done so and we can look forward to future contacts and exchanges between the eu, georgia and ukraine. in a time when it seems that more and more people want to build walls, it is important that we now manage to lower thresholds and also build bridges between people. and that we can show that trust and confidence are possible. so this is good news for the eu and for all those who will be affected by this. thank you, mr president.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i was reading earlier today about some of the deaths from the terrorist attack in cairo. about that little girl maji. about aida, an old woman and a grandmother. about nabil, who had just become the father of a long-awaited son. we have voted today in this parliament on a report on human rights and democracy. among other things, we voted on a text that makes clear that christians are the most persecuted religious group in the world. the paragraph was supported by a majority, but far too many chose not to support this fact. from my home country of sweden, it is about colleagues in the social democrats, the environment party, the left party and the centre. mr president, i would like to thank you. failure to recognize the extent of the persecution of christians today is a grave responsibility. it's the relativisation of evil and crimes against humanity. it is to betray maji, aida and nabil the victims of the global persecution and genocide that is going on in this country right now.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i am convinced that the petitions, and the petitioners that we invite to the committee to have an exchange with them, help us in the long run to better assess the impact that eu legislation has on people’s daily lives and can also help us to find loopholes in the implementation of eu legislation. by acting as a bridge between citizens and the eu institutions, our committee can therefore contribute to both better legislation and helping citizens in their everyday lives. it is therefore crucial that we ensure that petitions are treated seriously and efficiently. in 2015 we agreed on new internal guidelines in the committee and this reform has enabled us to improve the work efficiently and substantially; the backlog of hundreds of untreated petitions that existed in 2014 is now gone. i am extremely proud of that and the committee is up to speed with the treatment of the petitions. as the chair of the committee i am very happy and proud about this development. i am pleased with the results that we have achieved together and especially the excellent work done by the secretariat during these last years. the backlog that existed before created substantial frustration and disappointment. i therefore believe that the 2015 annual report should include also a special reward to the head of unit, virpi köykkä, and all the staff of the petitions committee for their effort and good work. thank you very much. we can always do better; together we should strive to improve our support to the citizens even further. i look forward to continue this work together with you, colleagues, in the next coming years. especially in these days of increased populism, it is our paramount duty to work together to respond to expectations of eu citizens, and make sure that we do our utmost to bridge the perceived gap between citizens and the eu. and with that i wish all of the colleagues and the secretariat and you, madam president, a very good christmas and let us look forward to a happy new year 2017.
mr president, colleagues, i would like to invite colleagues to rise in solidarity with the children and the civilians who are being slaughtered right now in aleppo and syria. we will ask you to convey the message to the european council today that it is time to act, and not only to deplore, and to ask for an immediate ceasefire and access to humanitarian aid and protection of children. colleagues, please rise. (applause) (the house rose)
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the new mechanism to suspend the visa-free regime for third countries in cases of emergencies or abuse of the system. this mechanism will allow a quicker reaction to crises, while ensuring that the suspension would still be used by member states as a last resort. to ensure democratic legitimacy the european parliament must be consulted to prolong the suspension after the first period of nine months. now that the new suspension mechanism has been adopted, i call on the council to adopt right away a visa-free regime for ukraine and georgia, as they already fulfilled all the benchmarks months ago. we need to show that there are no double standards for the people of ukraine and georgia. it is about the eu’s credibility!
in writing. ‒ with regard to the import of plants and plant parts into the union, it is important that we have a safe system that protects against diseases. what this resolution is calling for, however, are protective measures that are far too disproportionate and costly unnecessary. this leads to what the resolution calls for, which is more or less disguised protectionism. the commission's proposal in this respect is balanced and well-balanced and i see no reason to oppose their proposal. that is why i voted against this resolution.
‒ today the european parliament voted on a resolution on compensation for victims of neuroses. the resolution stresses the importance of compensating the citizens affected and of the eu member states, as well as the pharmaceutical companies concerned, taking their responsibilities. this is an important message which i of course support, which is why i voted in favour of the final vote. at the same time, i would like to stress that health care is a national competence which the resolution does not show sufficient understanding of.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the regulation on paediatric medicines to call on the commission to set a specific system to boost research for innovative medicinal products for children. more resources should be allocated to research to encourage laboratories to develop paediatric indications that go beyond those designed for adult products. i, together with the intergroup on children’s rights, am confident that such a system would be beneficial and life-saving for many children in europe, especially those affected by cancer.
