i have to say, madam president, i would like to begin by thanking all those involved in the compromise. the debate we have just heard reminds me a little of the debate: is the glass half full or half empty? i believe that any compromise is good if it hurts all sides. it hurts our friends especially when they think we could have done more. yes, that's right! i don't think anyone in this house doubts that technologically, much more could be done. and no one doubts that the transport sector is extremely important. it contributes to 15% of the community's co2 emissions and, above all, it is growing very fast. so something has to be done here unquestionable! on the other hand, we must also bear in mind that this will of course cost something. it's true: if you're more innovative, you'll have less carbon emissions, and then you'll also use less fuel. that's right. but of course, the prices go up when you buy it. this is the big problem that the manufacturers are also afraid of, and that is why this step on the brakes is necessary. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i think it is a worrying development that they are now being pushed out of the market worldwide by exaggerated targets. that's why i think the compromise is good. the commission has now been given a task: to clarify how to proceed in 2020. i think it makes sense to do this based on a study. this project is too important to be shrugged off. the commission should keep in mind the global situation - the cost situation of both manufacturers and users - because light commercial vehicles play a special role here. the sharing economy we live in is becoming more and more important. more and more will be transported, and the batches will get smaller and smaller. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. i am not saying that the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the fact that the former norwegian government has suspended the former flagship project of the so-called ccs technology as unprofitable should, in my view, give pause to all those who dismiss the dangers of this new technology, especially since experience shows that the actual available storage capacity is much lower than originally assumed. if a co2 pipeline in which the gas is transported breaks down, how will you notice the release of a gas that has no smell and no taste? there are therefore considerable doubts as to the usefulness of ccs. it's like nuclear power plants, which are sold as being so eco-friendly, just because they reduce the carbon footprint. but who wants to live in a reservoir of high-explosive gases that can mix with existing groundwater and release toxic heavy metals from rocks? the eu should not spend billions on this immature technology with its unpredictable consequences for the environment and for people!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the past, species from non-native regions have been introduced to the area in order to exploit and hunt them. consider the european rabbit that was smuggled to australia in the 18th century. this has become a real scourge of the land, as we know, because of the lack of natural enemies. the 300 million rabbits that are now living in the wild are responsible for destroying the flora of vast areas of land and are causing serious damage to agriculture. the fact that since the arrival of europeans in australia alone, 36 species have gone extinct and another 45 are endangered or threatened should serve as a warning example. but there are also examples from the native plant world. for example, if you walk through the countryside in my home country of carinthia today with your eyes open, you will notice the massive spread of the japanese perennial, which has escaped from the gardens as an ornamental plant. this is causing the displacement of parts of the native flora and consequently also of native animal species. it is therefore of the utmost importance to restrict not only the trade in wild fauna and flora but also the introduction of invasive species in order to protect native flora and fauna from competition, disease and displacement and ultimately extinction. i think we owe it to our children.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. globalization as we know it has been around for about 160 years. in the last 20 years, international trade has grown considerably. i am firmly convinced that globalisation can only work if democratically elected policies create a social and sustainable regulatory framework for the world's 77,000 or so transnational companies. agreements and treaties such as ttip and tafta undermine this very possibility of policy-making. the policy can be downgraded to middle management. it is not sensible, for example, to give companies the right to sue states for loss of profits. if a regulatory council is established, without whose consent the policy cannot act, then it must be very clear that the policy acts in the interests of these transnational companies, but ignores 99% of the population. so from my point of view and as things stand i certainly cannot support ttip or tafta.
mr president, the situation in the republic of cyprus remains the same. in the european union, we still have a divided capital city. we are talking here about the military occupation of european territory. how long will the cyprus issue continue? i asked the president of our parliament, in his capacity as president, to support the republic of cyprus in its efforts to make the occupying power end its immigration policy, withdraw the military forces, return famagusta to its lawful owners, open the port and finally recognise all un conventions and resolutions and thereby do everything to give cyprus its unity back. the occupying power wants to be – and is – a candidate country. that also means respecting european values and laws and acting accordingly. last, but by no means least, it also means fully respecting all member states, including the republic of cyprus.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european union is faced with the threat of black labour and social dumping, together with high unemployment. it is therefore also a fundamental task of the eu to ensure that mobile workers are protected in the internal market. we simply need effective labour inspections. i am grateful to mrs steinruck for her good and constructive report. three points are particularly important to me. firstly, the supervisory authority must not be limited and must cover all categories of workers. the role of the social partners should not be underestimated. social partners know how the labour market works and often also how it does not work. therefore, they should be involved as much as possible. and the third point: circumvention simply cannot be worthwhile. consequently, the sanctions should also be felt by those undertakings which ultimately benefit from this distortion of competition.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the rapporteur for the constructive way in which he has cooperated in the preparation of this report. employee financial participation is a good example of how we in europe can still learn from each other. there are excellent examples of employee financial participation models - i am thinking of the steel foundation in austria, the sociedades laborales in spain, to name two examples. however, it is important for me as a social democrat shadow rapporteur to point out that certain conditions should be observed when such models are introduced. this includes that participation must be voluntary and accessible to all employees, that the social partners should be involved accordingly and that profit participation should always be additional to basic salary. in this sense, i think that if we combine these elements together, we can already start a lot for the future, but step by step and not all at once, as one would say in austrian.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, first of all i want to thank the president-in-office personally, as well as all the representatives of her government who worked so hard to produce a very good presidency which was, i think, successful in many areas. some elements still remain to be discussed in this parliament, for example the banking union. i am not as positive as the president of the commission. it is a bad solution and we have to improve it, and i do not know why you accepted it. we still need to have a lot of debate on the posting of workers. but these are issues that i will come back to tomorrow. i want to speak about two main issues: the mff and the vilnius summit. regarding the mff, once again i am not as positive as you about smart growth. maybe it is a smart solution, but i doubt it; it is not a very growth oriented solution. but we have to speak about the future. i appeal to all the member states to take up the money which is available. we talk about the social issues; migration is a big issue, and poverty migration is a big issue in many debates. then we look at the european social fund: if i am right, the absorption rate was 55 %. in germany, where there is also a big debate about poverty migration, the rate was 63 %. the money is there: why do you not take the money and solve the problem instead of pointing to brussels and the commission and the bad institution? that would be an important step. therefore i think that the budget – low as it is – should be taken up by the member states so they can do their job. secondly, regarding the vilnius summit: was it a success or not? it was partly a success if we look at moldova, georgia and even azerbaijan. on ukraine the picture is mixed. i agree with you, and i agree here with the president. we gave a clear message: money cannot buy everything. the russians will not be able to buy everything. they cannot buy reforms and they cannot buy citizens. perhaps the maidan spirit is something we need in europe in general: people going onto the streets and fighting for values. i know that not every single individual on the streets there is keeping up the values of the european union, but the overall majority of the protesters – the citizens going onto the streets and demonstrating for europe – is something that should encourage us. sometimes it would be good to have demonstrations of this sort in our own countries too, inside the european union. my last point: lithuania will hand over the presidency to the greek government. maybe this is symbolic for us – from the north to the south. we need the whole of europe, we need the north with their capacities, but we need the south too. we need the west and we need the east. we need the poorer and the richer. it is not possible to divide this europe, it is not acceptable. the people who favour division are not here today because we are talking about a specific subject. we have to have a united europe: a europe of solidarity and mutual understanding. everyone has to do their job. but do not let there be a victory for those who want to divide europe. let us have common europe, a europe of solidarity. that is the vision of the social democrats and this house.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. madam president, your presidency of the council, which was otherwise very professional and accurate, will always be associated with the failure of the efforts to conclude an association agreement with ukraine at the vilnius summit. this is regrettable for your presidency, but it is also significant for eu foreign policy. the european union's attempt to play ukraine against russia has failed. and we should learn from that. the spirit of maidan square, which you and commission president barroso have invoked, is really a little too romantic for you. it evaporated relatively quickly, under the impression of a gas price rebate which the ukrainians had received in the meantime. the spirit of maidan square is really a spirit of prosperity. we have seen this before in romania and bulgaria. the people of ukraine believe that their living conditions will improve as they get closer to europe. the romantic values you are instilling in these maidan square demonstrations have nothing to do with the reality there. i therefore appeal to the european union's leaders, and in particular to mrs ashton, to stop playing countries against russia! that brings me to the next chapter: it is regrettable that your presidency of the council will be linked to the ongoing effort to turn this union into a military union. i say this as a citizen of a neutral state: this is unacceptable to us. we have not joined a military union, and i do not want a military union. i do not want a military union that has a clear enemy image. and that's what's being said here. the conflict situation that is developing here with russia is, in my view, extremely dangerous and explosive. i therefore strongly oppose what you and the other leaders of this union said at the summit on 19 december. the eu and nato must not merge. i do not want a military union in europe!
in writing. while the eu presidency may be a great challenge for a small country in particular, it also offers a great opportunity: a chance to put an end to various wrong developments. and the lithuanian presidency has not taken advantage of this opportunity. as regards banking reform, eu rules on bank rescue have stalled at halfway point. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the bank's capital structure is not fully integrated into the banking system. nor has any progress been made in the area of data protection. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of personal data. the european parliament has been very active in the debate on the future of the european union. the eu has also been able to take a number of initiatives to improve the situation in the baltic sea region. and turkey was rewarded after a short handshake for police violence against protesters. in the last six months, the centralist aberrations have been steadily pursued, and the successful northern european economies have been further plundered. it is high time that these erroneous ways were stopped.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not the commission's 2011 proposal for this consumer protection programme proposed the corresponding amount of eur 197 million for seven years at current prices. this amounts to about 5 cents per citizen of the union. this is a very modest programme, if you think about the purpose: safe products and services for our european consumers. in view of the continuing structural crisis, it is imperative that we boost our economic growth and show our citizens the benefits of our internal market. this also means consumer information and education. i have one criticism: it is the administrative expenditure. i think they should be reduced, because more than 20 million euros is far too much. some of it should definitely be for the benefit of the citizens. and so what we need is more transparency and cost efficiency. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur and all those who have contributed to this report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. according to surveys, less than half of eu citizens feel well informed and protected as consumers. in economic terms, consumer spending accounts for a considerable part of the union's gdp, at 56%. i therefore support measures that strengthen the position of consumers and, above all, guarantee greater product safety and better access to legal remedies. what consumers do not need, however, is the accumulation of powers by the commission, as was tried again in the consumer programme through implementing acts. what we also do not need is overprotection, such as oversized warnings and scare images on cigarette packs. what we also do not need is the mandatory regulation of energy-saving light bulbs, supposedly energy-saving taps, vacuum cleaners, etc. what consumers certainly do not need are the negotiations on the transatlantic free trade area behind closed doors. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the foodstuffs are not contaminated. i am curious to see how the legal position of consumers will be strengthened if large companies can in future sue states in an arbitration court if they set too high consumer standards.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i have followed your remarks. i can understand some of the points very well: the positive thing, as you said, is that the rapid voting system is not only for food but also for non-food sectors. i was not quite sure about that, and that is why i would like to ask again: you also mentioned the problem of implementing acts. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. did i hear you correctly?
in writing. - i support this report on networking centres of excellence for effective cohesion policy. the strengths of different regions must be taken into account. each region needs to analyse where its potential lies, and then develop strategies to promote it. it is therefore important that the regions have to present these innovation strategies in order to receive the funding. this prevents promotion by the principle of casting.
in writing. the report on the need for networking for good cohesion policy points to a number of important points. at regional level, there is a significant need for action to involve all actors in order to maximise the benefits of eu investment. the development of research infrastructure in eastern european countries is to be considered carefully, as not all regions are at the same level of development and some require more financial support than others. the use of funds from several funds for a project should also be carefully considered, as there may be potential for abuse.
in writing. - this report on the european parliament's consent procedures points out a very important point in voting. the question arises as to whether, if the necessary majority is not reached and no amendment to the contrary is tabled, a decision is taken in the sense that the committee or the plenary did not take a decision, or in the sense of a decision to the contrary of what was proposed. the rapporteur, however, argues that it could be argued that consent must be given by a positive act and not by interpreting an act of parliament to the contrary. in order to avoid any difficulties, acts which do not reach the required majority should be considered as rejected. in this sense, the report is to be welcomed, since it encourages a clear decision and not the opposite interpretation in the absence of a positive vote.
in writing. − the eu's internal market is one of its most important achievements and at the same time a major pillar of the union. but a common market with all its opportunities and abuses must also guarantee a high level of consumer protection, otherwise it will become a burden for europe's citizens rather than a benefit. the consumer programme, despite some vague aspects of the financial allocation, is a support to this basic idea. the main objectives are to maintain a high level of consumer protection and to improve the enforcement of consumer rights in the internal market. the maintenance of a high level of protection is particularly important in the context of the negotiations with the united states on a common free trade area. in the area of enforcement, it should be noted that eu citizens often still have little knowledge of their consumer rights and that there are a number of programmes in the eu to provide education, information, assistance or dispute resolution. the aim is to intensify these activities and bring them closer to the citizen. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − this regulation lays down the rules for the use of the european union's resources for the consumer protection programme. the programme is to spend 175 million between 2014 and 2020, a small increase compared to the previous period. the main objectives of the programme are to increase product safety, increase transparency in the markets and better enforce consumer rights. they are a clear commitment to strong consumer protection across europe. the programme will make an important contribution to informing and educating consumers so that they can benefit from better offers, products and services on the european market. the aim is to improve product safety by monitoring risk areas more closely in the future. the aim is to ensure the fullest possible information by promoting, licensing and controlling comparison portals on the internet. i also welcome the fact that in future more money will be spent on concrete measures to protect consumers and less money will be spent on administration. in view of the constantly growing variety of products, it is even more important in the future to further strengthen consumer protection and market surveillance in order to reach the full information of eu citizens and to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market.
in writing. − the report is to be adopted following the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets, as the commission's proposals are in line with the europe 2020 strategy. moreover, a consumer programme is particularly necessary at a time of increased economic growth in the eu. the overall budget for the programme is modest, but the amount for administrative expenditure is too high and should be kept lower.
in writing. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity. that is why i am voting in favour of this report. the involvement of the european parliament in the preparation and implementation of delegated acts is a necessary measure.
in writing. the present report deals with the opening and administration of community tariff quotas for high-quality meat and cereals. the commission has been empowered to take the necessary implementing measures and amendments to the regulation in the event of adjustments to the quota quantities and other quota conditions, in particular by decisions on the conclusion of agreements with third countries. the rapporteur grants increased powers to the european commission and the european parliament, and the remit of the committee on international trade remains the same. this is a very welcome development, especially in view of the trade in high-quality food.
in writing. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity. that is why i am voting in favour of this report. amendments to ensure the involvement of the european parliament during the preparation of delegated acts are necessary measures.
in writing. the report aims to reduce trade barriers, in particular customs duties, to turkey on olive oil and other agricultural products. i think this is bad in several ways. first, within the union, the already distressed economies, which often produce agricultural products of this kind, are coming under even more pressure. secondly, this is partly unfair, because the quality of production in turkey is often lower than in the eu, which makes it easier for turkish products to gain a foothold on our market in terms of price than, for example, greek olive oil. thirdly, because of turkey's foreign policy, its rejection of cyprus and its frequent disregard for the fundamental values of its citizens, i see the right response in increasing economic pressure on turkey rather than rewarding it for ignoring important international values and important human rights.
in writing. the report on geographical indications for aromatised wine products aims at clear definitions, presentation and labelling of aromatised wine products. a clearly defined quality policy, protecting both geographical indications and intellectual property, is sought. the compromise reached also eliminated the problems of discrimination against non-member countries on the basis of geographical indications and different labelling. i therefore vote in favour of the report and therefore for clearly defined rules for aromatised wine products.
in writing. - flavoured wine products play a major role for consumers, producers and the agricultural sector in general in the european union. some 90% of the world's aromatised wine production (around 3 million hectolitres per year) comes from the eu, with traditional production firmly rooted in many member states, mainly in central and southern europe but also in the north and east of our continent. in view of this and the fact that the aim is not to amend the existing rules but to update a legal act which has so far ensured the smooth functioning of the market for these products, the commission's proposal, which aims primarily at simplifying and improving the regulation, should be welcomed.
in writing. - i support this report because food safety is playing an even more important role than ever before. the consumer must be protected and food fraud prevented. the european citizens must not lose confidence in agricultural and food products, and any measures to this end must be supported.
in writing. - many of us in the eu are now feeling insecure about food. it is not necessarily a question of a real health risk, formally speaking, in the eu, people are 250 times more likely to die from a flu-like illness than from unsafe food. it's more like we feel like we're being tricked into doing something we didn't want to do. and it's often organic food, fish, olive oil, wine, etc., that studies show we're most commonly cheated on. the report suggests that the focus of the food be changed slightly. the commission and the member states should also give greater emphasis to food control, particularly in relation to fraud in the supply chain, rather than just food safety. to do this, we first need a good (legal) definition of what constitutes food fraud which is lacking in the eu. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information provided by europol is not misused. as none of these points can be harmful in themselves, but rather useful and something really needs to happen here, i voted for the report.
in writing. the rapporteur draws attention to the recent food fraud incidents which have seriously damaged the confidence of european citizens. according to de lange, these cases of food fraud are far too rarely detected because there are no direct consequences for public health. it is further noted that food fraud occurs whenever the economic benefit is significantly higher than the sanctions and fines that would be expected if it were discovered. it is therefore required that the penalties be set at at least twice the amount of the economic advantage sought by the food fraud. the report can therefore be seen as very positive, since the shortcomings are known and steps are being taken and taken in the right direction.
in writing. − we must work together to tackle undeclared work in the eu. i therefore welcome the european parliament's own-initiative report, which aims to coordinate all national control authorities to combat illegal employment throughout europe. almost 20% of the eu's economic output comes from the black economy. this is not only a huge tax failure, but also a massive social problem and a distortion of competition in the eu. the epp delegation in the european parliament therefore today agrees with the european parliament's call for the establishment of a european coordination centre for all national labour inspectorates and competent control authorities to combat social dumping and illegal employment. the aim is not to centralize labour controls at eu level, but to strengthen national labour inspectorates and to commit them to cooperate. the aim is to establish an early warning system which will enable information to be exchanged between national authorities in the event of illegal practices by companies. the european parliament also wants joint training for their managers and the introduction of a european social security card that is counterfeit-proof. the increasing number of crossborder employment relationships means that labour inspectorates and financial supervisors must also cooperate across borders to combat undeclared work.
in writing. - black labour and the exploitation of workers are among the biggest problems facing european labour markets today, alongside unemployment. it is a fundamental task of the european union to ensure that mobile workers are protected in the internal market. we need effective labour inspectorates in europe to do this. i voted for the report by mrs jutta steinruck because it contains the following important points: (a) the supervisory powers of the public authorities must not be limited and must extend to all categories of workers. (b) the control authorities must of course be equipped with the necessary human resources to be able to work effectively. (c) the social partners should be more closely involved in the member states in order to support the control authorities. (d) avoidance must not be justified: the sanctions against those companies which enrich themselves by exploiting workers must be proportionately severe. this also protects decent companies from distortions of competition. (e) the general contractor's responsibility makes it possible to ensure compliance with the labour regulations throughout the production process.
in writing. the rapporteur stresses that the improvement of working conditions in europe should be shaped at european level. the aim is to strengthen the role of labour inspectors and to improve the monitoring of crossborder employment relationships. it is rightly acknowledged that it is difficult to reach a consensus at eu level, as labour law and safety at work are often seen as a national priority. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the excessive use of the single market. it is necessary to assess carefully whether these measures actually provide sufficient benefits.
in writing. − i am pleased to see that the european parliament is advocating for greater involvement of employees in the success of companies. the aim is to ensure that employers share their profits with those who have made a significant contribution to them. this approach is mutually beneficial, as it motivates employees and thereby strengthens the competitiveness of companies. the basic condition for profit sharing is the economic success of the enterprise. if this is not available, then no surplus can be distributed. however, if a company makes a profit, each employee receives a share of it in addition to his regular salary. it is also important that all workers are equally integrated into this system in order to avoid injustices and ensure a fair distribution.
in writing. − employee financial participation is a very useful way for some companies to improve the stability and sustainability of the business. as a shadow rapporteur, i have been able to make many important points in this report and i therefore vote in favour. however, models of employee financial participation are not suitable for all companies in all situations and always involve risks for the employees concerned. such models should only be introduced under certain conditions, such as participation being voluntary and open to all employees, profit-sharing being always complementary to basic salary, the social partners being appropriately involved and the employees having a greater say in the management of the company. employee financial participation is a very good example of how we europeans can learn a lot from each other. there are many best practice examples that we as a company may not be able to copy, but we can certainly emulate. these include the sociedades laborales in spain and the stahlstiftung in austria. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, as in my opinion the employee financial participation (efp) concept has two positive effects. on one hand the role of the efp scheme is to develop the participation of workers in the governance of the companies they are working in. employees have the chance of continuous professional development and training, this leading to a general development of our society. secondly, through more efficient involvement in business activity, employees also contribute to the financial success of companies and corporations, contributing indirectly to a general development of the economy. i personally believe that employee financial participation will raise awareness of the workers and employees across europe’s economic activity, making european companies and corporations more successful and efficient. our citizens, people who are workers and employees, having the opportunity to participate in decision making processes, will feel valuable to the companies they work in and more involved in the economic activity of their corporations. and last but not least they will have a chance of ‘lifelong learning, coaching, training and professional development’, as the efp framework develops long-term thinking.
in writing. - around 15% of the eu working population is selfemployed. the price of their professional self-determination is often the renunciation of social security and welfare. in many countries, the selfemployed are not fully integrated into pension systems and are threatened with old age. social protection is also lacking in areas such as parental leave and unemployment. the problem of false independence is also a problem. to save on social security contributions, employees are declared as self-employed. this distorts competition, violates human rights and increases the risk of social dumping! social protection, i.e. pension provision, parental leave and unemployment benefits, must be structured to better meet the needs of the selfemployed.
in writing. − social security is the cornerstone of a welfare state and the basis for a just and livable society. access to social benefits must be universal and cover all the necessary areas from unemployment benefits to health insurance to pensions. it is the responsibility of the member states to ensure the financing of social protection. it is the only way to ensure that people get the support they need and that social cohesion is maintained. of course, social security systems must also cover the selfemployed and atypical workers, who have increased in number in recent years but who unfortunately often fall out of these systems. this is where the report calls for improvements and that is why i voted in favour of it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. these automatic stabilisers are particularly important in times of crisis, as they boost domestic demand and thereby stimulate the economy. unfortunately, the conservative-liberal crisis management of recent years has done just the opposite: states such as greece have been forced to reduce their social spending to such an extent that large sections of the population have slipped into or are at risk of poverty.
in writing. − eu regional policy, cohesion policy and programmes are not only the expression of the eu’s solidarity with less developed countries and regions, but also an investment policy and tool, an eu financing instrument that will help to meet the new europe 2020 goals, such as to boost small and medium-sized businesses, develop and improve education and professional training, support research and innovation, invest in environment strategies, support energy efficiency and tackle climate change, invest in better infrastructure, and improve access to digital technology. the reformed cohesion policy will make available some eur 366.8 billion to invest in europe’s real economy, regions, and cities. new strategies and measures, and all experiences from the past should be a good start in creating new jobs, generating economic growth, tackling climate change and energy dependence, and especially reducing youth unemployment poverty and social exclusion. this is why i voted in favour of the report. lessons learned from successes or failures of the old cohesion policy period will be a great help in the next programming period, especially at regional level, because we have seen that good relations with member states during all implementation phases of the cohesion policy programmes are those that have succeeded in securing and spending eu funds efficiently.
in writing. − the rapporteur points out that without reliable and comparable data on the production, collection, sorting, recycling, recovery and disposal of plastics, it is very difficult to devise a targeted and effective strategy. the rapporteur also points out that the first step should be to work towards reduction, then reuse and then recycling. the commission is proposing to phase out harmful plastics and to ban them altogether at a later stage. the rapporteur notes that the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and that it is a very important one.
in writing. - i am pleased that the european parliament is today speaking out in favour of the introduction of a regional quality label and measures to promote quality food. a stronger focus on regional products and high quality and traceable quality will not only further enhance europe's image as a high quality producer country, but also create and maintain jobs in rural areas.
in writing. − as the trust of european citizens has been deeply shaken by recent media reports on food fraud, the introduction of a regional quality label offers an opportunity to restore that trust while also supporting the regional economy. the report is very welcome in this sense, because it offers a cover for specific products that are not to be found anywhere else but in a particular regional area. competitiveness is encouraged and, in the context of globalisation, an official european territorial quality label would further open markets for goods and services from new territorial projects.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on transport and tourism. - mr president, i have to say something. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. but what we also need urgently is for these bodies to have the expertise, the experience and the real commitment to implementing what we have proposed here in the european parliament. this is not a trivial task. in the committee on transport, we were particularly concerned that in areas where there is already special legislation, such as public transport, there should be no duplication of standards, which would make the procurement process more complex and more complicated, particularly for bodies such as cities and municipalities. fortunately, that turned out to be the case. we should also do everything in the european parliament to ensure that those who are supposed to apply our standards can also cope with them. that is partly true, but not quite as we expected!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. fortunately, due to strong public pressure, water supply has been excluded from the scope of the concession directive for the time being. i emphasize this first because the commission has invoked a review clause and the derogations are reviewed every three years. this means that the initially planned mandatory tendering procedure in the water supply sector could soon be back on the agenda in brussels. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment. the added value of this directive is generally questionable. municipalities will have to cope with a very complicated set of rules, for example in the area of cooperation at the municipal level. finally, the threshold for the obligation to tender is clearly too low. once again, the eu has had to bow to the pressure of the wto.
i have to say, madam president, we have worked long and hard on this procurement package, and the final result is in sight. as social democrats we are pleased that social, labour and environmental criteria are being applied to public contracts and concessions. this ensures that public procurement can be used to promote socially responsible enterprises, and at the same time it is an important step in the fight against wage and social dumping. the concession directive, which was the subject of a particularly heated debate, was able to enshrine the principles of self-government and freedom of design in accordance with the lisbon treaty. this ensures that public services can remain in the public domain. however, much will depend on the implementation of the directive in the individual member states. i consider it a very special success that the very sensitive area of water supply and disposal is excluded from the scope of the directive for the time being. this is due in particular to the european citizens' initiative right2water. but above all, i see it as proof that democratic procedures are working better and better at european level.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, i would first like thank the rapporteur, ms girling. i would like to congratulate her on the eloquent way in which she laid out the reasons why honey has pollen as a constituent rather than an ingredient. this is not because the commission says so or because the court of justice says so, but because nature says so. i would also like to thank ms gabriel and the shadow rapporteurs for their active engagement on the commission’s proposal to amend the honey directive in order to determine the status of pollen as a constituent in honey. i believe it is important to provide parliament with a mandate for entering interinstitutional negotiations based not on desires, or on opinions on other matters which are only indirectly linked to this question, but simply on objective facts. i also believe this is in the interests of both consumers and beekeepers. i refer to the opinion of ms gabriel of the committee on agriculture and rural development on why it is in the interests of beekeepers to consider pollen as a constituent in honey and not as an ingredient. why should pollen be considered as a natural constituent of honey? for the very simple reason that pollen finds its way into honey as a result of the presence and activity of bees, which are so important in agriculture. you will remember that the commission only recently proposed the prohibition of certain neonicotinoids in pesticides because they were disrupting the bee population. so pollen finds its way into honey, not because the beekeeper introduces it but as a result of the presence and activities of bees. pollen is present in honey independently of the action of the beekeeper, who has no control whatsoever over the presence of pollen in the final product. pollen is therefore not a substance which is voluntarily added, like the additives which we use in food. it is not added voluntarily to the preparation of a foodstuff. it is not an ingredient. it is a natural constituent. it is precisely this that the commission’s proposal seeks to clarify. otherwise, honey would be defined as a ‘manufactured product’ rather than a primary, natural product. not only would this confuse consumers, who would think that honey is a manufactured product, but it would also be at odds with the codex alimentarius international standards, which state that no ingredient can be added to honey. so if we considered pollen to be an ingredient added to honey, that would be a violation of the rules and international standards of the codex alimentarius. i must also appeal to this assembly, as ms girling did, not to turn the commission’s proposal into a pro-gm or anti-gm issue. this proposal does not change the conclusion of the court of justice that our gmo legislation will continue to apply if gm pollen is found in honey. gm pollen in honey has to be authorised under our regulation applying to gm food and feed before it can be placed on the market. turning now to the labelling issue, which lies behind some of the amendments adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, let me stress that consumers would be informed of the presence of gm material in honey in exactly the same way as for any other food product. indeed, the same labelling rules – that is to say, labelling for above 0.9 % of the adventitious presence of gm material by ingredient – would be required as for any other foodstuff (including organic foodstuffs). lastly, let me say a few words on the comitology alignment and stress that the commission proposes delegated acts to amend only those parts of the annexes which do not contain essential elements. i therefore call on the honourable members not to remove the existing delegation granted to the commission under directive 2000/110. i hope i can count on the support of the honourable members to open the inter-institutional negotiations, which could lead us to a first-reading agreement and thus resolve this matter to the satisfaction of both honey producers and consumers.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you're in the liberal group, you're a liberal, and you're dealing with a lot of lobbyists. but if you say that the ingredients of milk are not listed, every time i buy a milk, it says exactly what's in it. i don't know where you get your milk. why are you going around this way? it is not a question of pollen as such, but of the manipulation of pollen by gmos. we in europe want to have natural food labelled as much as possible. are you not subject to a false lobbying influence when you represent the position you represent?
i have to say, madam president, commissioner, what you have just said is a joke for the cabaret, you could also say "pot". don't talk about what you don't know. you're talking about pollen and pollen and natural ingredients. in reality, it is about gmos, genetically modified organisms. this is the wish, this is the concern of so many beekeepers who, i think quite rightly, are bombarding us with emails at the moment saying: we want to preserve what the european court of justice has already established, namely that gmo pollen is not a natural ingredient, because it offers the possibility of actually keeping 100% gmo-free honey on the market. what you are doing is not only interfering in regulatory areas where, in the view of many citizens, the european union has nothing to lose, but you are also undermining confidence in the european union by overturning a decision of the european court of justice. the question is, of course, in whose interest? what lobbyists are you following? we follow, i follow the beekeepers of austria and other countries, you don't know. and rightly so, one must be suspicious.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the ecj clearly has no pleasure in honey if it contains pollen from genetically modified maize or other transgenic plants. that's good! the commission, however, is circumventing this judgment by proposing to classify gmo pollen as a natural component of honey and not to label it. but without the right information, consumers are not free to choose when they make a purchase. the majority of eu citizens are critical of gmos. you have a right to know if a honey contains genetically modified organisms. our local beekeepers, who produce high-quality honey, have a right to protect themselves from competition from gm products. but without labelling, it's not possible. the proposal once again favours the genetic engineering companies and importers and harms domestic consumers and ultimately small-scale beekeepers.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 15 january, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
honey is a very popular food that is enjoyed daily by many people in the eu. however, as with all other foodstuffs, it must be clear to the consumer what he is consuming. many consumers in europe are opposed to genetically modified food. in order to make it easier for people to make a decision on their purchase, it is therefore sensible to label food containing gmos - this is what we have decided in the regulation on food labelling. but that's what common sense says, too! in the case of honey, the ecj has also ruled that pollen should be classified as an ingredient and not as a natural constituent of honey, thus allowing for labelling. so the legal situation is clear! moreover, honey labeled as gmo-free would no doubt be in greater demand in many countries. the citizens must be informed about as many health-related ingredients in food as possible to facilitate their purchasing decision!
the next item is the debate on the report by monica luisa macovei, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the 'hercule iii' programme to promote actions in the field of the protection of the financial interests of the european union (com (2011) 0914 - c7-0513/2011 - 2011/0454 (cod)) (a7-0385/2012).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 15 january, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr hans-peter martin, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 638/2004 on community statistics relating to the trading of goods between member states, as regards the delegation of powers and implementing powers to the commission to adopt certain measures, the transmission of information by customs administrations, the exchange of confidential data between member states and the definition of the statistical value (com (((2013) 0578 - c7-0242/2013 - 2013/0278 ((cod)) (a7-0457/2013).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. let's make it sensible, so short and sweet. i shall not be taking the speaking time i have been given. i would like to thank the rapporteur for the very constructive cooperation he has shown with the shadow rapporteurs, insofar as they have not been shadows but have actually appeared, and of course also the staff and, in this case, the officials in this house, especially in the technical field. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (aema) is a very important one. it's been taken over. delegated acts should remain cost-effective and without additional administrative burden; we have that now, but it will still be voted on separately. i ask for the right signal to the electorate, that we already understand that, when we deal with complex matters, we still do not want to have more bureaucratic effort, that data protection should be maintained, especially in the transmission of data that should not be passed on to third parties, that it should be free of charge when this data is transmitted, and that there should also be no additional excessive costs for the statistical authorities. i was surprised - and i am afraid i must be surprised again tonight - that we had worked together very closely and then on the last day an e-mail came from the socialist group saying that the report could not be accepted in committee because they wanted to go further in the area of the exchange of confidential data in connection with possible physical claims. i've never been justified in that. the vote on this amendment was also not justified. i have it back here anyway, this time for a vote tomorrow. i am very curious to see what mr liem hoang ngoc will have to say on behalf of the s&d group or one of his deputies. we don't really understand, i think that's a bit unfortunate. we in the other groups believe that this is not the place to do it and that the basic content of what should be done is covered.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, it is true that this piece of legislation is very important in terms of the potential reduction of administrative burdens on businesses, because intrastat is the statistical field which is probably the most burdensome in terms of statistics. the proposal which has been made will allow the introduction of new methods which were mentioned by mr schmidt, since that project, if successful, will allow the administrative burden on businesses to be reduced very significantly. so for this reason this is a very important piece of legislation. i would like to make a point on confidentiality issues. first of all we have to be clear here that our proposal extends the scope for the possible exchange of statistical data among statistical authorities. it allows for the voluntary exchange of statistical data between the statistical authorities of the member states, which we did not have before in this regulation. so this is an extension. however, confidentiality is the fundamental principle of official statistics and is recognised globally as the most important element in ensuring that businesses and citizens trust statistics and that statisticians do not start providing information to anybody who asks for this information. here – and this is very important – we are talking about information relating to individual companies: information about the trade of goods by a specific company which could be very sensitive, and that is why we consider that we should limit this possible exchange of information – as provided in the regulation – to statistical authorities and not extend it to other fields such as fiscal fields, as was mentioned by mr ngoc. on the other hand we do not have any evidence that the fiscal authorities lack statistical data. in fact, some member states have introduced systems whereby fiscal authorities participate in the collection of intrastat data through the vat information exchange system (vies) and they benefit from this, but even in this case they have to ensure very strict confidentiality regarding statistical data. that is why the commission considers that we have to stick to what it has proposed in terms of the exchange of confidential data and that such data should not be exchanged more broadly, because that might contribute to a reduction in the credibility of official statistics and in trust on the part of our businesses and our citizens. i would strongly advocate not extending the scope of the exchange of confidential data and adopting the proposal which has been presented by the rapporteur.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i am not sure that the commissioner is aware of this. mr ngoc, you say you have tried so many times. so this is the first time you've spoken directly to me about this matter. i think i understand a little bit what you're getting at. i've been here 15 years. and one of the things i learned here is that if you're talking about the viennese schnitzel and you also like apple strudel, you shouldn't serve the viennese schnitzel with an apple strudel at the same time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i'm against keeping this separate. and rarely enough, mr schmidt, whom i admire for various reasons, does not praise me very often. i am quite on the side of the liberals. i think that's exactly what it is. if we want quality in this data, which we urgently need, i don't have to say the word "greece", if we really want to know how trade flows, how much this is happening, where this is being postponed, we need to provide security for those who provide the data, that they don't have to worry that the data they provide is being used for something else entirely. it does not work in civil law, it does not work in criminal law, it does not work in the rule of law, and it does not work in a comparatively trivial matter like this directive. i would therefore ask you again - or for the first time, because we are talking about this now - to reconsider what you are proposing in your amendments. you've already got us into one extra round. if it were not for your position, which you have now put before me for the first time, i repeat, we would already be in a trilogue. what brings me to the conclusion - you know this, it was also decided in committee - is that tomorrow, after this - as in the biathlon - extra round, because we had to go shooting again, i will ask here in the plenary before the vote on the legislative vote to postpone that very vote, so that we can quickly get into the trilogue and hopefully bring the whole thing to a final stage within this parliamentary term, so that we do not create unnecessary additional costs for european citizens by means of new translations and new procedures.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 15 january, at 12 noon.
the next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading of the committee on transport and tourism on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on tachographs in road transport, repealing council regulation (eec) no 3821/85 on recording equipment in road transport and amending regulation (ec) no 561/2006 of the european parliament and of the council on the harmonisation of certain social legislation relating to road transport (11532/4/2013 - c7-0410/2013 - 2011/0196 ((cod)) (rapporteur: silvia-adriana ţicău) (a7-0471/2013).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the vote tomorrow will bring an end to an endless story. the tachograph and the obligation to have a tachograph and to use it to check driving and rest times have been debated for ten or fifteen years, but unfortunately have not been implemented by the member states. and it's such an important issue. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not affected by the current situation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied in a uniform manner. now, in the final negotiations, thanks to the rapporteur, we have succeeded in putting a little weight behind the council's persistent and stubborn opposition to this regulation. we've accomplished a few things. some, however, are also popular on the track. for example, in my view, this exception for craftsmen is something that is likely to be very much abused in the future. we will have almost no professional drivers, but only more craftsmen who happen to be on the road with the truck. i see a big problem here, unlike my predecessor. however, there have also been some achievements which i find very positive. speed is being recorded. here too, there are repeated speeding violations, and with 40 tons in the back, it is difficult to brake. of course, the 40 tons in the back can also lead to more violent, more dangerous situations in traffic and accidents. however, a grey area still exists. there is no real way to prevent drivers from being used in their off-time to load, repair or perform other work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied in a uniform manner.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to ask mrs ford, after she has spoken about tax competition and there is a lot of support for the idea that minimum tax rates should be introduced, whether it would not also be sensible to set up ceilings for taxes and say: 'ok, a maximum burden on companies is permissible in international competition to this or that extent. do you think it would also be possible to reduce the tax burden on workers so that more purchasing power is created? so should europe not demand ceilings on taxes and not minimum restrictions?
i have to say, madam president, i would also like to thank commissioner tajani for bringing this reindustrialisation debate back to the european union. we must ensure that 7% of the population in europe and 25% of production will continue to pay for 50% of the world's social benefits. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need to have a european policy on the environment. we have a lot of regulations that are hindering our industry. i believe that president barroso has set the right course here. let's look at the ten examples that are holding back our industry. let us see what we can do in europe for energy production, for the extraction of raw materials! how can we create the values in europe ourselves? commissioner tajani, thank you for taking this initiative.
in writing. industry is the backbone of the european economy and the engine of growth and employment. however, the european industry is facing major problems, especially in the crisis; some 2.7 million jobs were lost. if we want to create a job-intensive upswing in europe, we need a successful industrial policy. this report and the commission's communication on 'a stronger european industry for growth and economic recovery' provide some of the key points. i would like to emphasize the following factors: the abandonment of austerity is a basic prerequisite. the member states must finally start investing more in research and development, in infrastructure, in education and training, etc. this would create jobs, strengthen businesses, domestic demand and ultimately the whole economy. industrial policy must also promote the qualification of workers. the establishment or expansion of dual training systems is an effective measure. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. finally, it is crucial that the role of the social partners be strengthened in all areas of industrial policy. this is particularly true of the rights of workers to information and consultation in the event of restructuring, but also of greater participation in the management of the company. this contributes to the sustainability of european industry and the 'industrial renaissance' referred to in the report.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i will follow the good example of mr daul. prime minister, you do not have an easy job, neither in greece nor here – although it is your own choice to be prime minister of greece. i must say at the outset, however, that we believe in the greek presidency. i detest the many prejudices and suspicions about your country having the capacity to hold a greek presidency. you did it in the past, you will do it again and you will fully support this presidency because it is an important one, not only for greece but also for europe. i also want to say clearly – because there are other rumours and myths – that greece has already carried out a lot of reforms. i have been to greece quite often, and i know that you have done a lot of hard work and have effected many difficult reforms. most importantly, as all of you in government know, this is not the end of the reform process but rather the beginning of it. you may not gain politically from it – neither you nor our friends from the pasok party – but it is important to carry out the reforms, and we have to help. you thanked us – the commission, the council and parliament – but we have to do more. for example, as deputy prime minister venizelos has rightly asked, why does greece have to pay back all its debts so quickly? germany and austria had nearly 100 years to pay back some of their debts. so, let us be honest and let us be helpful to greece concerning its debt repayment. reform is necessary, yes, but some of the demands of the troika are totally unacceptable, and the method is not acceptable. mr barroso, mr president of the commission, despite the fine words about social networks, employment, etc., many of the demands of the troika – not all, but many – are unacceptable because they are destroying the social network, and that is not acceptable to us. i do not want to go into the details: you know them perfectly well and our greek colleagues know them perfectly well. your vice-president mr rehn attended the committee on economic affairs this week, and some of his remarks there made things even worse. he said that everything is agreed between the troika and the member states. well, yes: if you have a pistol and you ask somebody whether he agrees with your demands and he says ‘yes’ in order to survive, that is an agreement, but it is not a fair agreement, and therefore the troika has to be phased out. let me be very clear: these so-called contractual agreements will be opposed in the same way that the troika is opposed, because they represent a way of bringing in the troika method by the back door. we want the community method: we want democracy in the relationship between the commission and the member states. that is what we are fighting for. and of course we want the social model to be implemented. let me turn to the situation in europe. yes, there are slight improvements, and we are happy about that – especially about the improvements in greece. but the unemployment situation is still a disaster. you mentioned it just today, president barroso. it is being predicted in some quarters that unemployment may even grow in 2014. we are not in danger from inflation, but we remain in danger from deflation. this affects many countries, because not enough is being done to create jobs, and here i agree fully with what mr daul said: we still have banks which are not putting the cheap money they get from the european central bank into industry and business, where jobs need to be created. therefore we demand that central banks should lend money where it is needed. the national central banks and the european central bank need to act. we are happy about what they have done, but they need to do more. let me turn now to banking union. i am happy that mr samaras is here. the banking union proposals are not acceptable to us. they were not even acceptable to the majority of the eu member states, but nonetheless an agreement on them was finally reached. that agreement will not fly, because this parliament – and we have heard strong words from all the political groups – will not accept the banking union as it is. we need radical changes. the process is too complicated. it is like having an outbreak of fire and the fire brigade having to begin by asking the mayor to convene the city council and ask the counsellors’ permission to put the fire out, then going to the burning house and having to ask all the neighbours to give you some water. this is not a serious or a feasible approach, and you can see the determination that exists in this house on this issue. we need radical changes, and i am asking the greek presidency to be helpful here, because we can achieve those changes only with your help and that of the commission. another important issue for the greek presidency – which i cannot deal with in detail now – is that of data protection, where we have all these bilateral approaches. what did the americans say to the germans when the germans said they wanted a no-spy agreement? they said ‘no’: no to a no-spy agreement! that was the ‘no’ – it was not ‘no’ to spying. that is why we need a european approach. we have been waiting for months already for the council to come to the negotiating table on data protection. this is necessary, and i hope the greek presidency can help here. let me come now to the freedom of movement debate in europe, which is a very interesting one. some politicians, including david cameron, have claimed there are figures which demonstrate the enormous scale of the misuse of social benefits. now i read in the papers, in the news today, that mr cameron has asked the relevant minister to postpone publication of the data until after the european elections. why? because the data do not prove any massive abuse of social benefit. thank you, mr cameron. at least he is saying clearly that what he said previously was wrong, and that much is good news. i do not deny that there are problems. there are some problems, but let us fight the real problems. as the commission made clear this week, all the member states can play their part in preventing the abuse of social benefits. let them do it! if the member states do not do it, then the finger should not be pointed at brussels. it should be pointed at their own capitals, where they need to do their job to prevent such abuse. what is even more important, however, is to prevent the social dumping that we are experiencing in europe. some companies misuse workers in order to undercut salaries and to undermine standards and working conditions. here we need a change. we want an effective posting of workers directive to fight social dumping, and we want to see the rules being implemented. it may be possible to find a solution here, and we need the greek presidency to help. but the first requirement in the new parliament will be for a new posting of workers directive capable of combating the undermining of salaries and social conditions. to conclude, prime minister samaras, although you are not from our political movement – as has been said already, nobody is perfect – you know the social situation in your country. we accept that what you said at the end of your speech about europe is valid and we fully support it, but what we need in order to convince our citizens that they should fight for europe – and maybe even demonstrate for europe – is a social europe. if you make a contribution towards a social europe, we will fully support you.
i have to say, madam president, mr president-in-office, i listened very carefully to your presentation. you spoke of mistakes on the european side. i have not heard how you lied to the european citizens, how your country lied to these citizens, lied to them, lied to them with false financial data from the beginning. you should never have become a member of the euro area! i have not heard you thank all the european taxpayers, all those who, because of the low interest rates on savings accounts, are now paying for your heinously bloated political apparatus. i have not heard from you that you have continued to seriously contain this absurd apparatus, which is known to anyone who has ever been to greece. instead, you talked about mistakes. that is not how a functioning european unity works!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in yesterday's econ committee hearing on the troika evaluation, former ecb president trichet reminded us that we are facing the biggest economic crisis since the second world war, that if we had not intervened so massively, we would have committed ourselves and, above all, countries like greece, to the greatest economic and social crisis since 2010, which would be greater than that of 1929. in this context, you will assume the presidency of the council. you're challenged from within, greece; they are challenged to strengthen the community to take the next steps towards integration keyword banking union; and we are challenged to make the european union more democratic, more transparent, more efficient and more capable of action. that brings me to the banking union. we are negotiating the winding-up mechanism and the winding-up fund. the council's proposal and our proposal are still miles apart. the council wants a veto for the nation state, and we want a european solution. if we have really learned the lessons of greece, then the response to the crisis must be the community method, community legitimacy, community control and the ability of europe to act, and it must not fail on the veto of the member states.
in writing. – dear presidents, dear colleagues, welcome, greece, to the new presidency. running the presidency is certainly a difficult task that you are facing right now, considering your current situation and especially the financial crisis which is still present in the whole eu, and not only in your country. in the meantime, you are doing somehow ok, figure-wise – but how are your citizens actually doing? are you aware of the many people who work in officially precarious workplaces and are actually part of the shadow economy, as was reported in a meeting in athens in october? interestingly enough, we just learned that you want an ‘adaption of certain parameters’; alternatively, you would consider leaving the eurozone. is this your answer to the ‘fair’ treatment that the eu has given you? some would consider this rather to be blackmailing. what will our eu citizens say if they have to pay your debts and your interest? i am convinced that, as the current presidency, we can expect certain ways of handling this crisis, especially since you have the presidency now and national issues should not be on your discussion table in that phase. i expect this presidency to continue to focus on european matters.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, as my predecessors have done, i ask that the final vote be postponed so that we can enter into a trilogue and bring this to a successful conclusion during this parliamentary term.
in writing. − a careful and thoughtful consideration should be given to whether the specific programme 'prevention, preparedness and response to terrorist attacks and other security risks' should be effectively discontinued. according to the rapporteur, this programme will be replaced by the internal security fund, the isf-police, for the period 2014-2020. however, it is necessary to consider carefully whether this will still ensure the same level of safety for european citizens.
in writing. − since 2000, there has been an agreement between the eu and the russian federation on scientific and technical cooperation. the agreement has now expired and should be renewed on the same terms. according to media reports, russia and the eu want to expand their cooperation in the field of research. the eu funds will also be used to fund joint projects. the commission will also be presenting a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. i voted in favour of keeping the agreement, because i believe that it can be of great benefit to the eu to enter into cooperation, particularly in the field of technology and science. this not only opens up a new market but also creates a successful exchange of know-how.
in writing. − in all the weighting of the eu's attention towards the west in the context of the free trade talks with the us, it should not be forgotten that the world is made up of more nations. the danger of losing or even frightening many other partners by being too one-sidedly oriented towards the united states is real. therefore, meaningful cooperation with other important nations in the eu's wider and closer regional and geopolitical environment remains of long-term importance for both substantive and geopolitical reasons. i therefore voted in favour of the report and therefore the renewal of the agreement.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as the changes needed were recommended by the european central bank. the ecb opinion is that certain changes should be introduced with regard to the technical specifications of the euro coins intended for circulation. the changes mentioned only consist of a replacement of all existing values relating to the thickness of coins with new values. the european central bank considered it appropriate that such indicative values be replaced by the real thickness values of euro coins, which are well known and used as reference value by the mints to produce the coins.
in writing. − asean is a major economic actor with which the eu shares both political and economic interests. i therefore welcome the negotiation of seven partnership and cooperation agreements between the eu and individual asean member states. the deepening of eu-asean relations is expected to have a positive impact on both sides. i therefore support this report on the future of relations with asean, but the eu must have a more intensive political dialogue in the future on fundamental and human rights and freedom of expression. there can be no compromise here.
in writing. − the report is intended to draw attention in an appropriate way to the eu's relations with asean, the association of southeast asian nations, which are often unjustifiably overshadowed by the eu's relations with china, japan and india. this is the case even though asean's purchasing power and economic size are already comparable to china's purchasing power and economic size and asean's political influence is increasing. the eu and asean share a number of common features, which provide considerable potential for synergies and mutual learning processes. the report analyses the future eu-asean relations in a global context, with particular reference to china, japan and the united states, and makes recommendations in this regard. in this context, it will discuss how the eu can contribute more to the asean integration process. this is very important for the future economic relations of the eu, which is why i voted in favour of the balanced report.
in writing. − the rapporteur rightly points out that the south-east asian region cannot be reduced to japan, china and india alone and that significant developments have already been achieved in the areas of security, corruption and human rights. nevertheless, there is still a great deal of need for action, as human rights violations are still being committed in some countries, nuclear disarmament needs to be pushed forward and environmental protection and public safety should also be addressed more. the eu's pioneering role can provide significant political and humanitarian support, although the actual scale of its impact remains to be seen.
in writing. − by equipping long-distance lorries and buses with 'intelligent tachographs', we save time and money for those transport companies that respect driving and rest times, thus increasing road safety. with the new tachographs that can be read remotely, the often hour-long wait at road checks for shippers is finally over. i am particularly pleased about the exemption from the tachograph regulation of craft enterprises within a radius of 100 km of the company headquarters. this is an important signal to support the domestic economy!
in writing. − as traffic on europe's roads increases, there is a growing awareness of measures that can contribute to road safety. the introduction of intelligent tachographs, for example, will enable more and, above all, more precise controls. in particular, in the transit sector, road haulage is still used, for example, in respecting rest periods for drivers, which can lead to considerable traffic risks. i believe that increasing the number of cotton rolls, particularly in the transit sector, can make a significant contribution to overall road safety. more and more targeted controls by new technical systems, such as the intelligent tachograph, could put an end to manipulation. but since the draft rejects the text and would thus overturn the proposal, i voted against it. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union.
in writing. − the report by silvia-adriana ţicău deals with the issue of 'smart tachometers' and points out that they should be introduced with the aim of improving road safety and fair competition between transport companies. media reports often deal with the fact that overtired drivers are stopped after they have been well over the allowed driving time and thus pose a danger to road users. the report presented can therefore be seen as a step in the right direction, as smart tachometers are intended to prevent these circumstances. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. this is a decision to be made with due consideration. however, the precise definition of professional motorists and the strict exclusion of non-professional drivers from these checks are to be welcomed. there was no final vote on this report, only an amendment which i rejected.
in writing. − public procurement is a huge and therefore important part of the european economy. in addition, public procurement also ensures a stable situation. however, there are sectors, such as the construction industry, where there are few rules on concession levies. they are subject only to the basic provisions of the public procurement directives, and for service concessions there are rules only in the form of the general principles of the treaty and extensive case law. the result is that there is no clarification of the legal framework. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. however, i believe that the flexibility which the report highlights as a key point may once again open up too many back doors and that this could lead to another lack of transparency which the directive is intended to promote. that is why i abstained.
in writing. - fortunately, due to strong public pressure, water supply has been temporarily excluded from the scope of the concession directive. i emphasize that for the time being, because the commission has invoked a review clause and the derogations are reviewed every three years. this means that the initially planned mandatory tendering procedure in the water supply sector could soon be back on the agenda in brussels. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment. the added value of this directive is generally questionable. municipalities will have to cope with a very complicated set of rules, for example in the area of cooperation at the municipal level. finally, the threshold for the obligation to tender is clearly too low. once again, the eu has had to bow to the pressure of the wto. i therefore could not vote for the report, while a vote against it would be equally unjustified, given the many concessions achieved through public and parliamentary pressure. there was only one abstention left.
in writing. - the concession directive was discussed at length and in a very lively manner. the commission proposal contained controversial points which parliament was able to deflect. the most important success was the exclusion of sensitive water services from the scope of the directive, not least because of the first successful european citizens' initiative right2water.eu. the complex rules governing public cooperation and public procurement have been simplified as far as possible. in addition, the principle of self-government by national, regional and local authorities was explicitly recognised in the text of the directive. the principle of freedom of design of public services is also a principle. this ensures that public services remain in the public domain. finally, binding criteria for enterprises were established: companies that receive a concession must comply with social, labour and environmental regulations. the result of the negotiations is therefore a marked improvement on the commission's draft. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − there are compelling reasons for a legislative initiative at eu level in the field of concessions. the lack of legal certainty and the continuation of unbundled procurement in breach of the essential principles of the internal market of the european union require a clear eu legal framework.
in writing. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents. the original commission proposal has been considerably improved by rapporteur philippe juvin, so that the text now before us takes account of the specific features of concession contracts. this is a balanced approach between the flexibility of public authorities, the much-needed transparency of procurement procedures and the equal treatment of economic operators. the concession directive creates clear rules of the game and ends the fragmentation that has prevailed so far due to different national regulations. i particularly welcome the clear exclusion of water from the scope of the directive. water is a public good of public utility and as such is already regulated in article 14 of the lisbon treaty as a treaty principle. the member states have exclusive regulatory competence for the general rules on the manner in which services are provided. an important element of this subsidiary freedom of design lies in the explicit recognition of local and municipal self-government in the provision of services. this means that the decision on which services are to be licensed remains with the municipalities or the federal and state governments. the proposal for a directive never contained anything to the contrary, but many citizens have expressed fears about the alleged forced privatisation of water supply. in austria, there has been a lot of panic about this issue, which is being removed from the scope of any nutrient soil with the new, clear provisions and the explicit exception of water.
in writing. - i support this report because it aims to make the existing rules more flexible and easier to apply. the report, which is in line with the compromise reached with the council at the trilogues, will make it possible to achieve such a simplification of the rules governing public procurement.
in writing. − the revision of the public procurement directives should seek to find a middle ground between simplification of rules and effective procedures with sound award criteria. the revision is better overall, but social criteria are still lacking. there is still no possibility of taking local or national workers into account. this means that the hands of contracting authorities are still tied in some areas, especially in view of the still rigid case law of the ecj in this area. that is why i cannot agree to the report.
in writing. − public procurement accounts for almost one fifth of european gdp and is thus a major driver of the european economy. the strategic use of public expenditure is an important means of achieving social and environmental objectives. the directive aims to reform the european rules on public procurement. i voted in favour of the report because the socialist group was able to enforce mandatory social, labour and environmental criteria in the award of public contracts. it promotes companies that act socially and sustainably. this can also help to combat wage and social dumping.
in writing. − in times of crisis in the european economy, the potential of public procurement in the single market must be fully exploited. the aim is to ensure sustainable growth and employment in the future, so that the union emerges strong from the crisis. so this report can be described as a step in the right direction.
in writing. − the best way to ensure effective and socially sustainable public procurement is through approaches. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. the question is, for whom? for cheap workers from low-wage countries like bulgaria? the revision is better overall, but social criteria are still lacking. there is still no possibility of taking local or national workers into account. that is why i cannot agree to the report.
in writing. the report by marc tarabella examines the current situation in the award of public contracts and advocates a tightening of the criteria, which could benefit, among others, small and medium-sized enterprises. the commission also proposes to limit subcontracting. these approaches should lead to fairer contracting and also provide more opportunities for smes to enter and establish themselves.
in writing. − many third countries want to avoid opening up public procurement and concession markets to international competition in general or to a greater extent than has been the case so far. the actual accessibility, i.e. penetration rate, depends on a variety of factors, such as the size of the market, language barriers, technology, specialisation, etc. protectionist requirements such as the obligation to transfer technology as a condition for the award of public contracts and/or requirements relating to a domestic production share are problematic. the eu is having difficulty in getting third countries to commit themselves in this area in trade negotiations. the present report does not provide satisfactory solutions to the problems which arise, but it is not to be rejected in principle. that is why i abstained.
in writing. - opening up the market to third countries and offering public contracts and concessions to international competition is commonplace in our time. the developing countries must not be the losers in this regulation. in any case, the matter should be approached with caution, in order to act in the spirit of the common commercial policy. the final vote has been postponed.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of genetically modified organisms (gmos) in the production of food. the fact that in future it will not be possible for consumers to identify on the label whether honey contains pollen from genetically modified plants, because the legal construction of the labelling obligation is too controversial, is grotesque. finally, it is important that consumers are informed.
in writing. the report considers pollen to be an ingredient, which means that there is no labelling requirement for genetically modified pollen. consumer protection must be a priority in this matter. the labelling of honey containing genetically modified pollen must be visible to the consumer. in order to maintain european standards in the field of consumer protection and food quality, i am voting against this report.
in writing. − according to the judgment of the european court of justice of 6 september 2011 in case c-442/09, pollen from genetically modified plants is to be considered as an ingredient of honey or food supplements containing pollen within the meaning of regulation (eu) no 1169/2011 of the european parliament and of the council. the commission now proposed in its proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 2001/110/ec on honey that 'pollen is a component of honey which does not contain any ingredients as a natural substance'. according to this reasoning, genetically modified pollen should also be considered as a natural component of honey. this is not acceptable to consumers or to beekeepers who produce a natural, high-quality product. i therefore supported the proposal of the committee on the environment, which is committed to the interests of beekeepers and consumers.
in writing. - i abstained because the majority of the amendments which were critical (including the one on gmo pollen) were adopted. the final vote has been postponed.
in writing. - our aim must be to prevent subsidy fraud from the outset. this requires not only stricter sanctions but also a consistent simplification of the rules, as has already been done, in order to close loopholes which fraudsters can exploit all too easily. it is of course important in this context to continue the hercule anti-fraud programme to promote anti-fraud training and technical and scientific support. the european commission's continued push for the creation of an eu prosecutor is, however, a matter of concern. i have incorporated these considerations into my voting behaviour.
in writing. the 'hercule iii' programme is designed to promote action in the field of the protection of the european union's financial interests. the following priority areas will be given special attention: cigarette smuggling, trade in counterfeit cigarettes, corruption and fraud and other illegal activities. the commission will also be able to take account of the need to ensure that the rules are not overlapping and that duplicate work is avoided. the overall financial allocation for the implementation of the programme is eur 110 million for the period 2014-2020, but the author stresses the importance of greater budgetary discipline. the report is to be welcomed in this sense, since the financial security of the european union and its citizens is important.
in writing. − the rapporteur points out that increased data exchange can improve the quality of european statistics. however, it should be noted that the cost savings sought should not be over-emphasised, as they may be used in the wrong places. neither privacy nor security should be neglected when exchanging confidential data, and at this point, cost savings should be carefully weighed.
in writing. − the illegal trade in products of protected species is a thriving business, estimated to generate at least $19 billion in annual sales worldwide. it serves as a source of revenue for a global criminal network and thus also promotes the support of militant rebel groups, especially in africa. it is also feared that the hunting of certain already scarce species will soon be unable to prevent their extinction. the other aspects of these crimes are political unrest, threats to the security of some countries and their economies, and not least the deprivation of local livelihoods. i believe that there is no question that poaching and crimes against wildlife and protected species should be prosecuted and punished severely. the reality, however, is that the rulers of many of the countries concerned are making too much money from this form of trade and have little interest in putting a stop to it. i am afraid that the measures proposed by the eu may prove to be ineffective as long as there is no successful cooperation with these countries and the horse is reared once again from behind, so i have abstained.
in writing. - it is essential that the penalties for offences against wild fauna and flora should be increased. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. the eu should act in unison in this area and impose stronger penalties, which should also be carried out in consultation with non-eu countries. in addition, the citizens of the union should be informed and made aware of the seriousness of the offences in this area.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, there are 26.5 million people unemployed in europe today. nine per cent of all europeans live in extreme poverty. one quarter of europeans are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. these are the problems facing europe. freedom of movement in europe, however, is not a problem. it is a right and a pillar of the european union. people do not want just a single market for goods and services; they also want a joint and common labour market. therefore i really deplore the fact that some people, especially those on the very extreme right – if they were here they could now debate the issue, but they are not here – fight against freedom of movement. we progressives take the concerns of our citizens seriously. we understand that there is an on-going crisis in which millions of people have lost their jobs, their homes and their hope for a better future for themselves and their children, and that those people are looking for answers and for help. but national governments that allow people to be exploited and to be paid less than a decent income are the problem, and they should answer to their citizens and fight against social dumping. it is much too easy to point to brussels as being the one responsible for the disaster, but if we look at the figures which have been mentioned, only 2.7 % of eu citizens live in other eu countries, and that is a big problem. poverty migration is a problem – but because poverty is the problem, not because migration is the problem. there are single cases of abuse, as has been mentioned, but it is up to the member states to fight against it. as i said this morning, it is very strange that mr cameron wanted to make a big fuss about it and wanted to show the figures in the coming weeks but then said ‘no, no, no, i have to go back and we will present the figures after the european election’. mr cameron should join mr miliband, for example, in fighting against low-paid jobs, and the lack of qualifications and in fighting for a better posting of workers directive. ironically, those countries or those politicians who are now engaged in a frantic debate about the dangers of abuse were the first to let us down when we wanted an improvement of the eu directive, especially the eu directive to prevent social dumping. the debate we are witnessing is painful because it is reminiscent of a time before the european union, a time where people, nations and minorities were singled out and attacked. like many others, i am very happy that romanians and bulgarians are here, and i find it particularly disgraceful that now, with the labour market opening for romania and bulgaria, we are starting to think about fingerprinting and curtailing their rights. let us have a common europe and a common labour market, because this is the only chance to have a social europe for everybody, for romanians and british people at the same time.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i may have misunderstood you, but in part of your speech you spoke of third country nationals and mentioned romanians and bulgarians. that would be the first question. and secondly, did you not think it necessary that those member states which are now putting this freedom of movement of people in question should contribute more to cohesion policy, so that more investment would be made in those regions where these movements are taking place, so that jobs would be created there, so that this would help europe to find a quality of life where people feel at home?
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i have a question to mr ivan, as a member of the socialist group, after it is always said that the debate in england is being fomented by nationalists, and i am absolutely against nationalists: is it true that it was primarily jack straw, the former labour minister, who has now, in retrospect, spoken out against opening up, that it was a social democratic labour member of parliament in england from sheffield, blunkett, who feared a riot? is that all true, or would you say jack straw has become a nationalist?
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the movement of workers also has benefits for consumers. europe is made up of 100% consumers. what advantages do you see here in the purchasing power of consumers?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i remember the '90s very well. and then the internet had this really big commercial push, and for the first time, there was a big counter movement that had this vision of a free and post-economic internet. it was a utopia, that's right. and nothing has remained of this utopia, quite the contrary, it has become a dystopia. it must be made very clear that all the safeguard mechanisms we have, including a safe harbour agreement for example, are not working at all, that the handling of the scandal is not working, that reforms are not progressing at all, quite the contrary, that they are being blocked partly by the council, partly by the member states, partly also by the commission. what we need is determination. we need a change of direction. we need a european plan of action. we need reforms in the area of internet governance, in the area of data protection, in the area of internet economics and in the area of democratic control of intelligence services. if we do not get that, then what we are discussing here today is also pointless. and we do not need these reforms tomorrow, we need them today!
in writing. the commission itself has already acknowledged that us companies do not comply with the data protection standards agreed under the safe harbor agreement. this would be to the detriment of european citizens and businesses. the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' is in line with the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority'. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data, in particular by introducing a new data protection framework. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of personal data in the event of a breach of the data protection rules is therefore in line with the commission's approach to the protection of personal data. if the commission itself admits to data protection shortcomings in relation to safe harbor, i would urge it to consistently suspend or renegotiate the agreement in the interests of the citizens. the transfer of european data to the usa must not be legitimized by an agreement which us companies are clearly in favour of in practice.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the granting of citizenship is clearly a matter for the nation states, since it constitutes membership in a nation. in general, people are born into such a community, and more and more often they acquire such rights by moving to it and subsequently staying there for a longer period. most states have also created opportunities to grant citizenship on the basis of special merits or state necessities. it is therefore quite reasonable that there are different national approaches to the conditions under which citizenship is granted by the member states. however, it should be borne in mind that national citizenship also confers union citizenship, and thus also acquires corresponding union-wide rights. there is certainly a european interest in this. the debate is therefore welcome and should not be limited to the occasion but should be conducted in a general way. this discussion must also address controversial issues such as the fact that the granting of citizenship is increasingly also seen as a political means of influencing the internal politics of neighbouring states. the commercialisation of the award is particularly questionable. it is not acceptable for advertisements to offer for sale the nationality of a member state. the union must not tolerate such practices! this is a mockery of all those who risk their lives trying to cross the schengen borders. and linking the granting of citizenship to the ability of an applicant to pay is unacceptable under any circumstances!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the loose handling of naturalization has been a big problem for some time. some eu members are becoming the gateway to the union, whether with spanish mass amnesties for millions of illegal immigrants or to win votes and improve romanian state finances the only novelty is that in malta there is a fixed price for the passport. the eu's free movement is thus becoming a questionable business model, and as long as immigration is allowed into our social systems and criminals with assets of unknown origin can buy the eu passport with ease, it is unlikely that anything will change. it is interesting that commissioner reding, in the run-up to the plenary debate, is talking about only those people who have real links with the country should be given a passport. the same principle should apply to asylum, otherwise we would hardly have parallel societies in which newcomers would regard learning a new language as a privilege. it is therefore high time to close all the floodgates and put an end to both the selling-out of citizenship to the rich and the incentives for poverty migration.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, it is almost six years since the republic of kosovo declared independence and started on its path towards the european union. kosovo has come a long way considering the aftermath of war, killings, refugees, people living abroad and returning when independence came about, and the need for state-building. i often say that the other ex-yugoslav states have built on what was already there from yugoslavia – an administration – but that by comparison, kosovo had to start anew. we have to take that into account. nevertheless there is a need for more impetus in order to improve things. but we all know that it is a long and winding road for kosovo on its way towards the european union, with lots of internal obstacles but also external hurdles, and there are still more to come. but the last year has been one of great progress. this has been said by you, commissioner, and by the presidency, by jelko kacin. the 19 april agreement was one of historic relevance, not just for kosovo and serbia but for the balkans and for all of us europeans, and i think even worldwide. i would like to thank vice-president/high representative ashton, but also you, commissioner füle, and of course the two prime ministers for what they have started to do. the fact that kosovo has been able to start negotiating a stabilisation and association agreement (saa) with the european union is the first real step towards accession, and that should not be underestimated; nor should other issues that the agreement carries with it, which might seem minor – such as the fact that kosovans in the future will be able to use a telephone code of their own for mobile phones and not the slovenian or monaco ones. these are things which help the lives of people in the country. i would like to congratulate the citizens and the administration of kosovo on one other major area of progress in this past year. the way in which the first and second rounds of local elections was conducted in the enclave south of ibar – after the disappointment and anger of the 2010 national elections – provided proof for kosovan citizens that each vote counts and that it is possible to change things in a democratic way and with elections. nevertheless, the violence that took place in the north is very much regretted and condemned by this parliament in my report. more seriously, the fact that the new mayor of north mitrovica has refused to be inaugurated under kosovan law is something that we regret very much and criticise, because the north of kosovo is part of the territory of kosovo and has to be ruled under kosovan law under pristina – which is why i am going to table an oral amendment tomorrow, and i hope everyone will follow me on that. we ask that this process of new mayoral elections in north mitrovica will not hamper the progress of the process that started so well last year. there are lots of internal obstacles. kosovo has to reform intellectual law. the fight against corruption and organised crime, especially at high level, has to continue, and i very much regret the fact that the kosovan authorities tried to revoke the mandate of eulex (the european union rule of law mission) in the middle of this year. i hope there will be an agreement now, because kosovo’s judiciary still needs support from the outside on corruption, organised crime and war crimes. that is why i am now coming to problems that we have with member states. those member states that support eulex do not second enough judges and prosecutors of a suitably high level. then there is the lack of recognition by five member states. this is an area where i wish that this report were binding and that they would have to recognise kosovo, because the current situation hinders the progress of kosovo and makes the people of kosovo think that they are second-class citizens. the future of kosovo is in the european union. it is a european country, and i hope that with our report here we will help the progress of kosovo towards the european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. serbia is not only a european country by cultural, historical and geographical standards, but it has also made enormous efforts to meet the eu criteria. the crisis in the union and the fear of further repressive demands on the kosovo issue, and the continued strong economic links with russia in the energy, steel and other sectors, have limited serbian enthusiasm for eu membership. we should not overlook that. the more important it is that brussels should be fairer to belgrade. the eu has thus far been the patron of the kosovo albanians, deliberately ignoring many of the legitimate serbian interests. the fact that the european community of values has remained silent on the desecration of serbian monasteries and other cultural heritage in kosovo is, in my view, simply a scandal. the eu should therefore abandon the illusion of a multiethnic kosovo and seriously consider whether the right of self-determination for the serbs in kosovo should also apply.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. each of us knows that in 2014 we also commemorate the fact that 100 years ago, world war i began, that we have the 75th anniversary of the beginning of world war ii. we also have the 25th anniversary of the fall of the iron curtain. this shows us that we were able to overcome the consequences of the second world war with the fall of the iron curtain and the accession to the european union of many states that had previously lived under dictatorships more easily than the consequences of the peace treaties of the first world war, because after the fall of the iron curtain there was a civil war in yugoslavia. nationalism, different religions and cultures, which were not taken into account, clashed, which was one cause of the first world war. we can only solve the nationalisms, the egoisms, the minority question by integrating into the european union. that is why what we are discussing here today is a very positive signal of progress in european unification: the start of accession negotiations with serbia, the support for the agreement on the normalization of relations between belgrade and pristina - two positive signals which we welcome. we must continue this dialogue to show that the perspective of these countries is in the european union and that only the european union can overcome the consequences of the second world war and the unresolved consequences of the first world war. let's move on.
i have to say, madam president, yes, it is sad when people in one of the richest regions of the world have to live on the streets, with, of course, social exclusion, disease and unemployment. the fight against homelessness is in principle a matter for the member states, and the union should also take action. the fight is proving to be increasingly difficult here in austria, not least because of the increasing immigration of poor people from south-eastern europe. in my home town of linz, the caritas hot-house faces a huge challenge: hundreds of newcomers from south-eastern europe, whole extended families, whole clans, have to be cared for there. first, there is not enough space, second, the so-called needy did not follow the house rules, treated the staff with disrespect, aggressively, and finally even physically attacked the staff. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. housing is an absolute basic need. of course, it is the member states who are responsible at national level - and above all the regional authorities, the local authorities - but it is good and right that the commission should now not only participate in this debate with a strategy, but also contribute actively. i would like to make three points which are particularly important to me. first of all, the criminalization and punishment of the homeless, which is now increasingly observed in so many member states, must be condemned in the strongest possible terms. furthermore, adequate, affordable and sustainable housing should be provided for all people living on the streets. the commission could also take the youth guarantee as a model for its procedures and voting. the third is the issue of prevention. the most important thing is to make sure that people don't end up homeless. so we need care facilities for those who lose their homes, for the most vulnerable in our society.
the commission has already done so. we have already discussed many of the ways in which these problems can be tackled. but i would also like to focus on one other point today, and that is access to health care. we know that homelessness is very often associated with illness, and we often don't know what caused it: is homelessness the cause of illness, or is illness the cause of homelessness? our european systems often make it difficult for people who are homeless to access health care today, whether it is because they have lost insurance coverage, whether it is because they have great anxiety about entering a hospital, a doctor's office, whether it is because of the not always very warm welcome in those medical facilities where homelessness is often seen as a nuisance, a nuisance in general. so what we really need to do in this strategy is to think about how the health care system is going to reach the homeless if the homeless are not going to get into the health care system.
i have to say, madam president, sleeping on the pavement or on a park bench, no electricity, no water, no heating life as a homeless person is undoubtedly hard! and many never find their way out of this life, because without a bank account it is notoriously difficult to find work and housing. but it is not just drug addicts, alcoholics and beggars who are homeless. in london, for example, even people with a good college degree and a job and no family problems can no longer afford to live in an apartment. why are rents going up eight times faster than wages? these are the dimensions of the working poor that we have in europe. we have, of course, a massive problem of poverty migration. roma from hungary, romania and slovakia are moving around the eu and overburdening social systems. the eu should therefore focus on tackling the economic crisis and tackling mass unemployment. work must pay, and a bank account should be available to everyone so that they can find a way out of homelessness.
i have to say, madam president, then i'll also be bringing you blue cards so you'll see that you're looking in my direction! the ppe has been accused of hypocrisy by the woman in the field. what kind of hypocrisy is it to ask for an item on the agenda on 'non-discrimination of sexual rights and reproductive health' and in reality want to campaign against the spanish government? isn't that hypocrisy? what kind of hypocrisy is it to say that poverty reduction in spain is the reason for abortions? instead of offering women help, they're offering them abortion! isn't that hypocrisy? what kind of hypocrisy is this, to want to have a debate here, to want to put the commission on the fast track, but in reality to want only to eradicate the double defeat in this scandalous estrela report? isn't that hypocrisy? it is at least as hypocritical to accuse the ppe of hypocrisy! i demand that the fundamental right to life be protected first! the fundamental right to life, which is worth protecting, is the most fundamental right! when you talk about fundamental rights, you first of all talk about the fundamental right to life of that being who cannot defend himself, the unborn citizen! this is a fundamental right! you should see this.
i have to say, madam president, mr romeva said: 'the pamphlets presented here ...' i don't care, you can bring 20 more pamphlets, that doesn't impress me. but i object to your equating your miserable pamphlet with the sovereign emblem of my country, which is constitutionally protected! this symbol of sovereignty is in front of you, it represents the national sovereignty of my country, and i object to your equating your filthy pamphlets with the flag of my country!
mr president, since the deadline for the amendments was closed, two events have happened in north mitrovica, in the north of kosovo, that we need to mention in an oral amendment. these were very regrettable incidents, especially last night’s assassination of a liberal serb councillor in north mitrovica. i shall therefore read out the oral amendment and ask you all to support it: ‘stresses, in this regard, that the failure to inaugurate a new mayor in north mitrovica and the subsequent call for new elections in this municipality must not hinder the continuation of the process and the full implementation of the 19 april agreement’. this is to be followed by ‘strongly condemns the murder of dimitrije janićijević, a municipal councillor in north mitrovica, and calls for the relevant authorities to start an investigation immediately and to bring the perpetrators to justice’.
in writing. − in addition to the three existing energy and climate goals of more energy efficiency, more renewable energy and less co2 emissions, industry must also be developed, because no one benefits from an industry-blind climate policy. the only way to unleash the economy is to give entrepreneurs freedom, and that is why i am very much in favour of a mandatory 20% industrial quota throughout the eu. in recent years we have seen that a european country has fared better in the crisis the more industry it has, because only efficient production leads to sustainable and lasting growth.
in writing. the industrial sector has been hit hard by the current crisis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of unemployment. this must also be in line with the europe 2020 strategy. i support the goal of a more sustainable, efficient and innovative industry.
in writing. − to remain a global player, it will be essential for the eu to develop industrial policies. the crisis has hit this sector hard in recent years. 3.8 million people lost their jobs in the industrial sector. yet industry is of central economic importance, accounting for one fifth of european exports and 80% of private r & d investment. the commission has also proposed that the community should be able to provide aid to the countries of central and eastern europe. the report notes that a european industrial policy primarily requires a skilled workforce, but on average only 7% of the low-skilled workforce has training. the opening of the labour market to the eastern eu countries may lead to an influx of cheap but unskilled labour. this in turn could do more harm than good to the industrial sector. that is why i abstained.
in writing. − one lesson from the economic crisis is that countries with a higher industrial share have fared better in the crisis. the key to this initiative is the revival of european industry, with the aim of achieving a sustainable and economically stable europe. the report also stresses the need for energy and resource efficiency to be the basis for industrial restructuring. the 509 amendments tabled show that reindustrialisation is a highly relevant issue. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction. the european parliament has thus presented a sustainable growth strategy based on the modern use of resources, secure jobs with adequate remuneration and low-carbon, environmentally friendly production. what particularly pleases me is that austria is mentioned twice as a positive example in the initiative: firstly because of its training guarantee, an example of a successful strategy to reduce school dropouts, and secondly because of its high innovation potential.
in writing. - industrial restructuring is particularly useful in times of crisis. europe must remain competitive and at the same time be sustainable in order to prevent further crises.
in writing. − producers in the french overseas departments are at a competitive disadvantage due to various factors of location: remoteness, insularity, small size, difficult topographical and climatic conditions and economic dependence on a few products, in particular the sugar cane-sugar-rum value chain. in order to compensate for these disadvantages, france should be able to apply a reduced rate of excise duty to 'traditional' rum produced in its overseas departments and sold in the french mainland. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - the present report on the amendment of the rules of procedure with regard to the extradition of members of the european parliament to the judicial authorities or the protection of their immunity represents, in my view, a deterioration in the rights of our members. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation in the community. the rights of the committee chairman are also too strong, which is why i voted against this amendment.
in writing. − in view of the fact that there is no sufficient scientific basis for the safety of the new maize varieties and, moreover, there is no sound evidence that there is a need for the authorisation of the new maize varieties, i am pleased that the european parliament is today opposing the authorisation of the new genetically modified maize in the eu. it is important that member states should continue to be able to decide for themselves what is grown on their territory. i therefore call on the governments of the member states to finally adopt the regulation which will expressly allow countries to prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified plants on their territory.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution. it is significant that the european commission wants to authorise genetically modified maize, the use of which has been approved by only six member states, and that changes to the conditions for authorisation, such as labelling, have not even been discussed with experts from the member states. the use of genetic engineering in agriculture is highly controversial, due to the potential risks to human health and its negative effects on the environment, for example in relation to bee mortality. in general, the effects of genetic engineering, particularly but also in connection with the combination of various pesticides and radioactive radiation, have not been sufficiently studied.
in writing. - the placing on the market and development of a genetically modified maize product resistant to certain lepidoptera is rejected. this is absolutely to be supported. the health effects that may result are not foreseeable, or even studied.
in writing. - it is sad to see that the fpö is creating panic at the expense of freedom of movement! it is clear that the eu does not oblige any country to give eu citizens access to social benefits if they have not paid into social systems beforehand. if some countries have more generous rules, it is not because of eu requirements but because of national rules. where there is abuse, it must be combated, and this is open to the member states at all times. the eu's single market is not just for businesses, but above all for citizens. freedom of movement and freedom of movement of persons are fundamental principles of the eu which must not be undermined!
in writing. - it is all too easy for freedom of movement to become a trojan horse. the free movement of persons must not be a free hand to immigrate to the welfare systems of wealthy eu countries. the uk, germany, the netherlands and austria need a way to expel eu nationals who are unfairly benefiting from their countries' social benefits. the social networks are particularly affected by the roma and sinti gypsies from romania and bulgaria who make pilgrimages to western europe to live off the aid they receive. the present resolution mocks those german municipalities which have already cried out for help because they cannot finance the additional financial burdens which have increased by leaps and bounds. i therefore reject this resolution, which ignores the realities and embellishes the situation.
in writing. − with the eu labour market opening to bulgaria and romania on 1 january 2014, experts fear a massive influx into the labour market and social systems of richer member states such as my home country austria. it is worrying that freedom of movement is increasingly being transformed into a right to social benefits in the host country, contrary to its original purpose, especially as a result of a very broad interpretation by the courts. the commission has also proposed that the principle of the country of origin be incorporated into social benefits in order to counteract this false incentive system: this means that the country of origin is to pay for basic security and similar non-contributory benefits. the motion for a resolution before us does not provide any effective solutions in this respect, which is why i voted against it.
in writing. - i am extremely concerned about the new arrangements for acquiring citizenship in malta, which will henceforth involve the direct and open sale of union citizenship and thereby undermine the idea of union citizenship. while rules on acquisition of citizenship are the responsibility of the member states, they are encouraged to design such rules in a way that is consistent with european values and the spirit and letter of eu law and practice. after all, every maltese passport holder automatically acquires citizenship of the union throughout europe, and thus benefits from rights that only eu citizens enjoy, such as the right to move and reside freely within the european union, or the right to vote and stand as a candidate in eu and local elections in all eu countries. in this context, i would like to make it clear that the austrian example of honorary citizenship, which has been wrongly promoted in recent times, is in no way comparable to the new maltese rules. in our country, this kind of exceptional citizenship is granted only on the basis of an extraordinary service to be performed or already performed in the special interest of the republic of austria. this requires a decision of the council of ministers! so under no circumstances can you just go shopping!
in writing. - the lax treatment of naturalisation and its consequences has been out of control for some time. some eu members are becoming the gateway to the eu: whether it's amnesties for millions of illegal immigrants or winning votes and improving romania's finances. the eu's free movement is increasingly becoming a windy business model. and as long as poor migrants have access to social welfare and criminals from all over the world with wealth of unknown origin can buy the eu passport with ease, this will probably not change. it is high time to close all the floodgates and put an end to the selling-out of citizenship to the rich and to the incentives for poverty migration. the present resolution goes far too far in this respect and is only suitable for giving the european commission new powers through the back door. i voted against it for these reasons.
in writing. the european union must not impose any unnecessary obstacles on belgrade. on the one hand, serbia has carried out remarkable reforms in recent years, and on the other hand, unlike the islamic-dominated turkey, serbia is part of europe both geographically and culturally. above all, the eu must show greater fairness towards belgrade. unfortunately, that has not been the case so far. the eu has been playing the patron saint of kosovo albanians and has deliberately ignored the legitimate interests of serbia. and that the self-styled community of values has remained silent on the desecration of serbian monasteries and other cultural assets in kosovo is simply a scandal. the european union must not allow any kind of juxtaposition of serbia's eu accession with belgrade's recognition of kosovo. this would amount to blackmailing serbia. instead, the eu should distance itself from the illusion of a multiethnic kosovo that does not work and seriously consider whether a secession of serb-populated kosovo would not be a better solution to ensure long-term stability. the report was very well balanced and was approved.
in writing. - corruption and organised crime are hindering the rule of law, democracy and economic development of serbia. although there is still much to be done, serbia has made considerable progress and has implemented reforms. serbia is culturally and historically part of europe, and i welcome the opening of accession talks.
in writing. - with regard to kosovo, the eu is facing the shattering of its unilateral kosovo policy. of course, the violence of serb extremists in northern kosovo during the autumn of 2013 is to be condemned, but it was not surprising. the violence and low voter turnout among kosovo serbs showed that the serb minority has no confidence in kosovo albanian institutions. but this is no wonder, because there are constant attacks on serbian monasteries and the desecration of serbian cemeteries, and the serbian minority, which is forced to live under albanian rule against its will, sees its future seriously threatened. the european union is therefore well advised to make a fundamental change in its policy on kosovo. instead of continuously extending the protective cloak to the kosovo albanians, brussels must finally take due account of the legitimate interests of serbia. and instead of adhering to the dogma of so-called multiethnic states, we must consider the division of kosovo along ethnic lines. the report was therefore rejected as being entirely one-sided.
in writing. − on 17 july 2009, iceland applied for eu membership, and on 27 july the accession negotiations began. iceland was badly hit by the financial crisis and the prospect of eu membership and the associated euro as a hard and, above all, stable currency was becoming increasingly popular among the population. the icelandic public is now more critical of eu membership. it will ultimately be up to the people to decide whether iceland joins the eu or not. the european parliament has already been given a mandate to vote on the proposal. i voted for the report because iceland is a part of europe and its accession to the eu would be desirable.
in writing. − after decades of civil war, which claimed some 2.5 million lives, south sudan gained its independence on 9 july 2011. however, the peaceful separation from the north has been overshadowed in recent months by fighting in the border areas, leading to the flight of tens of thousands. on 15 december 2013, hostilities broke out within the spla between supporters of the dinka president of south sudan, salva kiir mayardit, and the nuer vice president, riek machar, who was dismissed by mayardit on 23 july 2013. the government said it was a coup attempt by machar, which he denied. four former ministers have been arrested. the fighting in juba has killed about 500 people. the fighting, which has seen more than 63,000 people seek refuge in un camps, has spread across the country. i voted in favour of the resolution because europe and the eu have committed themselves, by signing the various agreements, to helping south sudan to restore peace and build a secure and stable democracy.
in writing. - i support the european parliament resolution on an eu strategy to combat homelessness. i would like to stress, however, that the criminalization of the homeless, as currently practised in some member states, is not to be welcomed! it must be remembered that homelessness is not a lifestyle that is voluntarily chosen. the increasing homelessness of young people in particular is an alarming sign that there is an urgent need to strengthen coordination and cooperation not only between member states but also within member states. it is regrettable that in most member states there are no binding records and statistics on this subject, and that is something that needs to be worked on!
in writing. − homelessness is a growing problem in our society. many of those who fall into homelessness are stigmatized, and the way out of it is becoming increasingly difficult. in particular, in those eu countries that have been hit hard by the crisis, homelessness is increasing at an unprecedented rate. the european union has a long history of supporting the right of asylum and the right to live in a country of asylum. i believe that the individual eu countries should focus on the local population, which is no less affected by the problem of homelessness. the european parliament has already said that it will not accept the amendments tabled by the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights. it could also be another new incentive to come to europe.
in writing. - it is sad and shameful that people in one of the richest regions of the world have to live on the streets. the most important of these are: social exclusion, illness, unemployment, etc. the fight against homelessness is in principle a matter for the member states. this struggle is proving increasingly difficult in austria, not least because of the increasing immigration of poor people from eastern europe: in my home town of linz, for example, the caritas heat works faces the challenge of caring for hundreds of homeless people from eastern europe. first of all, there's not enough room. secondly, the "needy" from the east may not follow house rules and treat the staff with disrespect or even aggressively and attack them. these are also consequences of unconditional freedom of movement. the commission should also include this aspect in its strategy against homelessness, which unfortunately has not been reflected in the present motion for a resolution. that is why i voted against the motion.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would also like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr bernhard rapkay, for putting the emphasis on citizenship in his report. and that's what it's all about. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we social democrats therefore want to improve the existing systems, not to distrust them. the conservatives are clearly seeking to reduce the scope for accepting public documents. but that should not be our goal. the principle of legal certainty requires that we work on our standards and bring ourselves closer together in the process. that is the idea of political union. it is therefore necessary to create a european terminology which, as far as possible, includes all the member states and their systems. the european union must therefore move away from a purely nationalist approach. on the one hand, we are protecting the fundamental right to marriage and the family, but on the other hand, we are making it unnecessarily difficult for citizens by requiring certification. for example, a french document is not automatically recognised in belgium without certification, even though it is in french. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. otherwise, he shall be exempt from the obligation to pay the costs. and this is clearly a european added value which we should all support!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not paper war this is the word used by citizens in europe when they have to go through the 15th round of acquiring and exchanging documents if they decide to carry out cross-border activities. paper war is the term for the costs of sending documents, notes, etc. back and forth. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i wish! we're going to take a first step, which is to take a circle out of this whole circle. it is not much more, but it is still a lot for citizens who have a lot of cross-border work to do or who unfortunately fall in love with someone who lives across the border and want to marry him. if we really want to achieve a european spirit, we must also make a start in this area. now, of course, it's clear that there are about 28 different perspectives on bureaucracy in this room. the kind that have a relatively quick, uncomplicated bureaucracy, the kind where it's almost an art form and it can take years to finally get a child's paternity acknowledged, for example. i hear a great deal about the great dangers that this proposal would entail. counterfeits would be much easier. ladies and gentlemen, there are fakes now. there will be afterwards. and if the bureaucracy is very good, it can ask questions and it can hedge against that. that's why the problem won't get worse. of course, the professional groups involved in this current political movement, in this great documentary revolution, are ultimately interested in keeping it that way. we must strike a balance here, and i think we have done well in this report, a balance between making it easier for citizens to move forward and at the same time ensuring the safety of citizens who can and want to rely on the validity of certain documents. last word: there has been a lot of lobbying because many people thought that, for example, same-sex marriage would then spread from one country where it is recognized to the whole of europe. ladies and gentlemen, this is a misunderstanding, this is simply not true. we must not let these conspiracy theories stop us from making life easier for our citizens! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you very much for your question, it gives me the opportunity to clarify. firstly, we are not deciding on european citizenship here, we are only deciding on whether someone is carrying out activities beyond a national border, whether it is marriage or the recognition of any birth certificate. you need documentation for an enormous number of files you put in your life. that is not european citizenship. you say many people are skeptical. i tell you, i know many young people who would be very happy to have european citizenship in addition to their own. the second was shortly for abuse. this proposal does not increase the risk of abuse of freedom of movement in europe.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr plenkovic, i have to say that i am very pleased with the results. i have received numerous complaints from doctors who have to fill out sick-label forms when treating patients. and when citizens from other countries come, it often leads to misunderstandings, to many different numbers. there's a lot of red tape. could you imagine standardising and simplifying these cash-in-hand transactions for eu nationals, so that it becomes less bureaucratic for citizens and doctors?
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 4 february, at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on the report by eva lichtenberger, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the 29th annual report on monitoring the application of eu law (2011) (com ((2012) 0714 - 2013/2119 ((ini)) (a7-0055/2014) and the report by sajjad karim, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the regulatory suitability of eu rules, subsidiarity and proportionality (a7-0056/2014).
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to go. i am now dealing with the implementation of community law for the fifth time in the form of this report and i can only repeat and emphasize that the implementation of what we decide here in lengthy procedures, discuss and then fix in council negotiations, should be of central importance to us. we shouldn't just ignore it. unfortunately, many people are simply satisfied when they see that i have been part of a beautiful law. whether this law is then applied and whether it is then also applied correctly is actually the question that must concern us in two respects: firstly, the appreciation and the need for european standards and secondly, we in the legislature also need a feedback loop to improve our legislative work. and what else can tell us about this than non-implementation or infringement procedures? in the last year - we have got statistics here - the number of infringement procedures initiated by the commission when member states fail to implement has continued to fall. there are now some 1770 procedures. there is also a hierarchy of laws that are implemented least well or not at all. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. how can the commission tell that there are massive deficits here? if there are complainants or if she herself is made aware of it or is made aware of it. the number of complaints i mentioned earlier is not all of them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. but we don't know how well or how badly the implementation control will work in the end. why not? - why not? there is a gigantic lack of transparency within the commission. there is a so-called pilot procedure in which the commission and the member state concerned deal with a case of non-implementation, but the complainant is not informed. we in parliament do not know which areas have the greatest implementation deficits. we have been working for five years to improve this situation and we are again calling on the commission to introduce a procedure, a novelty, so that this becomes a regulated procedure, so that the complainant, so that the parliamentarians have access to anonymised information. we don't want to overturn privacy, but we want to know how well we make laws here. this is a central point for me and i would like to stress it. the second point, mr karim, on better lawmaking, i would just like to make two brief comments. i think he is going a little too far on the question of subsidiarity control by member states. if we go as far as karim suggests, we will again have veto powers in the council, which will then block essential legislation for certain reasons, and often just to achieve something else. secondly, i think that there is too much overestimation of impact assessments. we have seen impact assessments ourselves where substantial pieces of information were not checked by the commission, but only those parts which justified the commission's position. but that is the wrong way to go, in my view!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not the report on 'better regulation' is actually a duty exercise for us. it is about making eu law better, easier to apply and more efficient. this time, however, it's about much more. the commission's communication on refit was adopted by our rapporteur, mr karim. refit regulatory fitness program , which sounds cool at first, but it's not necessarily. i am not saying that the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the aim is to abolish the rules which guarantee workers a fundamental right. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why we european social democrats in the committees have already tried to stop this project, but were voted down by a conservative majority. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. fundamental rights must be respected and must not be seen as a 'bureaucratic burden' and be undermined. it's about worker protection, it's about consumer protection, and it's about data protection. these fundamental rights must apply to everyone. it should make no difference whether they are workers in an undertaking with 50 or 500 employees, because article 31 (1) of the charter of fundamental rights states that every worker has the right to health, safety and decent working conditions. the same applies to information and consultation, i.e. article 27 of the charter. the report also attacks the social dialogue, that is to say article 155 of the treaty. the hairdressing agreement is blocked, even though the social partners have agreed to improve working conditions for hairdressers. this is not acceptable. i therefore invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to take the side of fundamental rights and to stand up for the citizens tomorrow when it comes to voting on the amendments. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. madam president, i am very much in favour of respect for fundamental rights at national and european level. and just as we are committed to ensuring that they are respected at national level, we are also committed to ensuring that the rights enshrined in the european charter of fundamental rights are respected.
i have to say, madam president, theoretically, as you know, we have the principle of subsidiarity, which is intended to prevent the union from declaring itself competent at all times and in all places. in the course of the last few years, however, we have seen a massive transfer of competence to brussels through various back doors. if we look at the united kingdom, for example, there is a lot of buzz about the application of eu law and the european convention on human rights. critics are right to say that the country has never accepted that decisions important to the social and political order are taken by international courts that are not accountable. and if the european court of justice has the last word in fundamental rights and the ecj has always acted as an instrument to give brussels more powers, then in my view this is also a form of machinery for transferring powers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet its obligations under the treaty. i think it is high time that we in the union finally made it clear that under the cloak of freedom of movement and solidarity not everything can be allowed!
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what is it? i would like to thank the members who took part in the debate. i think it is an important feedback, not only for us, but also for the commission and ultimately for the council in this context. - i'm not sure. i am aware of the arguments which the commission has been using for five years in response to our request. but nevertheless: we are committed to transparency - transparency towards the complainants, who play a very important role - and we are committed to a better ability of the european parliament to be able to critically look at any gaps or contradictions in its own legislation and then to be able to act better next time. i hope and know that this will be a subject for the next interinstitutional agreement, and i hope that we will finally take a step forward on this, because we need these two factors very urgently. infringement proceedings can be a practical tool for better legislation, and perhaps even better than costly impact assessments in parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have serious concerns about that. the independence of this institution is of course also of particular importance, although it is not guaranteed today. the complainants - to return to this - point out to us what we may have overlooked, what duplications there are or what reluctance exists in the member states, although they have been involved in the whole legislative process. i would also like to say that they are not only concerned with their own cause, but that their cause is important for all citizens who are confronted with certain abuses in individual member states or in the union. that's why they need transparency, and they deserve it. we really need to fix this next time. many speakers have finally dealt with the pre-legislative phase, whether it be the red card procedure or any impact assessments. but - and i think this is very important throughout the procedure - we should not forget that the stage after the conclusion of the procedure here in the house must be given the same importance when member states implement and apply these rights. we need to be able to look inwards here, because in the implementation the problems become apparent, which we may have overlooked or which may have been wrongly formulated in the sense of a compromise. i would like to conclude by asking for a better interinstitutional agreement on this matter.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to be able to say that the european parliament has been very active in this matter. the ttip free trade agreement, which the commission is negotiating with great vigour, would usher in a new phase of growth, create countless new jobs and substantially increase our prosperity. while i doubt that these predictions will ever come true, i agree with the finding that we are facing a historic decision. it is not so much a question of removing unjustified barriers to trade as it is a question of the primacy of democratically legitimized politics. in particular, the planned mechanism to protect investors' interests, isds, reduces the scope for action of parliaments and independent courts elected by citizens. it is therefore unacceptable that the negotiations are largely closed to the public. it must be in the european parliament's interest to ensure full transparency of the process!
rapporteur. - madam president, i did not really expect to receive such a massive number of e-mails in my mailbox over the last week. do you know how many there were? more than 40 000 saying ‘no to lunacek report’. my website was hacked as well. i do not know who it was. it might be a coincidence, or it might not be a coincidence. such resistance to a report that basically talks about the right of people to love and to live their lives without fear is something i did not expect, and that is why i would like to start my explanation and presentation of this report by addressing especially those of you here in the chamber who have this resistance against this report. i would like to ask you: would you want your daughter or your son, your brother or your sister, to be afraid to walk hand-in-hand with their loved ones in the street? would you want them to be afraid to tell their colleagues at the office on a monday morning who they went to the movies with on sunday night? or would you want any friend of yours to be afraid to tell you that he has fallen in love with a man or that she has fallen in love with a woman? i guess not. i guess you would tell those friends: ‘well please speak to me, why are you afraid?’ you know that is what this report is about. to make sure that lesbians and gays, bisexual and transgender people in this european union can live their lives free from fear and discrimination, accepted and respected in their private and public lives, as citizens of this, our common european union. this is not about special rights, which some are claiming in these e-mails i and many of you have been getting. no, colleagues, it is not about special rights, it is not about privileges, no way! this report does not call for special rights and i would like to challenge anyone in this chamber to mention just one right – just one! – cited in this report that would give a privilege to lgbt people. is there one right that other people who are discriminated against – roma, disabled people, or others – would not enjoy? the right to go to school without being bullied? the right not to be considered mentally ill? the right not to be fired from a job because of who you share your life with? the european union has strategies to combat discrimination against roma people, discrimination against people with disabilities. this parliament has already asked the commission ten times to present a roadmap against homophobia and discrimination against lgbt people. the commission has not done so yet. that is why the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs decided to go ahead and demand it, because we know the situation is grave. the fundamental rights agency of the european union made clear in a report involving a questionnaire that 93 000 lgbt people answered last year that 60% are afraid at times to walk hand-in-hand in the street. almost 50% are harassed or discriminated against and one in four has been physically attacked or threatened with violence in the previous five years. that is homophobia, and it must no longer be tolerated in europe. so many of us – lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and inter-sex people – have lived our lives in fear for too long. my report says that we must act on this. and it is not about telling member states or about breaching the competences of member states. we have made that very clear in paragraph 5. you can all read it: ‘this comprehensive policy must respect the competences of the european union, of its agencies, and of member states’. but we need to act on that. this report tells the commission – this commission and the next – and it tells us, in this year’s election campaign, that we have to work on fighting fear, on making sure that people who are harassed or attacked because they are lesbian or gay will go to the police, that they will have police officers there who understand what the problem is, and that they are not harassed again. and it should make sure that, for example, schools in member states share best practices with regard to talking about the fact that lgbt people and families exist on this continent and they should not be discriminated against anymore.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the directive is undoubtedly driving the further development of the digital single market. uniform rules and cross-border licensing will make it easier for consumers to buy music and movies online. this will give europeans a wider choice. the aim of this reform was also to protect and strengthen the rights of rights holders. some much-needed changes were made. in future, authors will thus receive their royalties more quickly than expected. the deadline was reduced from 12 to 9 months. the right of members to have a say in collecting societies and the obligation to provide information are also strengthened. i am also glad that the right of the rights holders to self-determination has been improved. young artists in particular benefit from having the right to use non-commercial licences.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we know that in the area of economic crime, investment fraud is still one of the most serious crimes. the ease with which market manipulation can be done is shown by the sheer number of stock market quotes and stock advisers. i think it is equally worrying that so-called financial optimists, who come into the house under the pretext of checking, for example, insurance companies for their savings potential, then promote their own products en masse. the phoenix leak and the destruction of money by the so-called göttinger group also highlight the failure of public oversight in fraudulent snowball schemes. considering that the new york attorney general recently stopped the premature sale of information to high-frequency traders by the reuters news agency, it becomes clear how difficult it is to crack down on all forms of market manipulation and illegal insider trading. so on the one hand we need clear rules, which must be fully controlled, and we must constantly improve them. the commission has also been asked to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and corruption.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. market abuse and manipulation have massively affected the lives of millions of people. tougher penalties in the future will ensure that financial fraudsters are held fully accountable for their misconduct. with the regulation and now the supplementary directive, we have created important legal instruments to close existing loopholes and to restore people's confidence in financial markets and the rule of law. this is an area where we need a common approach, where we need more europe, where we simply have to think beyond borders. without eu-wide regulation, financial fraudsters will move to those member states where there are no criminal penalties for market manipulation. this week we will also be debating other dossiers which are important components of the financial reform and where more europe is also needed. the achievement of a banking union should be pursued with determination, as should the rapid introduction of the financial transaction tax, without losing sight of the real objective, which is to stabilise the financial market. we need a broad framework for this. otherwise we cannot reach the destination. in the european parliament we have clearly recognised the weaknesses of the financial market and since the outbreak of the crisis we have initiated important projects. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. market manipulation is defined as unfair practices aimed at influencing the price setting in markets in order to obtain unjustified profits. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. they operate in those member states where particularly lax rules on market manipulation and insider dealing are in place. and that ultimately hurts the functioning of the market and ultimately every citizen. we therefore need harmonised minimum rules to ensure that this does not happen. firstly, market manipulation and insider trading must be considered criminal offences in all member states. secondly, this should also apply to manipulations of interest rates, currency, derivatives and similar financial products. finally, and thirdly, effective criminal sanctions should also be made public as an additional deterrent.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i also object to the fact that a point of order was not raised in advance, because it was precisely this vote that was referred to in the lunacek report. and it could be that by correcting and pointing out this translation error, a different vote result would have come out. i would point out that paragraph 4 (h) (ii) of the german text reads: 'this concerns the full mutual recognition of the validity of all civil status certificates.' the report was written in english. in english, it's called "recognition of the effects". the correct translation would be: "the recognition of the effect of all personal status surveys". but this is a substantial difference in substance, because it would involve interference with the subsidiarity of the member states, for example in the case of marriages and registered partnerships. i am convinced that if the members had known this beforehand, they would probably have voted differently on this point in this report, because the effect is quite different if it is erroneously translated as merely recognition of the validity and not as correctly as recognition of the effect of the personal status checks. (applause from the centre)
in writing. - the report by vital moreira on the inclusion of greenland in the implementation of the kimberley process certification scheme can be seen as positive, as it is intended to prevent the linking of greenland's future diamond trade with conflict diamonds. the kimberley process participants account for approximately 99,8% of the world's rough diamond production and, given the impending structural economic change in greenland, it is appropriate to include this overseas country and territory in the kimberley process and its certification system.
in writing. - the report by vital moreira on greenland's participation in the kimberley process certification scheme can be seen as positive, as it is intended to prevent any future link between greenland's diamond trade and conflict diamonds. the kimberley process participants account for approximately 99,8% of the world's rough diamond production and, given the impending structural economic change in greenland, it is appropriate to include this overseas country and territory in the kimberley process and its certification system.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the single euro payments area (sepa) and the additional transition period of six months introduced by the european commission at the beginning of the year, as a ‘safety measure’ for consumers and businesses in order to ensure minimal disruption. in my view sepa will have significant benefits for consumers, smes, banks and corporates. the economy will benefit from an efficient ‘payment chain’, payments can be made faster and cheaper and cross-border payments can be made more effectively too. at this moment, according to european commission statistics, within the single euro payments area ‘more than 500 million citizens, over 20 million businesses and european public authorities can make and receive payments in euros under the same basic conditions, rights and obligations, regardless of their location.’
in writing. - the report by werner kuhn on the torremolinos protocol, which has been presented, underlines that there is still room for improvement in the safety of fishing vessels and that there is a need for eu action. the report shows that 24 000 people still die in the fishing sector every year because of the continuing lack of safety measures. in this sense, the report can be regarded as quite positive.
in writing. - the report deals with the issue of monitoring the application of eu law and the rapporteur points out that the member states' actions should continue to be closely monitored. petitions are particularly highlighted as they often reflect breaches at eu level and should lead to infringement proceedings. it is regrettable that the 'eu pilot' project has no legal status and that more transparency is needed for the complainants.
in writing. - of course, there are always problems in dealing with the administrative apparatus, the health system, the tax authorities or the social security system. the training systems are often very different, as are social developments. however, this cannot be used as a pretext for requiring a member state to recognise the content of a document from another member state without any examination, or even to recognise family ties recognised in one country through the back door, even though there is no legal basis for this in the country in question. the present report could open the door wide to a split which would then lead to the ecj, which would then open wide. i am therefore opposed to this report.
in writing. - this resolution provides for the elimination of additional crossborder formalities throughout the eu. this will cover the areas of legalisation and apostille, copies of documents, certified translations and eu forms. the aim is to eliminate red tape and to strengthen mutual trust. i think, however, that it should be left to each member state to decide what formal claims it makes and on what grounds. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are applied in the member states. that is why i voted against this proposal.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. unnecessary bureaucratic hurdles are removed, saving citizens not only time but also a lot of money. it will facilitate cross-border activities and help to reduce red tape.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted. the amendments are adapted to technical developments and are intended to improve the safety of workers when handling dangerous chemicals and mixtures. laws must be brought up to date. the safety and health of pregnant workers at work must be improved.
in writing. - the report presented here is to be supported, since it is an adaptation to the united nations system of labelling and not a complete change. the amendments are purely technical in nature, but the directives should be reviewed as soon as possible in order to ensure an appropriate level of protection for workers when hazardous chemicals or mixtures are used.
in the case of the digital music market in europe, it is growing steadily. in 2012, 391 million songs were reportedly sold online in the eu. the proposal aims to make it easier for music providers on the internet to obtain pan-european licences for music. in the future, companies in the digital music market will no longer have to settle music rights with 28 individual countries. the aim is to improve the protection of artists' interests and to speed up the payment of royalties. copyright, of course, plays a major role in the digital economy. of course, it makes sense to simplify complex licensing systems. however, the whole matter also involves the us, and this is particularly important in the run-up to the negotiations on the proposed free trade agreement. and you have to be careful here. i cannot therefore agree with the report.
in writing. - the present resolution states that the introduction of criminal sanctions against market manipulation is an important and necessary innovation in the fight against market abuse. market manipulation refers to unfair practices aimed at influencing price determination in markets in order to obtain unjustified profits. manipulative undertakings exploit the differences in the internal market for their abusive behaviour by operating in those member states where there are particularly lax rules on market manipulation and insider dealing and light penalties for infringements. in the end, this is bad for the functioning of the market and thus for every citizen. i therefore believe that it is necessary to introduce regulations to ensure that such abuses cannot happen in the future. that is why i have agreed to this proposal.
in writing. - the directive is an important contribution to the regulation of financial markets and aims to harmonise the penalties for insider dealing and market manipulation. that is why i voted for it. the definition and penalties currently vary widely in the member states. penalties for insider dealing range from 30 days to 12 years, depending on the member state. the directive now stipulates that the maximum penalties for insider dealing and market manipulation must be at least four years. the maximum penalty for improper disclosure of inside information shall be at least two years.
in writing. - today’s vote on the market abuse report and regulation gives me the hope that we can still help our citizens by reinforcing the integrity of the eu’s financial markets, meaning that the trust of the investors should be reassured. we voted for tougher sanctions: a common set of criminal sanctions for insider dealing and market manipulation. the rules will cover a wider range of trading and financial instruments than in the past and they will apply to all members states.
in writing. - the report on the notification of energy infrastructure investment projects in relation to the euratom regulation points out the importance of accurate and regular information to the commission on energy infrastructure investment projects in the eu, so that it is able to fulfil its tasks in the energy sector. the rapporteur also points out, however, that it is essential to strengthen the regulations on data security and confidential information. however, it is still necessary to consider carefully whether points such as the reduction of the threshold for the notification of capacity in the field of onshore wind power plants are justified.
in writing. - the report on the future role of the court of auditors, presented today, points out that the court of auditors is the control body of the eu institutions and should be characterised by and be committed to the principles of independence, integrity, impartiality and professionalism. the appointment of members should therefore be very carefully carried out and researched, a point which the rapporteur underlines. the precise rules and criteria are designed to prevent inconsistencies and promote integrity. the report presented can therefore be regarded as quite positive.
in writing. - the better regulation report is designed to improve the european union's legal acts. the aim is to make them easier to apply and more effective. the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality should be better respected. the report also aims to reduce unnecessary bureaucracy, which is very welcome. finally, the 2003 interinstitutional agreement on better law-making will also be renewed, as it is no longer up to date following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty (2009). i have nevertheless voted against mr karim's report. the rapporteur is referring to the regulatory fitness programme (refit). the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. data protection and consumer protection are also affected. the commission has also been active in the field of social dialogue. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of a social partners' agreement on the health protection of hairdressers, in breach of article 155 tfeu. the socialist group has tabled several amendments designed to prevent this deterioration. unfortunately, they have been largely rejected by the conservative and liberal groups.
in writing. - the report deals with the improvement of legislation at european level. the rapporteur is particularly keen to simplify the names of the various pieces of legislation. this will benefit small and medium-sized enterprises in particular, in order to reduce their burden. the report is welcome, as the rapporteur takes stock of the progress already made, but also notes that there is still more to be done.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i also rejected the amendment and i think it is a real scandal that the epp has agreed to it. mrs lunacek is the co-author of this scandalous text. it was therefore just as much to be rejected as the original text. i object to the claim that by not giving gay people special rights, you are discriminating against gay people. this is disgraceful. it's wrong and it's infamous! so i don't think all gay people are happy with this approach. i know, for example, of letters of protest against the lunacek report from homosexual organisations in austria, which say: 'we do not want to be put on the same level as an indigenous tribe in the brazilian jungle that deserves protection'. these are not people who need special rights, they just want to be treated as normal and equal. that's why they don't need ms. lunacek's special privileges. and therefore it was wrong to approve this report, even in its amended form, because it still contains all the toxic things that mrs lunacek had packed into her original report.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not in conformity with the treaty. but it must also be clear that each eu member state must be able to decide on family law matters! whether same-sex marriage or adoption by homosexual couples is to be recognised in a state with all its legal effects must remain a matter for the member states!
in writing. - this so-called lunacek report intends to introduce same-sex 'marriages' through the back door in all eu member states. if mrs lunacek is to demand that the commission should have the power to monitor and control the 'exchange of best practice', then countries which do not have a marriage between persons of the same sex should be forced to recognise marriages concluded in another member state. the member states are to be deprived of their competence to legislate on marriage. this is a clear breach of the principle of subsidiarity. the commission is also proposing that any person who expresses objective and professional concerns about the existence of homosexuality should be stigmatised as homophobic. the gender ideology does not tolerate any questioning, which clearly violates the right to freedom of expression. in my opinion, it is a personal attack on people to call them "fundamentalist" or "right-wing" when they are free to express their opinions - unless they are based on gender ideology. the overall concept also includes the demand for 'the provision of pride parades' and family reunification for so-called lgbti people. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat discrimination against women, and for the eu to take action to combat discrimination against women. but europe does not need an even bigger propaganda campaign by the international homosexual lobby, but it needs to step up measures to protect indigenous families, because it is our own children who will ensure our future, not homosexuals.
in writing. - the so-called lunacek report is not about fighting homophobia as the title claims, but rather about interfering with national marriage, family and asylum laws: the report aims to introduce same-sex 'marriages' through the back door. if it is the view of mrs lunacek and the homosexual lobby behind her, then countries which do not have a legal system for same-sex marriages should be forced to recognise marriages entered into in another member state. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of the child are respected. the commission also proposes to amend the law on asylum in the member states by introducing rights related to sexual orientation and gender identity. europe does not need the lunacek report, but better protection and support for indigenous families!
in writing. - family law must remain a matter for the member states. the european parliament's committee on women's rights has also called for the inclusion of women in the eu's workforce. this includes, on the one hand, the requirement for mutual recognition of the effect of personal status surveys, which is contrary to the provisions of the lisbon treaty (subsidiarity principle), and, on the other hand, a wealth of requirements for privileged non-discrimination against lgbti persons, in particular in paragraph 4 (c) (i), (e) (iv), (f) (i), (i) (i), (j) (i). i also draw attention to the fact that there is a serious translation error. in paragraph 4 (h) (ii), the word 'effects' is translated as 'validity' instead of 'effects' in the german version. the recognition of the effect of civil status surveys would oblige the member states to recognise, for example, marriage between homosexual couples or the adoption of children by homosexual couples. that would be an interference with the member states' exclusive competence. the ppe delegation in the european parliament therefore votes in favour of protection against discrimination and against centralisation of family law.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i firmly believe that gay and bisexual people, as well as transgender people, deserve to be treated equally and with respect. they should be able to live freely and without fear of discrimination, just like everyone else. and that is exactly what this report calls for: equality for all lgbti people and increased anti-discrimination measures. contrary to the right-wing narrative, this report does not interfere with the competences of the member states, nor does it call for 'special rights' for lgbti people. the eu's gender equality strategy is called for, as it already exists in the areas of roma integration, discrimination on grounds of disability and gender equality.
in writing. - the treaty on the functioning of the european union clearly requires the eu to combat all forms of discrimination. in the light of the shocking survey results, it is particularly important to stop discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation. the implementation of measures in this area is long overdue, as many member states are calling for. the report must therefore be approved in order to ensure that the urgently needed measures are implemented.
in writing. - the report deals with protection against dumped imports from non-eu countries and the rapporteur advocates that the product in question should not be subject to provisional duties when it is on its way to the union. the rapporteur also mentions the fact that economic retaliation against the eu may also be possible in certain cases. in view of these facts, careful consideration and coordination is required, as the interests of the eu must be safeguarded.
in writing. - in 2012, it was noted that some member states appear to be experiencing difficulties, particularly in the management of court proceedings and the organisation of justice. the aim is to ensure common standards. however, the problem of judicial independence arises in this context. the conditions in this field still vary widely in some member states. the court of justice has also adopted a number of decisions on the basis of the case-law of the court of justice of the european communities. i see a number of unresolved issues here, not least in relation to migration and social rights. i therefore reject this report.
in the case of the european parliament, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the european parliament's involvement in the legislative process. the success of this procedure is to be welcomed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the ‘smart grids’ report, as i think europe has to promote energy sustainability and renewables. in my opinion we have to look into the future and follow the development of our technology in all areas that influence our lives, and energy is one of them. we need to progress and support smart energy systems because, in my view, they will bring long-term, significant benefits to the european regions. smart energy systems will help our citizens to make savings, as they offer secure and affordable energy production and supply. in terms of economic, social and environmental advantages, it has been shown by european commission statistics that, with the targets set within the 2020 energy programmes and strategy, around 2.8 million jobs will be created in this sector across europe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the products it produces. they are the most widely established social agricultural model in the eu and provide the livelihood for millions of farming families. the aim is to increase competitiveness in relation to intensive farming models and thus improve coexistence. the new eu agricultural policy must include specific measures to address these specific needs. the aim is to increase the marketing of quality rural products and to develop direct sales. in addition, all forms of cooperation between small farms, such as cooperatives or producer organizations, must be given special support. the migration of the population from rural to urban areas is one of the major problems. the necessary structures and the environment that form the basis of economic activity are thus lost. we must counter this with a counter-offensive. i therefore call for the use of the relevant eu funds to expand infrastructure, education, healthcare and broadband internet. we need an ambitious and integrated strategy for rural areas.
in writing. - i support this report because we need to strengthen smaller firms and make them more competitive. they are the most widely established social agricultural model in the eu and provide the livelihood for millions of farming families. the aim is to increase competitiveness in relation to intensive farming models and thus improve coexistence. in the report, the eu parliament adopts a comprehensive set of measures to strengthen small farms, taking into account their specific needs.
in writing. - the report presented points out that large farms have been given preferential treatment in the common agricultural policy, solely because of their size and high yields. the rapporteur gives small farms a number of options, as they can expand, diversify, close down or even pass on to the next generation. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to provide the member states with the information they need to enable them to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the environment.
in writing. - the report's aim of preventing parcel shipping from becoming a bottleneck in the supply chain of online commerce, which is expected to grow above average in the coming years, can be seen as generally positive. the advancement of the digital single market and online commerce can be beneficial for consumers, as they benefit from lower prices and greater choice. however, it also increases the risk of falling victim to fraud or dishonest business practices. the growth of online commerce must be accompanied by strong consumer protection measures. the report notes that a majority of consumers have concerns about the right to return, fear of damaged goods or non-delivery, and not only problems related to parcel delivery. it should also be borne in mind that the working conditions of delivery service providers are already among the worst. while efficiency gains in parcel delivery are welcome, they should not lead to lower wages, more work or worse working conditions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. - it is important to adapt the laws, especially in the light of the developments in this sector in recent years. globalisation also makes it necessary to standardise and simplify the parcel delivery market. crossborder trade in particular would benefit, but internal markets would also be boosted.
in writing. - today the european parliament is voting on an action plan to promote the steel industry in europe. the question is how to help this sector in the face of rising energy, wage and unit costs and increasing competition from outside europe. the steel industry is the basis for the automobile and construction industries, which are so important in europe. moreover, steel is produced in europe with the highest and best technological, labour and environmental standards in the world. our windmills and houses aren't made of paper. that is why we must keep these jobs in europe and not drive them out by exaggerated policies.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. it is therefore necessary, especially in times of global crisis, to make europe fit for further industrialization. the action plan for a competitive and sustainable steel industry in europe proposed by the european commission is therefore an important step towards tackling the crisis. this reindustrialisation must not be carried out on the backs of the workers. social partnership and employee participation must be recognised as key and active participation must be enabled. the social impact of industrial restructuring must be cushioned by the full use of the european social fund and the european globalisation adjustment fund and all fundamental workers' rights must be safeguarded. the environment is also to be better protected by reducing emissions. i have agreed to this report because it gives workers' rights a vital role and thereby supports the working population. a well-functioning industry can help europe in crisis if workers' rights are at the forefront and there is strong social protection.
in the light of the above, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the preservation of the steel industry is of strategic importance in ensuring economic growth and safeguarding jobs. for these reasons, it is of great importance to ensure a sustainable steel industry.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not my question is directed to small and mediumsized enterprises. at present, only about 13% of european enterprises export to third countries. do you think that these regulations now offer an opportunity for small and mediumsized enterprises to export more, but on the other hand to import more, because of course imports are also an essential basis for competitiveness in this world?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. unfair trading practices by companies from third countries have a devastating impact on european industry. unfair competition puts local businesses at risk and, as a result, many jobs. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers were not able to provide the necessary information to the commission to enable it to assess the likelihood of continuation or recurrence of dumping. the commission must therefore be able to react quickly and efficiently to dumping and subsidised imports. the investigations must be speeded up and there must be deterrent and effective sanctions. trade protection in open markets is vital, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. we must not forget that social and environmental issues must also be included and integrated into trade protection!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. almost 15 years ago, i co-founded the intergroup tobin tax. it was a long way to february 2013 and your push to actually introduce a financial transaction tax. now i read and quote a senior official from your house who is mentioned as one of the architects of the financial transaction tax, with the quote: "the lobbying pressure from the financial industry is already enormous". commissioner, your colleague mr barnier was very kind to give a detailed list of the lobbyists who met him when and what was discussed in connection with the structural reform of the banks. this is going in the direction of the legislative footprint. i now ask you to do the same for your department in relation to the ftt so that we know what the official who wished to remain anonymous in the article in the standard of 22 january meant. at least be fair enough to disclose the pressure you will be subjected to if you do not implement what you actually intend!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i know this financial transaction tax from my time in development policy, in civil society organizations in the 1980s and 1990s. "it takes a long time to do a good job", they say. but now it's really high time to do it. this parliament has already voted by a large majority that a large number of financial products should be taxed and that the greatest possible number of financial market players should be taxed here too. it is time to put this into practice, but not with the salamis tactic that is being used now, a salamis tactic by the financial lobby that is now saying: special interests here, exceptions here, exceptions there, disagreement between governments. the 11 who said they would do it are not in agreement in their own coalitions. the austrian government should also make its position clearer. the austrian finance minister, spindelegger, must also make it clearer that the eleven are finally implementing what they have agreed to. because - and this is also very clear - with the financial transaction tax we are killing two birds with one stone. the speculators themselves must pay, so much so that they can no longer speculate and take big risks, and that social measures can be financed. we need that in this day and age! the financial transaction tax has to come now. no more financial lobbying and sabotage tactics!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commissioner said in his contribution to the debate that the credibility of the european union before the citizens is at stake. yes, that's what it's all about! what has the european union done to solve the financial crisis? no separate banking system as yet, no real rules for the banking sector, no real liability rules, not even a financial transaction tax to fund the whole system! the original proposal was for all member states - and i agree with mr hökmark: if not all of them are involved, it makes no sense in the first place, we will only be creating competitive advantages for the city of london - now there are only 11 more. then it was called: all financial products. now i've heard a whole list of financial products that should no longer be in the mix. then it was called, "it will be introduced in 2014". and now mr schäuble is officially saying that it is not going to happen any time soon. so, off we go before the european elections! we have to admit that we have failed. we failed with the financial transaction tax because the banks are in charge on this continent. it is not the elected representatives who are in charge, as you have so eloquently admitted today, but the lobbyists who manage to dictate the rules of politics on this continent and in this european union. we don't dictate the rules to the banking sector, but the banking sector tells us what we can and cannot do. this is a disgrace! you'll lose credibility with the public!
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to ask you, mrs ford, how you see the situation of small and mediumsized enterprises and, above all, of energy-intensive industry. it is, of course, an essential part of the value chain that europe's energy-intensive industry has a chance, and that the most sustainable and forward-looking industry in the world can get a foothold in europe again, and that we can raise the rate of reindustrialisation to 20%. do you see any chance that's possible with the new regulations?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner oettinger, it is tragic enough that where the eu should be letting its fingers out, it is regulating the electrical conductivity of honey, in the case of normal ladders, ten pages definition of what a pizza napolitana is. but where so many citizens expect clear rules, you're hiding the keyword fracking. as a lake constance coach, it is tragic to see how much the european commission has again succumbed to lobbying pressure, has given in to certain british interests and cannot bring itself to make clear guidelines as to what environmental impact assessments would be necessary if this were to happen. this not only undermines trust in politics, but also potentially undermines your holiday in a place where there is no snow. i would very much like you, from bregenz to baden-württemberg, to take up the subject of fracking again and to do what other commissioners have already done, namely to really disclose who has lobbied and who is lobbying in this area, who you meet and what you talk about. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied in the member states.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by thanking our rapporteur, mrs delvaux, for her excellent work. what we have agreed with itre and envi should really be the basis for our future thinking. i would also like to say that i am very much committed to fighting climate change. i have to criticize the commission a little. i would have expected the european commission to have more specifications for 2030 now. i think that's a little too unambitious. we should work a little harder towards the energy transition here. let's take a look at the largest industrial country in europe: germany. germany has much stricter targets. they want to have minus 40 percent co2 by 2020 and minus 55 percent by 2030. is germany now successful or not successful? it's very successful! and so it is with many countries that set themselves strict targets, and those are the ones that are successful in the long run in competition. it's the same as having kids. what school do you send your children to? a school that requires something or one that doesn't require anything? so it's important if we want to be successful in the long run that we try to set really strict standards here. it is only in the long term that we can expect to be able to compete internationally. it is also important that if the community sets the objectives and gives subsidiarity to the member states - as i said, the german energy-saving law is so much in the criticism, but this is a german problem, this is not a european problem - we should not mix things up here, because the objectives were right. so when individual countries make mistakes in the implementation of the directive, we must address this very clearly and bluntly. but overall, we must be ambitious if we are to succeed in the long term. the report we have voted on should therefore be the basis for this. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. even a vorarlberg resident is sometimes able to look over the mountain, over tyrol. mr president, when you were speaking, i was thinking of the whole debate on catalysts which has been going on for a number of decades. the car industry said at the time: 'this is our ruin, we cannot afford this under any circumstances! and then it didn't come first in germany, but in california. since then, it has not been an issue, but we have become more efficient and have learned a lot from it and also made a profit from it. do you see any parallels with what you're saying?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i think the car industry is a good example, because which country has the most successful car industry in europe or in the world? it's germany. and why are german cars selling so well? because they are less efficient, so to speak, or because they are super efficient in international comparison? and if you look at the american car industry, which has set itself 30% lower targets, these are the ones that are in trouble. what kind of cars are the chinese buying? the american, the italian, the french or the german? i would ask you to look at the statistics.
thank you very much, and thank you also for your serious, competent and independent work in relation to the troika enquiry.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 5 february, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the joint debate on the recommendation by george sabin cutaş, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the draft council decision on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation on cooperation in the application of their competition laws (12418/2012 - c7-0146/2013 - 2012/0127(nle)) (a7-0060/2014) and the request for an oral reply to the commission on eu agreements on cooperation in the application of competition policy the way forward by george sabin cutaş, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (o000022/2014 - b7-0105/2014) (2013/2921(p)).
the debate was closed by the tabling of a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 5 february, at 12 noon.
the next item is the joint debate on the recommendation by david martin, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the draft council decision authorising member states to ratify the arms trade treaty in the interest of the european union (12178/2013 - c7-0233/2013 - 2013/0225(nle)) (a7-0041/2014), and the commission statement on the arms trade treaty (2014/2534(rsp)).
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the report by mr georges bach, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 261/2004 on a common system of compensation and assistance to passengers in the event of denied boarding and of cancellation or long delay of flights and regulation (ec) no 2027/97 on air carrier liability in respect of the carriage of passengers and their baggage by air (com ((01302013) c7-0066/2013 2013/0072 (cod)) (a7-0020/2014).
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i am really nervous, mr president. i was listening to you with enthusiasm, and suddenly you said: now that elections are coming, there is a danger that we will become too consumer-friendly. is this the european people's party's line that you basically do what is good for the economy and then when elections come suddenly you take care of the people who are supposed to vote for you? mr koch, i hope i have misunderstood you.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have taken advantage of the last period of time before this decision to ask passengers on my flights and at the numerous stops at the boarding gates whether they have ever made a claim for compensation and whether they have received compensation. the result was quite depressing. first, people don't make demands at all because they think it's not possible anyway. and secondly, those who have sought compensation have very often had to take the legal path, with great difficulty, even if a court has already ruled in their favour. this is an unacceptable situation! i was therefore particularly disappointed when commissioner kallas put forward a proposal which made things even worse. he was only responding to the airline's call. the passengers themselves were a transportation industry disaster and nothing more! i found it particularly disturbing that the force majeure issue was construed in such a way that a downed screw was treated in the same way as an ash crisis, where no passenger would file a claim anyway, because of course it is clear that an airline really has no control over the weather. i have to say, the transport committee, but especially the other committee, they really did manage to improve the rights. that is why i am asking for support for the proposals that are still to come. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. this is primarily discrimination against someone whether male or female, but women are more affected who has to change planes and because the change times are often not feasible who wants to take the hand luggage on the plane. i have to say, in the last few years, my luggage has been left unattended over 17 times! that's what's troubling me. that is why many people are hesitant to leave their luggage behind, not knowing for sure whether they will ever see it again.
the commission has already done so. the new regulations in the interests of the millions of air passengers we have every day at europe's airports show how important the european parliament is. i am glad that we have been able to put forward a number of very good solutions and will decide tomorrow. the commission's proposal is also substantially improved by the solutions it contains. it is the rapporteur's merit that these good solutions have been found. what has been achieved in essence? i would like to highlight just a few points: firstly, that it has been possible to ensure that payments for delays are improved, made easier, and above all increased; that there will no longer be a no-show policy in hinkunft, i.e. that a ticket will be valid even if the first section could not be flown. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and there will be no more of these harassments of hand luggage, but advance information for the air passenger. i also think it is particularly important that information points should be set up in central areas of airports and not in the back of the airport, as is still very often the case at present. it is also important that complaints are dealt with swiftly. overall, i am pleased that we have been able to achieve these solutions in the interests of the passengers.
the commission has already done so. i would like to congratulate you, mr rapporteur. it's a good report, and it's been hard work. for from the beginning it was the usual: the commission has put forward a proposal which could not have been more industry-friendly, which was not a proposal for passengers but a proposal for the profits of airlines. but it turned out to be a good thing. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. it is better to have concrete measures now, because how often have we had passengers stranded somewhere, wandering around the airport and finding no one to turn to? that has improved with this proposal. and it also cracked a system of airlines that basically provided that if you booked multiple flights and one was canceled, you couldn't take the others. there's no reason why if i'm flying somewhere and i have a second flight that i don't take, i have to pay for it. that's not the way it works, and that's been changed. it is good that the european parliament has changed the commission's proposal in such a way that it is in the interests of consumers, and ultimately in the interests of voters. it is good that the european elections are taking place, because some people who usually think only of industry may be thinking of the people of europe.
the commission has already done so. i too welcome the many amendments and the bach report itself, and i would like to stress only two points today. one is the possibility that in the future it will be easier for people with disabilities to fly, to move around in airports, and, above all, to exercise their rights if they are not transported, if they are delayed, if they are cancelled. but what i think is also very important is that in the future there will be contact persons at airports and better, more precise information. we have seen in the past - and not just in the context of the ash cloud - that it is particularly difficult for passengers who fly, for whom the environment at the airport itself is already stressful, that it is particularly difficult for older passengers who do not necessarily have access to the internet to get accurate information, to be informed of their legal situation, to see where they can stay. here the template is making a real improvement. i really hope that it will be implemented in this context.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
in writing. the days of air passengers being taken for granted by low-cost airlines are clearly over. the example of the ryanair riot in london and the toulouse protest against a stopover marathon are examples of this. in order to prevent such an escalation, it is all the more important that passenger rights are strengthened and that there are rules for the case of a fixed seat on the plane. some airlines respond to complaints by ignoring or delaying complaints. or an attempt is made to avoid a payment obligation by invoking exceptional circumstances, even though there is a purely technical defect. the fact that passengers from low-cost airlines are stuck for days at remote regional airports because they are not offered alternatives for cancelled flights is said to be a thing of the past with the strengthening of passenger rights. the revised regulations will hopefully provide more clarity. in any case, improved complaint procedures and enforcement measures are also welcome. the insolvency protection is still unresolved. after all, each year thousands of individual travellers are stranded abroad because their airline has gone bankrupt. the airlines have so far successfully prevented the introduction of a liability insurance scheme, which has long been compulsory for package travel. the eu must also take action here.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr claude moraes, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of seasonal work (com (2010) 0379 c7-0180/2010 2010/0210 (cod)) (a7-0428/2013).
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i would like to ask you, mrs mathieu, what effect this directive is having on small and mediumsized enterprises. we have 25 million businesses in europe and of course we are concerned about employment, that is to say, we are concerned about creating well-paid jobs. what will be the impact of this directive on small and mediumsized enterprises?
the commission has already done so. i am convinced that with this saisonniers directive we will achieve a balance between sensible european uniform rules and appropriate measures to combat abuse. the quota system, the time limits, the social regulations - i am convinced of this - play a decisive role in this. what we can achieve in addition with this directive is that there should be no displacement of local labour by cheap labour from third countries. the aim is to further improve the employment rate in the individual member states. the directive also gives sufficient leeway to employers to employ seasonal workers for between nine and twelve months. i also think it is a good thing that a renewal procedure is being introduced which makes it possible to regulate continuing employment in the best possible way or to regulate reemployment for workers in the best possible way. it is also possible to employ workers on a permanent basis, to have them work continuously if good work is done, but it is also possible to look for staff if the work cannot be done. in sum, i think it is a very positive regulation which can only be supported!
i have to say, madam president, first of all, madam president, i should like to thank you for not letting me speak and then giving the floor. but i have to go over the procedure again before i do. i'm sitting right here behind the reporter. i 'll make you a deal . it was clear to us that the rapporteur had asked for the floor first and then turned on the light. i therefore disagree with you in principle when you say that you have already opened the vote. you have so many cameras in this house, so many ways to check this, you're sure to see what's true. i would ask you to take action in that regard. i am sitting directly behind the rapporteur. he asked to speak first. if you have a problem turning right, then that may be your political problem. but this is an important procedural issue, and i am quite unsuspecting because i do not share his political views on this situation. but i do not think it is a good thing that you are chairing this house, when you also remember the conflicts that you have had with your own group in the past.
in writing. - the report states that undocumented migrants are in a legal limbo: they have been arrested and identified by immigration authorities; the court of justice has held that the principle of equal treatment for men and women in the labour market is not a fundamental principle of the treaty and that it is not necessary to define the conditions under which the right to equal treatment for men and women is to be guaranteed. naturally, the signing of a lease or the enrollment in courses requires the presentation of a valid identity document or proof of residence. however, if the return decision already exists, it is better to implement it quickly. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of border controls, which would be effective in the event of a conflict between the member states. instead, other solutions should be sought to help those affected by modern forms of slavery and more action should be taken against trafficking.
in writing. - the report on a directive on the residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of seasonal work aims to enable non-eu nationals to pursue seasonal work in the eu through visa facilitation and extended residence for a certain period of time. not only is this report a boon in times of economic crisis, when millions of europeans are unemployed, as in spain or greece, and are surviving on seasonal work. the directive does not provide for a single national directive on the protection of workers from risks related to exposure to carcinogens. i have voted against this motion because i consider this report and its contents to be irresponsible.
in writing. - this resolution proposes to simplify and speed up the admission and residence of seasonal workers by means of a common eu-wide system. i believe that it should be left to national governments to decide which sectors are to be considered as seasonal and whether licences are to be granted for several seasons. i voted against because the record level of unemployment in europe calls for urgent measures, but not for a bill that would further increase competition in the european labour market and create an additional migratory corridor.
in writing. - in order to protect the rights and obligations of both seasonal workers and their employers from possible abuse and to harmonise the rules across the eu, the report should be endorsed. this report simplifies the principle of seasonal work and at the same time establishes uniform rules which make it possible to detect and sanction abuse more effectively. the introduction of minimum standards in all areas of seasonal work and the targeted support of women are also important needs which this proposal covers.
in writing. - a major challenge in policy is to adapt provisions to the requirements of the times. if over time it becomes clear that provisions are outdated, no longer applied or hardly applied, this is a sign that change/reform is needed. that is why this report is to be approved.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a regulation on the conservation of fishery resources. with the support of the european union, new fishing areas can be developed and then fished sustainably. the report is therefore to be approved.
in writing. - this report aims to raise the standard of living, particularly in education, of the citizens and residents of greenland. the right to education is one of the fundamental rights of the european union and therefore applies equally to all citizens. the report is therefore to be welcomed.
in writing. - the european union and its member states are more and more exposed to climate change. we have recently noticed that the level of extreme weather events has significantly increased, with more frequent heat waves, forest fires and droughts during summer periods and heavier precipitation and flooding during the cold season. the consequences of these events are translated into very high costs for our citizens, who are usually not properly insured, and at a macroeconomic level member states will have to fight against significant economic losses and public health problems. in order to avoid this and to decrease the risks, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - the report presented represents very welcome approaches to consumer protection in the european union and can therefore be welcomed. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and for the commission to be able to take a more active role in the fight against fraud. caution should be exercised if focused investigations prove to be necessary to avoid the unnecessary collection of personal and private consumer data, which raises data protection issues.
in writing. - this recommendation deals with the subject of future trade in conventional arms subject to international standards. the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of taxation of the income of the employed. this is definitely a worthy goal.
in writing. - the commission estimates that 740 000 women and children die each year as a result of the illegal arms trade. the international trade in conventional arms is to be regulated by the arms trade treaty. there are still no eu-wide figures to show how many unregistered weapons were used in violent crime. even the best regulation of the legal arms trade cannot prevent terrorists, violent criminals and others from obtaining arms illegally. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the arms industry is not left behind. i cannot therefore support this resolution.
in the case of the united states, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the arms industry is not subject to the same restrictions as the united states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. to counter this threat with meaningful measures, the eu will promote both anti-dumping and anti-subsidy regulations, which will be expressed in improving the effectiveness of anti-dumping instruments, by reducing the risk of retaliation from third countries, and by improving transparency and predictability in cases of dumping. i believe that only a targeted fight against dumping of goods from third countries can have a lasting success in the eu and that this is also in line with european market policy, so i have agreed to this request.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the fact that the united kingdom has not yet taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. unfair competition puts local businesses at risk and, as a result, many jobs. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers were not able to provide the necessary information to the commission to enable it to assess the likelihood of continuation or recurrence of dumping. the commission must therefore be able to react quickly and efficiently to dumping and subsidised imports. the investigations must be speeded up and there must be deterrent and effective sanctions. trade protection in open markets is vital, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. we must not forget that social and environmental issues must also be included and integrated into trade protection! i voted in favour of the report because it is a step in the right direction.
in writing. - the motion for a resolution before us deals with cooperation in the enforcement of competition policy and deals mainly with cooperation between the eu and the swiss confederation. the commission has already taken important steps, but the rapporteur believes that the swiss competition commission should continue to fight cartels vigorously.
in writing. - this report proposes amendments to the commission's proposals concerning the legal requirements for lifts and their safety. in fact, it is a welcome step to create standards that will have an impact on the safety of elevators. however, i do not see in this report a clear distinction between centralised regulation, as we have seen many times before, particularly as this project is being carried out under the 'new legislative framework'. i am in favour of certain safety measures, but the report is too much concerned with the negative points mentioned, so i abstained.
in writing. - some airlines respond to complaints with ignoring or delaying tactics. or an attempt is made to avoid a payment obligation by invoking exceptional circumstances, even though there is a purely technical defect. the revised regulations will hopefully provide more clarity. in any case, improved complaint procedures and enforcement measures are also welcome. the insolvency protection is still unresolved. after all, each year thousands of individual air travellers are stranded abroad because their airline has gone bankrupt. the eu must also take action here.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, commissioner, in the past weeks we have seen outrageous, shocking examples of violence: death squads are kidnapping and torturing protesters. we categorically reject all violence by the security forces, by the titushki and also by some, few, extremists among the protesters. we call on all sides to refrain from any kind of violence. it is time now to seek compromise at the negotiating table. let us be honest: what started as the orange revolution unfortunately failed. this uprising must not fail again. therefore, we have to call for a common way forward. the worst-case scenario in ukraine would be for the country to split and be plunged into unrest and domestic violence or even civil war. i welcome very much the involvement by the international community and especially the commitment of baroness ashton and commissioner füle, who work as a team – and must work as a team. of course, we would like to see the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy more often in this house. let us be honest: it would be simplistic to say that ukraine is in a tug-of-war situation between russia and the eu. we will not engage in any childish or financial competition, and certainly not in a bidding war, with russia over ukraine, which is a sovereign state and has to find its own path. however, we cannot stand by idle while hundreds of thousands in kiev are demonstrating, under threat of violence, for democracy, human rights and the rule of law. it is not a european task to liberate ukraine, but nor is it russia’s right to colonise ukraine. ukraine is a sovereign country: it must decide its path for itself. yes, we are keeping a european long-term perspective, but let us not make promises we cannot keep. yes, we need to emphasise that perspective. we have to assist ukraine to find its way, and therefore we encourage a compromise between the president and the opposition leaders, with the help of the eu, as mr klitschko has also recently demanded. maybe a technocratic government or a government of national unity and a constitutional review – possibly returning to the 2004 constitution – can bring a solution and can maintain the territorial integrity of the country. it can be good in times of crisis to have a strong president, but i must say that president yanukovych – with all his powers – has not united the country, but rather has split the country. therefore, i think it would be wise, if the people want, to change the constitution. on sanctions: yes, sanctions have to stay on the table, but now, for the moment, it is time for discussion and time to find a political solution. the last point i want to mention is this: some people say ‘let us talk with russia’. yes, let us talk with russia, but russia must recognise the sovereignty of ukraine, as we do. russia must recognise the territorial integrity of the country, as we do. russia must accept the democratic will of the citizens of ukraine, as we do. then we can talk with russia.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the situation in ukraine, in my view, is a definitive dispelling of the myth that the prospect of eu membership must necessarily be accompanied by prosperity and peace, or by the growth of peace. during his time in office, yanukovych is known to have unabashedly shifted power to the presidency while pretending to put ukraine on a pro-european course. of course, a quick restoration of the 2004 constitution and subsequent new elections would be a good way out, as long as it does not lead to a kind of bidding competition with russia and we do not overlook the fact that the ukrainian oligarchs have the bulk of the deputies in their pockets. and we would do well not to underestimate putin's influence, after he has emphasized ukraine's close proximity to russia and has exerted massive pressure. it is likely that a victory of the pro-european opposition against yanukovych will then be interpreted as a defeat for putin. we must prevent ukraine from sinking into chaos and anarchy!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ukraine is in a state of upheaval and is threatening to drift into political chaos. the imperative of the hour is de-escalation. on the one hand, the use of excessive police force against demonstrators must be condemned, and that is beyond dispute. on the other hand, the recent riots have shown that the opposition is not only made up of peaceful friends of the west, but also of violent agitators. we must not forget that the east of ukraine is traditionally oriented towards russia. i am extremely doubtful whether the eu is helping to calm the situation by intervening unilaterally. on the contrary, the sole portrayal of moscow as an enemy will certainly harden the fronts and, at worst, create a permanent source of unrest at the eu's gates, destabilising the entire region. i therefore lack an overall union strategy for the former soviet republics. it's not just about ukraine. sending money alone will not be enough.
i have to say, madam president, 'defence matters': under this motto, it was decided to send a task force to stabilise the central african republic. so the so-called culture of restraint is being relaxed. and with a force of 600 men, the duration of the operation is to be six months. the mission: to secure the capital and create conditions that will allow humanitarian aid to be delivered. but what is an exit strategy? what if the job can't be done in six months, as i fear? the eu force will then be spared the feared expansion of the mission? an analysis by the eu institute for security strategy sees the mission as "not a guarantee of success". and the soldiers who are sent there may soon face bigger problems than they have in previous military operations. europe must take note that these military operations can only be emergency measures firefighting operations when the house is already on fire. but an overall preventive strategy for africa is a bit different!
i have to say, madam president, while religious conflicts are frequently mentioned, tribal strife is all too often the background to the ongoing fighting in central africa. the attacks by members of the christian anti-balaka militias, which they perpetrated despite the calls for peace made by their leaders, illustrate this. the french military mission seems understandably overwhelmed by the true extent of the anarchy. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether the council will take a decision on the matter. if the 1,600 troops on the french military mission can barely hold even half the capital, the few hundred european troops would probably do nothing. perhaps the union should really stay out of this conflict. the central african republic is a country which has been the subject of a number of serious human rights violations. the eu and its member states should not waste resources in this way!
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, three years after the arab spring, on behalf of my political group, the verts/ale group, i have to express my deepest concern about the gravity of the current situation. conservative estimates report that 1 400 egyptians have died as a result of political violence since the military coup in july. in other words, that is seven egyptian citizens killed every day. the vast majority of these men and women have died under the brutal repression of the security forces simply for having sought to exercise their basic freedoms of assembly and expression. the brutal crackdown on the muslim brotherhood has been followed by a crackdown on civil society, human rights defenders and media. do not get me wrong: the unacceptable terrorist attacks before the military coup and the violence by the radical branches of the brotherhood are not – and must not be considered – an excuse for this repression. i would like to refer in particular to the situation of women. they continue to be in a particularly vulnerable situation in the current political and social transition. that is why i think the european union should strongly defend women’s rights. the egyptian interim authorities must combat all forms of gender-based violence, including marital rape and sexual violence against women participating in protests and demonstrations. it is high time for the european union to say, in a clear and unified manner, that the current trend towards the consolidation of an authoritarian security regime in egypt is unacceptable. in this regard, i find that the latest statement by lady ashton on the constitutional referendum – i am sorry to say this – smacks of the eu’s past failed policy from the pre-arab spring era. normalisation must not be the name of the game. we call on lady ashton and on the council, mr venizelos, to call a spade a spade. there is no democratic transition in egypt: there is a nasty security regime and our policy needs to adapt to this hard fact. there can be no business as usual as long as this downward spiral continues.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i would like to ask mr david what he thinks of the fact that we have now, for example, in tunisia, a new constitution, which we are actually commenting very positively on. do you think that the tunisian constitution could also play a role for egypt, because it is setting standards that are of particular importance for the whole of the maghreb?
i have to say, madam president, i think we should consider what concrete measures we can take in the coming days and weeks. one consideration is: what european union programmes can we offer our friends in egypt? this goes from education to many other fields. i think that starting an active programme here, getting in touch with civil society in an intensive way, is a good challenge. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
i have to say, madam president, the summit has shown one thing, and this has been demonstrated in the past weeks and months. the european union's policy against russia has failed miserably. you tried to play ukraine against russia, it went wrong. we have been holding armenia in the palm of our hand, making all sorts of promises, but nothing concrete. today they are members of the trade union. we had the armenian parliamentarians here today. we asked them the same questions that are being discussed here: what pressure was exerted? they said there was no pressure at all. we have had concrete offers! the european union has never made us a concrete offer. they've got us on the table in half an hour. the european union has not been able to do this for years. and the same problem exists in the ukraine. i mean, if you have always been a strong european union, why are you not showing the strong european union here? why are you turning a tymoshenko case into a state crisis? so in the end the leadership in ukraine had to come to a simple conclusion: what are we really negotiating with this union if we are facing state bankruptcy and are not able to finance the next budget? then we'll go where we can get the money. and russia put the 15 billion on the table within hours. see, that's the difference! the european union has therefore failed in this policy of constantly playing countries against russia. we must therefore come to a new basis with russia and finally see russia as a partner and not an adversary! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i was expecting your question, mr lambsdorff. i quote you myself. you yourself have spoken of the colossal failure of eu policy towards russia. i agree with you. only, if i know in advance that no one is willing to put the money on the table of the house, why do i try to play whole countries against russia and incite them? why do i accuse the russians of meddling in countries while at the same time members of this house and even more prominent politicians in maidan square are trying to stir up the crowds there? if i know i can't afford it, i won't do what they're doing to russia. it is therefore more sensible to see what can be done and then try to look for a partner in russia, not an opponent!
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to ask mr hökmark the following question: the energy charter and the wto negotiations have shown that a good relationship can be very interesting and profitable for both sides. what do you think about the price differences in the energy sector between russia, ukraine and europe? can this be a successful partnership in the future?
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, i would like to thank you for your reply. it is time to put the european union's strengths to the test. they just talk to each other. it's about negotiating with each other and creating a win-win situation. this is particularly necessary today, especially in relation to russia. we have seen that we do not really achieve much internationally with sanctions, since the poor are always the first to be hit, but that good economic, political and sporting relations are always beneficial for both sides. that is why i believe that relations with russia and iran are of particular importance to us and that sanctions are actually strengthening a regime that is bent on confrontation. we europeans should actually lead by positive example and not focus on sanctions but on speaking.
member of the commission. - madam president, today is international day against female genital mutilation (fgm). it is an opportunity to remind the world that the european union condemns this abhorrent crime. it is our legal and human obligation to protect women and girls, both within and outside the european union, from the risks of mutilation. i welcome this initiative by the european parliament to hold a debate on the subject. female genital mutilation is a brutal manifestation of gender inequality and a violation of human rights. on several occasions, this parliament has called on the commission to act ambitiously. the commission and the european union as a whole are committed to a strengthened policy response to combat all forms of violence against women within the union territory and in our external relations. this is demonstrated in the commission’s action plan implementing the stockholm programme, the women’s charter and the commission’s strategy for equality between women and men. the commission is working to improve knowledge and data collection and to prevent violence. this is being achieved through awareness raising and exchanges of good practice and by providing funding to governments, ngos and networks active in this field. the commission’s most recent sign of commitment was the adoption on 25 november 2013 of its communication on eliminating female genital mutilation. fgm is also a form of child abuse. it is estimated that currently 500 000 women and girls in the european union alone may have suffered from this harmful practice. this parliament calls for a specific strategy and an action plan on violence against women. i would like to emphasise that all the commission initiatives and measures are mutually complementary and that they already constitute a solid and comprehensive framework for concrete action, bringing tangible results and making full use of eu competences to support the member states in eliminating all forms of violence against women. fgm is a very specific form of violence: it reflects a deep-rooted social norm; it is often practised in the belief that it is beneficial for the girl; and it is an intimate issue and still, in many case, a taboo subject. it is crucial to take into account its complexities. that is why the commission adopted its action plan on fgm, following parliament’s resolution in 2012. let me now address the question of european union legislative action. we have made significant progress in adopting concrete legislative proposals in the field of criminal and civil justice to support women against violence. this includes: the directive on trafficking in human beings; the directive against sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography; the directive on the european protection order applicable in criminal matters, complemented by a regulation applicable in civil matters; and the directive on the rights of crime victims. this legislation emphasises the need for specific and appropriate protection for victims of gender-based violence. we have a comprehensive legal framework at european level to protect women against all forms of violence. this framework needs to be effectively implemented by member states at national level. the commission is assisting them in this respect and will monitor effective implementation. in addition, as i mentioned earlier, there is a series of non-legislative measures: awareness-raising, exchanges of good practice and funding. those measures already contribute to supporting member states in preventing the violence. as regards external relations policy, i reiterate that human rights, democracy and the rule of law are inherent in our analysis when it comes to assessing whether – and what type of – budget support is appropriate in a given country. women’s and girls’ rights are, of course, part of this. the european union is also taking its first steps towards developing and applying a human-rights-based approach in development cooperation. civil society organisations are recognised as fully-fledged actors and partners for development. when it comes to fgm in particular, the european union has, for many years, been participating actively in international cooperation initiatives to promote the elimination of fgm. the union systematically raises the issue of fgm in its dialogues with african, caribbean and pacific countries and underlines the need for african states to ensure that the practice is effectively prohibited. the european union supports capacity-building for government officials and advocacy and awareness-raising for all sectors of society, and it is preparing a regional campaign on fgm, which will be carried out by its delegations in third countries in 2014. the european union also funds projects. from 2006 to 2012, 17 projects addressing fgm in 18 countries benefited from eu funding of approximately eur 8 million. for example, an innovative eu and unicef project has contributed to changing attitudes towards fgm in egypt, eritrea, ethiopia, senegal and sudan. additionally, through the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr), the eu has supported several important projects run by human rights ngos in this area.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. in 2004, the international day of zero tolerance to female genital mutilation was established. much has been done since then, but still far too little! more than 140 million women and girls worldwide are affected by this brutal practice of female genital mutilation. there are many platforms such as in my home country of austria stopfgm.net that are doing everything possible to educate, support and ultimately stop this human rights abusive and in many cases deadly ritual. many countries are doing a lot and a lot of people are very committed to this issue. i think that as long as this practice of mutilation is still in place, it is all too little. i think that we can be much more successful here with a unified strategy - at least in the european union - and hopefully stop this ritual, and that we must also speak with one voice and vehemently towards third countries. there can be zero acceptance here! i think that the commission should be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the debate on the future of the european union. and in closing, i ask ourselves, what kind of world are we living in, if it is acceptable to abuse girls and women? i would like to make a point. the council is not present on this very important subject!
i have to say, madam president, the mass immigration from outside europe has of course also brought with it problems such as honour killings and genital mutilation. although genital mutilation has been considered a violation of human rights for more than 20 years, little progress has been made in the countries where it is predominantly practiced. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. it is also clear that many migrant women are circumcised during a visit to their home countries. but until now, we cannot bring perpetrators to justice if the crime was committed in a country where genital mutilation is not a crime. it is a shame that, although the number of victims in europe is estimated at 500 000, there have been only a handful of criminal proceedings in this context. this must be changed urgently.
in writing. according to a study by the european institute for gender justice, more than 500 000 girls and women across europe are believed to have been victims of brutal genital mutilation, with the hidden figure being much higher. the spread of female circumcision in europe is a consequence of mass immigration, the majority coming from asia and africa. despite existing prohibitions, prosecutions often fail or go unpunished. the problem must be raised in society because this repugnant practice is often taboo. in particular, doctors and other health professionals should be made aware and report suspected cases. if we want to effectively combat this practice of degrading women, we must also confront the fact that genital mutilation is practiced in islamic culture: although the koran does not explicitly call for female circumcision, it is widespread in many islamic countries. in europe too, the higher the proportion of muslim migrants, such as in britain or france, the more frequent the incidence of genital mutilation. this is the reality which is unfortunately not even mentioned in the motion for a resolution before us! we must not tolerate female circumcision in europe under the guise of tolerance and religious freedom! these are serious injuries that have serious physical and emotional consequences for the victims and often result in death from infections!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the debate on inland waterway transport is characterized by two elements: on the one hand, we expect much higher growth rates because we still believe that this is a more environmentally friendly transport. on the other hand, it is said that it would be beneficial to shift goods from road to inland waterway transport, primarily to meet an environmental aspect, but also to relieve the road. the only problem we have now is a very small one: access to money is one thing. the question for me is first and foremost: what is the money used for? you talked about raising bridges or deepening rivers. i see - and this is particularly true of the danube - a very large deficit, which is that goods do not reach the ports or the river because there is not enough transport links between roads, railways and the river. that is the main shortcoming. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there must be a concept here that goes much further. so first of all, we have to preserve the natural spaces along the rivers, which is an end in itself. but it also has relevance for local tourism, i must say. and we have a threat - and i want to ask you again very clearly - which, in my view, has been far too little taken into account: there was a european research project involving scientists from germany, italy, switzerland and france, which examined, among other things, how climate change in the alps and glacier retreat are affecting the waterways of the two major navigable rivers in europe - the rhine and the danube. this research - this was a european project - found that as the glaciers disappeared, so did a storage surface that kept the water depths more or less harmonious or uniform. if the glaciers are gone as storage, we'll have a lot more floodwaters and we'll have a lot more low-water flows in these two rivers. what does that mean for us? there is a european research report - which was presented here by my colleague, mrs toia, from italy - and the results of which are still being ignored. should we not go down the road of relying on river-adapted vessels that are less sensitive to high and low water, rather than relying on ocean-going giants or giant container towers? if we are to promote and preserve these waterways at all, with less navigability in the rivers, then we must look more closely at this. i ask you, have you done it, or will you do it?
the commission has already done so. we have just decided to set up nine core network corridors in europe in an attempt to optimally link the major economic areas and thus make a significant contribution to ensuring that the european union will be able to compete with the other major economic areas in the future. this is a crucial turning point. we know that these corridors will be particularly effective if the nodes, the connecting terminals, the interfaces between the individual corridors are also equipped with the necessary infrastructure and with the necessary logistics. the second is that we will undoubtedly have to provide the most appropriate means of transport for each corridor. and the third is that the supply systems from the small and mediumsized enterprises to the corridors, to the hubs, must also be functional. we know that large investment projects are planned, particularly in the railway sector, but also in the road sector. but we have noted in the debate - and this is the critical remark - that there is too little investment in the shipping and inland waterway sectors. the transport by ship is a great economic opportunity. for ecological reasons, it would very often be the optimal means of transport. i see something positive in the naiades targeting. inland waterway transport should be developed. this would be a great opportunity, for example, to develop the danube region and to strengthen its economy. naiades aims to be a driving force for inland navigation. this is the target position. the question is, how can we actually put in place an implementation strategy so effective that all the effects that we want to see in naiades actually come to fruition?
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the message is very clear from my political group. first of all, we want a solution, but not the solution that the council proposed, which is not acceptable to us. secondly, we want a quick decision on the mandate of the council. if the council is taking things seriously, then it should act quickly to give a mandate for negotiations. if one looks back to the time when the european council decided we wanted a banking union, and all the months that have passed until now, it is not our responsibility – it is not our fault – that we do not yet have the banking union. it is the fault of the council, because they are either being lazy or they do not want a solution. what is the real problem? the real problem for us is the following: the council does not like the fact that the real european institutions – parliament and the commission – are getting more and more influence and more power in european issues, which is strange because they are european issues. we are seeing more and more examples where the council – the ministers – are saying no, of course, we agree on the substance, but we the ministers want to do it. this means that we have to explain to our citizens, to the audience up here, that these decisions are very often not efficient, because to come to an agreement in the council – although there are only 28 members – is much more difficult than to come to an agreement here in this parliament when we have clear votes and good cooperation. proposals by the council are not efficient and are therefore rejected. the council chose a legal basis which may be correct, but was ultimately a political decision, because a different legal basis giving the community method and a bigger role to the commission and parliament would be correct as well. so why did they choose intergovernmental cooperation as the legal basis? it was because they want to keep their national influence. but the banking system is no longer a national banking system. it is a european banking system, and therefore we need a european solution and not a sum of national solutions. secondly, one should also explain to our citizens that the banking union is not something for the banks. the banking union is something for citizens – citizens who are afraid that they may lose their deposits, citizens who are afraid they will not get credit or who have problems when a bank fails. therefore, we should also explain that the expression banking union is perhaps not the right one, and that this is a project for the citizens, and not for the banking sector. why is it important to have a strong european solution? well, i can see – if i am reading the financial times correctly – how, for example in britain, dear colleague callanan, they are already trying to circumvent some of the rules we have decided, such as on bonus solutions. new speculation is taking place and it is being supported by higher bonuses in a different form, which legally may more or less be correct, but whose content, and the purpose of our rules, have been circumvented by the banks. i fully agree with what our colleague ms wortmann-kool said. it is now time for a solution which does not put the burden on the taxpayers, but on the banks themselves. as i said, the mechanism is not a good mechanism. coming to a decision is a long process. therefore, we have to do something about that mechanism. we were very happy with the commission ultimately deciding whether the resolution of a bank was necessary. it would be good to go back to that solution or, at least, to find a better solution than we have now. the solution now is a complicated process – much too complicated. i have compared it with a situation in which a fire breaks out and one then has to ask the city council if one can do something. president schulz said that if you go to the emergency room you do not want to have to ask the administrative council of the hospital to say what should be done; you want a doctor directly and a doctor to decide directly. something has to be done on this issue very decisively. secondly, the timing. ten years is too long to set up the fund when this, in any case, may not be not enough. some would argue that if you reduce the time to, say, five years, which would be reasonable, then some of the banks in weaker countries would have to pay too much. that would be an additional burden to the banks. so at least let us have a backstop, and a viable backstop. then the fund can go to the capital market with guarantees at its back to catch up with the necessity of what has to be done. these are the two major points we have to demand from the council. finally, i want to thank the negotiating team. i have full confidence in the negotiation team because i see the unity and strong position of that negotiating team – and i would say to ms goulard and mr verhofstadt that if they are not in agreement with having a strong negotiating team, then they should be. however, the view of our political group is that the negotiating team must have a clear position. no solution is better than a bad solution. we are not ready to accept any solution just because we have to have a solution quickly, because if we have a bad solution it will be hard to get a better solution afterwards. that, therefore, is what we are saying as a social and democratic group. again, we would ask the council to give a quick mandate. mr president, i would like you to write to the council. approach the council, and do not wait until 17 or 18 february; do it next week. at the beginning of next week you can have a mandate to negotiate. once again, our position is very clear. we want a solution, but we will not accept – and do not expect – a bad solution because, for us, having no solution is, at the end of the day, better than having a bad solution.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would just like to say to mr kelly that there is already a motion to put this on the agenda for the next part-session because there are also heavy snowfalls and floods in other regions, including austria and italy. we have therefore asked for this matter to be placed on the agenda of the next partsession of parliament. i think your group will agree.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's air transport system is not affected by the crisis. for more than 26 million passengers who take off and land in austria alone each year, there will be more and faster compensation and simplified complaint procedures for delays and cancellations. passengers who are delayed for more than three hours have the same rights as passengers whose flight has been cancelled. this means that you will receive compensation of up to 300 euros for flights up to 3 500 km, and up to 600 euros for long-haul flights. the handbag harassment of some low-cost airlines has also come to an end. the maximum size and weight of the total hand baggage allowance per passenger will now be specified. the number of pieces of luggage may no longer be limited. the burdensome complaint procedures often prevent passengers from exercising their rights. we therefore now require airlines to set up information and assistance points at air terminals.
in writing. - a focus on co2 reduction alone, without considering other objectives, would lead to a renaissance of nuclear power in some countries. this would be a step backwards for european climate policy! the expansion of renewable energy and energy saving are inseparable parts of european and austrian climate policy!
in the long term, the eu's energy strategy is designed to achieve three objectives simultaneously: the eu wants to tackle climate change, reduce the eu's external vulnerability due to its high dependence on fossil fuels, and promote growth and jobs through a competitive energy supply. looking at the eu's overall energy mix, fossil fuels continue to account for the largest shares of the total: oil (36.9%), gas (24%) and coal (17.8%). nuclear energy accounts for 14%, and renewable energy for 7.1%. the import dependence is already very high for crude oil at 84% and for natural gas at 61%. i voted against the report because i believe that the individual member states should take greater care to ensure that energy is supplied autonomously.
in writing. - the eu's 2030 climate targets are essentially just a rigid call for percentage progress. there is a lack of new ideas for implementation. the 2020 climate targets were only defined a few years ago. the result is vacuum cleaner regulations and light bulb hiccups, because the energy industry cannot and could not manage this on its own. the commission is also planning ahead for decades, and this on the basis of questionable, i.e. outdated, data, as the german institute for economic research (diw) clearly shows. but regardless, the mere setting of percentage targets will lead to a problem: the savings achieved so far were still feasible without leading to brutal conflicts with energy and industrial policy. climate policy in germany, a pioneer country in the 2020 climate targets, has already led to a significant increase in energy prices. they are the biggest obstacle to real economic growth in that country for years. at the same time, the eu is planning to re-industrialise europe to increase jobs and competitiveness. a look at the history books would reveal that cheap energy has always been a clear necessity for this. the eu is moving in the opposite direction with all its might. in short, without a well-considered alignment with energy and industrial policy, climate objectives will either fail or cause significant damage to the other two: competitiveness and jobs in the eu would suffer. i have therefore rejected this report.
in writing. - i call for an end to the blockade of the negotiations on a bank resolution mechanism and a resolution fund. if a bad bank has to be wound up to prevent the whole eu from getting worse, then we need a european decision-making mechanism. there must be no national vetoes which member states can use to get their way again. the blockade by some member states puts the entire planned banking union at risk. i am convinced that, with sufficient political will, a good compromise can be found on the basis of community law and the internal market powers of article 114 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the commission and parliament are working together on this. the banking union is designed to make european banks more stable and to prevent taxpayers' money from being used to bail out banks. this objective must not be defeated by national egos. the decision-making mechanism proposed by the member states is absurdly complicated, totally inefficient and is only intended to conceal the fact that some member states are more concerned with their power than with solutions for the good of the community.
in the future, if the shareholders and creditors of distressed banks are to be called upon to help them, this is a step in the right direction. however, the 8% limit for which they are to bear losses is too low. and with the new winding-up regulations, the socialization of losses continues through the back door. and banks can still underestimate balance sheet risk in the most adventurous ways. apart from the still-missing separation from highly speculative investment banking. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. the rules must therefore be rejected.
in writing. - an effective system of settlement ensures that the costs to the taxpayer are kept to a minimum. the postponement of the final vote was agreed.
in writing. - in the case of meat and meat products in particular, it is of central importance for the consumer to know the country of origin of a foodstuff, particularly in relation to all the decisive points in the life of an animal: place of birth, place of rearing and place of slaughter. these particulars should therefore appear on the labelling of the food. this information also helps consumers to have a better idea of animal welfare and animal husbandry standards when making their purchasing decisions. these particulars should also apply to minced meat and meat offal. as a proxy for the food industry, the commission still refuses to impose such requirements. in the light of the numerous food scandals of recent years, it is necessary to provide for binding information on the place of rearing and slaughter for all animal species (porcine, poultry, sheep and goat meat), both raw and processed meat. the present motion for a resolution addresses these demands, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. - for all the lofty ideals and goals of environmental protection and public health, it must not be overlooked that the real environmental abusers are the united states and china, who are not economically disadvantaged by their disregard for nature. the first thing they are asked to do is to change their environmental policy. the eu is called upon to act in the interests of its own economy and employment and to adapt its environmental policy to global economic competition.
in the case of the ukraine, the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the situation in the country is worsening. the eu wants to act as a mediator in the face of the violence between the opposition and the government, which has caused deaths and injuries on both sides. but this report clearly wants to side with the protesters and take an active part in the most volatile situation in domestic politics, just to get the proposed association agreement through, which leaves many questions open and completely ignores much of the problems this agreement poses for the eu. as i believe that the eu must not be further involved in this conflict and as i am generally opposed to the eu's active involvement in the maidan protests, i voted against this motion.
in the case of the former soviet union, the situation is not so bad. the imperative of the hour is de-escalation. on the one hand, the use of excessive police force against demonstrators must be condemned, and that is beyond dispute. on the other hand, the recent riots have shown that the opposition is not only made up of peaceful friends of the west, but also of violent agitators. we must not forget that the east of ukraine is traditionally oriented towards russia. i am extremely doubtful whether the eu is helping to calm the situation by intervening unilaterally. on the contrary, to present moscow as the only enemy image will certainly harden the fronts and, at worst, create a permanent source of unrest at the gates of the eu, destabilizing the entire region. i therefore lack an overall union strategy for the former soviet republics. i therefore voted against this motion for a resolution.
in the light of the recent events in egypt, the european union has decided to extend its cooperation with the arab spring to include the countries of the middle east and the former soviet union. the internal political situation in particular is more than worrying, as the present government is in a battle with the opposition forces of the so-called muslim brotherhood. this gives terrorist and criminal organisations alike the opportunity to operate at the eu's doorstep. it is thus also a gateway to the eu for such activities. the eu's role as a mediator of stability and security, for example in electoral processes, is crucial here. that is why i voted in that way.
in writing. - relations between the russian federation and the eu have been further strained by recent events, such as the maidan demonstrations in ukraine or the forthcoming olympic games in sochi and their political direction by the host. the eu must certainly be more decisive in its trade policy decisions towards russia and conclude a comprehensive and legally binding agreement with the russian government on both economic and political levels. however, i think it is crucial to accept the internal political situation of the country as such and not interfere in civil society issues, among other things, as it significantly strains relations between countries. that is why i could not agree to the proposal.
in the case of bosnia, the situation has not improved in the 15 years since the end of the war: high unemployment, which has been reflected in recent days in protests by the bosnian population against the government, corruption and the dayton agreement, which has not brought lasting peace to the country. the eu is helping the bosnian government to combat poverty and corruption, and this is welcome, but it is ignoring the issue of ethnicity, which i believe must be included in any prospective accession. furthermore, visa liberalisation does not contribute to solving the asylum problem in the eu, but only exacerbates it. i voted against this motion for the reasons i have just given.
in writing. - the motion for a resolution tabled by doris pack deals with the 2013 progress report on bosnia and herzegovina and considers that clear progress is already being made, but that there is still room for action. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union. in this sense the motion for a resolution can be regarded as quite critical, since the author expresses her reservations clearly.
in the case of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the enlargement of the eu to the south-east of europe is not delayed. but the country is in a situation which, from the name dispute with greece to the unresolved issue of the albanian minority, is certainly one of the most complicated in the balkans. furthermore, the country is plagued by corruption and criminal activities. the eu can help the macedonian government to contain the factors mentioned, but i do not see any basis, either in the domestic political situation or from a european point of view, for opening accession talks or for accession in the near future. that's why i couldn't agree to this.
in writing. - the motion for a resolution tabled by mr richard howitt deals with the 2013 progress report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and considers that clear progress is already being made, but that there is still room for action. the eu's role in the fight against climate change is to ensure that the world's population is not displaced by climate change. in this sense the motion for a resolution can be regarded as quite critical, since the author expresses his legitimate reservations clearly.
in the case of the newly independent republic of montenegro, the accession of serbia should be a priority in the south-east european area. however, there is still a lot to be done in various areas, such as legislation, the fight against corruption and poverty, if the country is to reach the maturity needed for accession. the eu can make a decisive contribution to economic growth, socioeconomic problems and the fight against corruption. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. i have therefore incorporated these considerations into my voting behaviour.
in writing. - the report shows that montenegro has made very good progress in the last year in establishing a democratic nation state and is clearly trying to meet the requirements of eu legislation. unfortunately, corruption and organized crime are still too strong in the country. gender equality and domestic violence against women and children are also still too common. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights. nevertheless, increased regional and international cooperation shows that montenegro is on its way. the ongoing efforts of the country are visibly recognised and montenegro is encouraged to continue to work on this positive development.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks arising from exposure to asbestos. nevertheless, the situation in the countries where fgm is predominant has hardly improved since then. it is a shame that this repugnant and degrading practice has not been curbed and has been imported into europe by mass immigration: it is estimated that there are some 500 000 victims of genital mutilation in europe! often, migrant women living in the eu are circumcised while visiting their home country, where the act is not prosecuted because it is either not a criminal offence or is tolerated by the authorities. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. the resolution contains important steps, but it does not say a word about the fact that genital mutilation also takes place in the islamic culture. that's why i abstained.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks of exposure to carcinogens at work. in this sense, the proposal can be regarded as quite positive.
in writing. - because of the critical factor of data exchange, i voted no.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, we are on the verge of a major success for our climate policy. unlike most other sectors, co2 emissions from road transport are increasing - it is now the second largest greenhouse gas emitter in the eu! cars alone are responsible for about 12% of all european co2 emissions. between 1990 and 2008, emissions from transport increased by 26%. the roadmap to a single european transport area, adopted by the commission in 2011, aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector by 60% by 2050. but to achieve this goal, we must make a tremendous effort. the report by thomas ulmer is a first step in the right direction: 95[nbsp ]g/km of passenger car fleet consumption by 2020 is an ambitious target; the values currently in force are reduced by up to 28%. this regulation may involve painful measures, but in the long term it will help to promote eco-innovation, improve the competitiveness of the european automotive industry and create quality jobs!
i have to say, madam president, a brand is always a promise to consumers - a promise that provides better security than a so-called no-name product, according to the consumer. that's why the brand is important, meaningful and good! it is not only for the protection of the producer but also for the protection of the consumer. what a brand is not and cannot be is a weapon against generics. and here we are in the middle of a real problem. it is clear from the speech by mrs gallo that the amendment proposed by the two large groups here weakens the application and is also against the agreement. that is why i am very clear in my rejection. i think it's wrong to use trademark protection as a weapon against generics. we cannot support this with weak formulations.
the commission has already done so. we all know that the single market is one of the greatest achievements of our european union. unfortunately, we must also acknowledge that millions are made from illegal drugs, trafficking in human beings, arms and art, and then laundered through legal businesses. the directive is an attempt to put a stop to this. the profits or assets of organised crime should be capable of being seized or recovered across borders in a simple and effective manner. we need better, more efficient and more uniform rules here, and this directive will give us them. the aim must be to preserve the single market, but to combat organised crime which abuses it in a correspondingly effective way. d[nbsp ]i.e. more security for europe and its citizens is the goal. i am also convinced that this directive will bring us a significant step closer to that goal, and at the same time help europol and eurojust in their important work to ensure the security of the citizens of europe. i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on this excellent report and the commission on its excellent proposal.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the aim of this new regulation is to make europol's work more effective. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am afraid that it will fail in one area, namely in the area of data processing for the purpose of fighting crime, namely in the context of amendment no 128, which specifically concerns data reconciliation. if we were to support everything that is being asked of us on the left of this house, we would turn europol, the police agency, into a documentation agency. we're bureaucratizing the whole system. why would you do that? because when data are being compared, there are several reasons to be given, several documents to be documented, consultations to be held, these consultations to be documented again, and then the data protection officer to be informed of all this. if you count 4000 cases per month and 15 minutes for each case, europol needs 25 more officials just to deal with this bureaucracy. the data protection yes, but bureaucratization in this sense should not take place! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. you mentioned the bureaucratic effort. but what do you think this additional bureaucratic effort would entail in terms of the additional risks that data that should be confidential, especially in the field of investigation, would then be leaked out and lead to completely unnecessary prejudices?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. there are a lot of regulations that ensure that there is absolute data protection. there is hardly any agency that is as closely monitored to ensure that all data protection provisions are respected as europol. but what is happening here is actually threatening to paralyse europol and make police work, namely the fight against organised crime, in europe impossible. i am very much against this. i also thank the commissioner for pointing out some of these shortcomings. not everything that some members of this house wish to see is actually for the purpose of policing and security in europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the debate this evening is, i think, much more honest than the present report. there is a broad consensus here that we want to bring the best people here, to invite them, precisely to make up for the demographic deficit in these areas, but then i read in the report that these measures should promote the circulation of knowledge, so that both parties benefit from it and not the most capable minds from the third countries of origin migrate. that's hypocritical! but the problem is, of course, that on the one hand you pretend on the outside that you do not want to invite anyone in, citing the corresponding elite qualifications, but on the inside - and i would like to warn you specifically about this, dear colleagues - you pretend that everyone is welcome anyway. this is precisely the danger that these measures, which are in principle sound, could be misunderstood as a new gateway to uncontrolled immigration. this opens up even more space for those of us who are always talking about playing with the dangers and fears. and instead of setting clear rules to prevent wage dumping, hidden and unwanted immigration, especially for students with families, we seem to be opening the doors too wide. this is a dangerous report!
i have to say, madam president, i can only join the speaker. i don't understand it either. and we have repeatedly asked for it. if you are sitting here, if you want to discuss, if you follow the discussion, if you also speak, then there is a change in the chair of the meeting, it is also announced beforehand that the name is obviously known and written down, and then suddenly you cannot get in touch because obviously the chair is changing. i don't think that's right, and i'm asking you to stop that. you can say it loud and clear, and you won't have to sit around. but it would also be a matter of courtesy and fairness if the people who are going to speak were called when the bureau changes.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to counter my predecessor, who was concerned that the eurocritics here are obviously having problems voting, by saying that one can be eurocritical in its present form, but one can also be helpful and helpful. i have been a member of a volunteer fire brigade since i was 15 years old - a youth group at the time - and we did not need the lisbon treaty to work abroad. my fire brigade has already helped in italy, slovenia and germany thirty years ago when necessary. just once for being ready! i think it's an excellent thing. i think it's great that young people are encouraged to do something like this. the funds may be a little tight. but i would like to remind you once again that we have a lot of problems in this area within europe too. we have whole member states where these preventive activities do not exist. i am thinking of the preventive fire protection in greece, where there is an insane shortage. so we help ourselves too. this should also be a motivation for young people to be active throughout europe.
mr president, in my view and the view of the majority in my group, ms honeyball presents a very one-sided position in her report and does not take into account the different approaches that we have within the european union. it calls for prostitution to be criminalised; and as a feminist, i also have a problem with the fact that in our patriarchal society, too many men all too often look at women as objects for sex, work or other things and not as dignified human beings in their own right. but criminalisation as in the nordic model does not solve the problems. we need to differentiate between trafficking for sexual exploitation – in prostitution or in households, or wherever – and sex work resulting from active individual decisions. i know some women decide to go into sex work because of the economic hardship they encounter, but this is their decision and their choice. so together with members of other political groups, we propose an alternative motion for a resolution which focuses on the responsibility of member states and especially also on providing exit strategies for those who want to leave prostitution.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, first of all i want to thank the rapporteurs because they have made it very clear how important a european strategy is. targeting the french, the italians and others is not useful. we need a strong european strategy; that is what the rapporteurs say and that is very important. but the question really is: is this strategy embedded in a long-term vision for europe? yes, as the president of the commission said, there is some improvement at the growth level but there are still many people in europe who think that inflation is the big problem. deflation may be a big problem very soon, and if the ecb is to be criticised over anything, it is perhaps that they underestimate, as the commission does, the deflation in europe. mass unemployment is still here, especially for the younger generation too. here is the one point on which i agree with president barroso, because i see that many member states do not use the money delivered by parliament and the council under what is, admittedly, a pragmatic agreement for the youth guarantee. it is important to invest this, important that the money should go there. unemployment is still much too high in most countries. but it is not only unemployment, there are also social issues; social issues will have to be on the agenda: poverty, child poverty and health risk. now neither the commission president nor the vice-president are listening and i can understand that they do not listen because they do not want to hear – i am speaking to mr[nbsp ]rehn here – that nearly 30% of children are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. what are you going to do about that? do you know that you will not defeat child poverty with your policy? infant mortality in greece – i now address the minister – has increased by 43%! this is not only a result of the crisis but also of the european union’s crisis policy: to raise infant mortality, something that is catastrophic in the european union. this is what we should talk about. president barroso is right that it would be dishonest not to speak about progress, but it would be at least equally dishonest not to speak about the social problems created by the austerity policy we have in europe today. now the g20 said that an additional 2% growth is needed annually. how will that happen with the kind of policies we have? we would need much more investment to have at least 2% additional growth in europe or worldwide. for example, in education: the minister spoke about education at the meeting of the education ministers. but do you know, minister – sorry to bring this up, it is not your personal responsibility – and does the commission know that in at least 20 eu member states education expenditure today is less as a percentage of gdp than it was before? in 20 member states education expenditure is less as a percentage of gdp and you want to speak about growth! if you do not spend more on education in science and research we will not get more growth. this is the situation in europe today and i do not know what your strategy is about. so let me come to the conclusion, because i do not think that what we have heard today is up to the level of what needs to be done in europe today. they are nice words but we need action; we need action in the sense of growth policy by investment, with action for employment, including action from the european budget; i agree on that point. we also need action on the fight against poverty. i know mr barroso fought for poverty to be included in the europe 2020 strategy but now we have to fight not just for it to be included in words, but included in deeds. a strong fight against poverty, especially child poverty, and against youth unemployment: those are the things we have to do but here we lack clear action from both the commission and the council. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i would like to ask mr swoboda what he thinks we can do to restore many well-paid jobs in europe. what incentives can we put in place to get people back to work, to work longer and to keep the money in their pockets when they work? because we have seen in europe how politicians - heads of state and government - spend money. what specifically do you propose to keep more money in the pockets of our workers?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. so i don't know if there's an election campaign, but let's get to the point! the commission has also found that a thousand billion euros a year are lost through tax evasion or do not go to the tax authorities. we do not need higher taxes, we just need an effective fight against tax evasion and finally the financial transaction tax. if we had that extra income, we could invest, and then we could create more jobs! (applause from the centre)
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets. - mr president, the european semester is the first part of the annual cycle of economic policy, guidance and surveillance. it gives analysis, provides recommendations and monitors their implementation. we have heard many statements already today and, comparing this year’s survey with last year’s, one understands very quickly that there are barely any differences, with the exception that, amongst other things, we have the new mff. there has been progress made in spain, ireland and in portugal. there is also the youth guarantee implementation plan. there are many things, but one thing that i miss definitely, and which we should work on with all our force, is a system of own resources. it is a hot topic, i know; it is certainly one of the topics we should have at the top of our budgetary agenda. there is still a lot to do. minister, allow me to say one thing: you mentioned unemployment. may i alert you to the 55-plus generation. let us also do something in that field now, before it is too late.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the original purpose of the european semester - and probably well-intentioned - was to help safeguard the euro stability criteria. but that has changed. it gradually becomes the central control organ of a planned eu economy. the commission then intervenes in the budgetary planning of the member states and instrumentalises it for eu objectives. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive. the leveling-up to the economic average is therefore taking place. the commission considers that a national current account surplus of 6% of economic output is a threat to the stability of europe. this is a penalty for competitiveness. but the penalisation of competitiveness, the penalisation of success within an economic union is not a sensible concept, especially in the context of global competition. how do you want this to go? will there soon be a law that regulates how successful a nation can be at the olympics so that another nation does not feel disadvantaged? what i also miss is a scream. no one in the union has called for a 'stop' or a 'stop' against this interference with the rules of the market economy. no one is protesting against a central intervention in the sovereignty of our states. i am reminded of the former comecon countries, which also simply joined the planned economy and said yes and amen to everything.
in writing. i cannot share the commission's optimism; it is true that we have growth in europe again, but this is overshadowed by the catastrophic situation on the labour markets. the citizens are not aware of the minimal economic growth, the recovery of the markets! what they feel is the 'growth' in long-term unemployment; it's now at record levels! the situation on the labour markets is catastrophic eu-wide, 23% of all young people are unemployed! the poverty rate is rising, the infant mortality rate is rising! this is what a recent study shows: in greece, infant mortality has increased by 43 percent! we must not close our eyes to reality: the commission must finally respond with concrete measures - the rapid implementation of the financial transaction tax, the fight against tax evasion, more investment in education, research and innovation to create jobs again - all these are measures that can help citizens!
in writing. - in order to allow the regulation to enter into force as soon as possible and to allow it to be implemented as quickly as possible, thus avoiding unnecessary complications, delays and disadvantages, this report was to be welcomed.
in writing. - the rapporteur seems to have several issues with the changes that have been made to regulatory procedures with scrutiny and opposed the deletions that have been made, allegedly without any justification. in this context one should tread with caution and carefully consider the circumstances surrounding delegated acts and the regulatory procedure with scrutiny.
in writing. - the report deals with the regulatory procedure with scrutiny and the adaptation of legal acts in the field of justice. this adjustment is aimed at removing from all legal instruments all provisions relating to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny by the end of the seventh parliamentary term. the rapporteur believes that the aim is to prepare the appropriate legislative measures and thus complete the process of adaptation to the new legal framework. the report is therefore to be welcomed, since the adaptation of the new legal framework is to be accompanied by a guarantee of the rule of law. i 'm not .
in the case of the commission, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the lawyer has been working as an auditor for the austrian court of auditors since 1991 and has a long experience. i welcome the confirmation of the nomination and wish you every success on this journey.
in writing. - members of the ep should also be able to apologise to the president of the ep for absences from plenary sessions, for example because of illness, serious family circumstances, business trips on behalf of parliament, impending birth or maternity leave. this is quite reasonable, although the absence of members who are also attending other events or press conferences in the exercise of their mandate could then be regarded as 'not excusable'. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal, although it is not an ideal solution.
in writing. - the report by gerald häfner deals with the attendance and absence of members of the european parliament at meetings. the amendment provides that, under certain conditions, absent meps will no longer be listed as 'absent' but as 'excused'.
in writing. - there is no doubt that it is important to contain or reduce the ever-increasing global co2 emissions in the long term in order to counteract undesirable changes in our environment and to conserve the exhaustible fossil energy sources. on the other hand, it is important that these objectives are pursued not only by europe but by the whole world. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the car industry has invested heavily in reducing emissions and co2 emissions in recent years. of course, it has to go further in that direction. but this must not lead to production being shifted to countries which are not interested in reducing co2 emissions, while jobs are being lost here. i think that the direction we are taking is the right one, but that the measures should be gradual, so i abstained.
in writing. - the objective of significantly reducing co2 emissions from motor vehicles by 2020 means, above all, a significant reduction in fuel consumption. this is a sensible objective in terms of conserving fossil fuels, reducing our carbon footprint and reducing our dependence on oil by promoting innovation. however, the report lacks clear statements for the period after 2020. while this is partly due to technological progress that cannot be foreseen today, a further development directive could increase the planning certainty of car manufacturers, especially since they are likely to reach the current 2020 target using the current but outdated (co2 emissions) testing methods. the report therefore contains a number of positive approaches, but with significant gaps. i therefore abstained from voting.
in writing. - the report presented by thomas ulmer looks at the achievement of the 2020 target for reducing co2 emissions from new passenger cars and highlights the need to create incentives for car manufacturers and developers to design and implement eco-innovations. the report can be regarded as positive in this respect. the statement that it is not sensible to submit a proposal for the revision of the rules for the period after 2020 as early as 2014 should be considered carefully as these are significant reductions in co2 emissions, timely initiatives are needed and must not be delayed, especially in this case. i 'm not .
in writing. - the present proposal aims to revise the system of trade marks in europe. in particular, the structure of the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) is to be revised. the protection of intellectual property is a very sensitive subject which must be treated with caution. however, patent protection is complex and therefore does not pay off for many smaller companies and individuals. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union does not become a mere mere mere institution. the current system of fees and administrative burden in the european patent system certainly needs improvement. i have taken this into account in my voting behaviour.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade mark is protected. the commission is also proposing to change the name of the eu trade mark from 'european trade marks' to 'union trade marks'. the report can be adopted in this sense, since the harmonization of the european internal market is an important priority of the current legislative period. i 'm not .
in the case of the european parliament, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. even before the european elections in may, it will be much easier for the police to have witnesses questioned and houses searched in other eu countries! open borders are a benefit for citizens, but they must not become a benefit for criminals. that's why we're strengthening security cooperation!
in the report, the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the financial interests of the member states, in particular the protection of the financial interests of the union. in particular, the points of extended confiscation, confiscation without previous conviction and confiscation of assets transferred to third parties are to be included. n. inclusion without a previous conviction is a particularly important point, as it can prevent future crimes from being financed with the proceeds of previously committed crimes the report is therefore in favour of the n. of
in writing. - the existing trade mark legislation in the eu member states has been in place for a very long time. a revision now provides an opportunity to draw lessons and to further strengthen the aspects of relevant legislation on trade marks. the report is a step in that direction and should therefore be adopted.
in writing. - the eu police agency europol is to be given new responsibilities for the prosecution of cybercrime, cooperation with the european anti-fraud office (olaf) and crime prevention. security is a matter for the citizens. the epp is working hard to ensure that the eu brings a tangible increase in security for citizens!
in writing. - of course, the eu needs an effective and efficient authority to support member states in the fight against serious crossborder crime and terrorism. if the training of europol staff is to be promoted, data protection should be given greater importance. after all, the agency has been collecting data from completely innocent citizens for a long time, and it seems to take a year to correct any misrepresentations. it is fitting that commissioner malmström last year called on citizens to take action against 'extreme and populist' parties. she called on citizens to identify potential offenders and to remove them from the streets in cooperation with local authorities. in this context, it should be made clear that europol and eu bureaucracy institutions in general must not be used as a means of fighting political opponents. i cannot therefore agree with the proposal and have abstained.
in writing. - the report deals with the responsibilities of the european police office and, more specifically, with cooperation between europol and the national police authorities of the member states. particular attention will be paid to the exchange of personal data, as this is to be improved between europol and the member states. although the rapporteur also stresses the protection of this data, it must be carefully considered whether the increased collection of personal and private data is the appropriate solution to combating international crime, especially in the light of recent developments in data protection.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the single market. europe is in a worldwide competition for the best minds. we need to position ourselves as an attractive location for countries like the us, canada or emerging nations like india! about 18 percent of migrants coming to austria have at most an ahs degree. we need to urgently increase the percentage of highly skilled migrants. europe's attractiveness for top-level professionals will only increase if we adopt a common pan-european approach!
in writing. - the recast of this directive contains some positive points, as it should still be possible for students from third countries to study in the eu. in the end, however, the amendments are rejected by a majority, as they bring few benefits to real students, researchers, trainees, pupils and au pairs. most of the changes are just opening the door to unwanted migration. the aim is to recruit highly qualified people, especially from africa, and to enable them to remain in the countries where they have studied for a long time. but the fact that these people are also urgently needed as doctors in africa, for example, is not mentioned here. on the other hand, the economy and industry are trying to keep down the prices on the labour market for europeans by importing highly qualified workers from africa. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to grant the right to move to another member state to a third country, in accordance with the provisions of the treaty on european union. such a well-packaged repeal of our immigration rules i can only approve of with a no to this motion. demographic problems are solved by effective family policy, not by immigration.
in the light of the lack of young workers and the absence of legislation against exploitation and undeclared work in apprenticeships and au pairs in europe, it is essential to support this report. the eu needs highly qualified workers, who can also come from third countries.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of voluntary service. since the second republic, volunteering has been and remains the backbone of our state and our culture of solidarity. the enormous services that this organisation provides in the framework of voluntary, unpaid work have become indispensable to us and should be supported throughout the eu. this system not only helps those who are threatened by natural or man-made disasters or already affected by their consequences, but it also gives individual citizens the tangible opportunity to express their humanity in concrete actions. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life of the people of europe. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption.
in writing. - the report by michèle striffler deals with the establishment of the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps and stresses that any aid must be based on fundamental humanitarian values. there is clearly room for improvement, but the volunteer humanitarian aid corps approach is particularly commendable at a time when crises are reaching unprecedented proportions.
in the fight against poverty in europe, the european parliament has increased the budget from 2.5 to 3.5 billion euro, which will be further increased by co-financing, and has decided to make it compulsory for all eu member states to participate. austria will receive €16 billion of this from the eu over the next seven years. poverty is also a problem in austria. often it is only at a glance that one in six children in our country lives on the poverty line! in the 28 eu countries, some 78 million people, or about 16% of the population, are at risk of poverty. in austria, 13 percent of the population, or about 1 million people, live below the poverty line. the eu aid fund is a non-financial aid to those in need, through the distribution of food and basic consumer goods such as clothing, hygiene products, school supplies and sleeping bags, said the social worker. new concepts are also important: in vienna, about 17 per cent of the population is at risk of poverty. at the same time, about 70 million tons of food are wasted every year. it can't be. we must find new ways of countering this absurd situation.
in writing. - in principle, an initiative to help those most affected by poverty is welcome, as long as coordination between regional and local authorities is effective and without additional bureaucratic burden. in this context, it must also be clear that there are some good private initiatives, for example in the area of food waste, with which cooperation should be intensified. the fund is welcome, provided that it does not lead to new migration movements - especially among the roma and sinti - and thus postpone problems rather than tackle them at their root. since it is important to support the weakest members of society, especially in times of crisis, i voted in favour.
in writing. - the report by emer costello deals with the european aid fund, which is designed to help provide support to those most affected by poverty. the report is particularly welcome in view of the promotion of the social dimension of the european union, since in times of financial and economic crisis, children and the elderly in particular are increasingly affected by poverty or are at risk of becoming so. the aim is to enable all union citizens to lead lives of dignity and not to be on the verge of social exclusion.
in writing. - the report by mr groote is very welcome, since the change in circumstances surrounding the supply of biocidal products is understandable and consistent. the aim is to define some terms more precisely and to bring the legislation on classification, labelling and packaging into line. these approaches are justifiable and the report can be voted in favour of.
i have to say, madam president, i should like to begin by thanking my colleague, mrs antonyia parvanova, for this report. it's very good in itself. i would like to emphasize two points in particular which are really dramatic: this is the fight against genital mutilation, a particularly serious form of violence against women, in recital af, or in recital ah, the enormous number of honour killings, which occur particularly in immigrant families from archaic muslim groups. all of this would have been reason enough to support this report. i have one point, however, which has made it impossible for me to do so, and that is recital n. here abortion is practically backed up by the back door. i can't accept that. as much as i really support the rest of this report - and that is why i am here today to give my explanation of vote - i find it impossible to have a report which is either directly or indirectly in favour of abortion, and that is why i voted against it.
in writing. - while the report 'eliminating violence against women' has a useful background, it is not enough to solve this situation by increasing the flow of money. in some third countries, violence against women is not an isolated incident. worse still, they are often tolerated and in some cases even encouraged by the government. the report calls for more money to achieve the impossible with the unnecessary. i would rather see a legislative condition for the distribution of funds to third countries which respect the protection of women's rights, and which will lead to the cancellation of funds if they do not. the protection of women and safety are very important to me, but the report's approach should be given more credibility by including money from third countries and a clearer strategy within the eu. that is why i have abstained from this report.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial support for the fight against violence against women is not used to the detriment of the general public. this is particularly alarming in a union which is committed to the protection of human rights. gender-based violence against women and girls is an expression of the still prevalent discrimination against women and gender inequality. in a union committed to the equality of all people and to peaceful coexistence, it is particularly important to take appropriate measures to combat violence against women and girls and to raise public awareness of this type of violence. at international level too, the european union must set an example in the fight against gender-based violence against women and girls and continue to promote gender equality.
in writing. - sustainable growth is essential for long-term recovery, particularly in combating the persistently high level of unemployment in the eu. the european semester should provide greater financial transparency. the commission is also proposing to increase the number of eu-funded projects in the field of education and training. however, it must be clear that economic growth and success cannot be prescribed. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - the report's content, such as the focus on education and the resulting economic growth, is fully in line with my ideas on how to deal with the crisis in the long term. i can only agree with the rapporteur's views on the labour market, employment and social systems. i would like to emphasize in particular the proposal to invest unused structural fund resources in youth employment programmes and sme support. this investment is highly sensible. the consequences of open labour markets, such as the emigration of skilled workers and, later, the recognition of pension rights and transitional benefits, are also adequately addressed.
in writing. - this strategy for the future of plant breeding addresses aspects of productivity, diversity, health and quality. today, the agricultural sector is facing extreme demands, particularly in terms of increasing productivity to ensure the future supply of the world's population. the development of a new variety from research to seed takes an average of ten years, and additional time is needed for testing and commercialisation of a variety, so that large investments in research must be boosted now to meet future food needs and climate change. the cultivation and conservation of local and regional varieties is also important in order to preserve both genetic and cultural diversity.
in writing. - the report on plant breeding gives a very good picture of how the food supply of the world's inhabitants will develop as a result of rapid population growth. without improving the yield and quality of food, it will be impossible to provide enough for the 10 billion people who will soon be living on the planet. however, any further development of the seed must ensure that the diversity of species is maintained and that no gmos are planted. i have taken this into account in the many roll-call votes. the text was well written in many respects, but in the end it left the door open for future developments in the field of genetic engineering. i therefore abstained in the final vote.
in writing. - i voted against the report on plant breeding. point 21 states that the protection of varieties provided for in various eu directives would ensure competitiveness. however, the controversy surrounding the commission's 2013 seed regulation, which was proposed to replace those directives, has made it clear that over-regulated plant variety rights threaten plant diversity. the planned arrangements of the seeds regulation contained a large number of delegated acts, i.e. legislative powers for the commission. this form of domination is to be rejected in principle, and in this case all the more so because monsanto could then have made laws by delegated act. the major groups in the european parliament rejected the seed regulation in the committee on agriculture on 11 february and now announced in full voice that they would also reject the seed regulation in the plenary and refer it back to the commission. consequently, the report on plant breeding should also have been rejected. to let this semen extraction happen is pure hypocrisy.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of the single market. paulsen points out that the area available for farming is limited and that there is an urgent need for more resistant plant varieties. at the same time, it also advocates the preservation of biodiversity and supports measures to support diversity. the question arises whether all the measures and developments requested are actually compatible with each other. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
it is not disputed that the railway package is the order of the day. there's no doubt about that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have decided - as you all probably remember - a few months ago to set up the transeuropean networks with nine core network corridors here. these are economic axes through europe. and now it's about making the most of these core network corridors. the aim should be to get a locomotive from the baltic to the adriatic and a ticket from gdansk to venice. it's about replacing monopoly with competition in the interests of the customers. this generally means better service, better offers for rail users. what we also need is an arbitrator when there are disputes, and for that we have used a regulator. the fourth railway package, which consists of three directives and two regulations, should help to achieve these objectives which i have just mentioned. and there are many positive aspects to this fourth railway package. i would like to stress that, as of 2019, we will also open up the market for domestic passenger rail transport to competition and thus to better offers in the interests of customers, and that we will have uniform ticketing. i also think it is positive that technical solutions are being sought so that no more 6 million euros have to be paid in hinkunft to have a locomotive approved at all and then perhaps only for one country. then you need a separate approval in each country. there will also be further cost reductions associated with a single safety authorisation instead of the 26 safety authorisations we currently need. this, too, leads to cost reductions. that means more efficiency, better supply. in sum, i believe that with the fourth railway package we can make a good offer in the interests of the customers.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. when i was a young member of parliament - in my first term - i was also on the transport committee. there has been a transport policy which has gone in the direction of moving from road to rail and seeing that everything gets better. in my second term, mr kallas became commissioner for transport, and transport policy became ideology, greening became liberalization, optimisation became privatisation. and it has been made to be better for a few and worse for the passengers. i am not prepared to vote for and promote a transport policy which ensures that there are a few who benefit from it and that there are a very large number who will be worse off in the future. i don't want to do that. and if someone else comes along and says: 'in order for this to work, we should also limit the right to strike', then it is really time for me to say: no, not like that! ladies and gentlemen, i don't know how this is gonna play out tomorrow. but on 25 may, there is an opportunity to ensure that there is a different transport policy in europe in the future.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already done so. i would like to begin by thanking you, madam rapporteur, for your excellent cooperation. it's always like this and since we're here together, i can say that it's very good to work with you. the result of this report should be assessed accordingly. it is about safety - safety for passengers, safety for customers, safety for employees. one of the main problems with safety is that safety starts in the small, not even the accidents, but the incidents that happen over and over again in airline operations. of course, these events need to be recorded, they need to be analyzed, and eventually a trend needs to be filtered out. and this trend can then help you see where it might become dangerous and where it might not become dangerous. the basic condition for this is that employees also report these incidents and can also report these incidents without consequences for themselves. we have succeeded in finding a system, together with the council and the commission, both of which have been very constructive in this area, to ensure greater safety in european airspace in the future. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. i would therefore like to thank all those who have contributed to this good result. we have achieved greater security for europe, and that is a good thing!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the importance of this subject for the future cannot be overestimated. we must go into prevention if we are to take the concept of security seriously. the rapporteur did. she has also negotiated fairly with the shadow reporters. it has conducted the negotiations with the council in an excellent manner. and for that, i think you deserve our thanks. in particular, there were long debates with the council on the subject of the so-called just culture, i.e. a culture which makes it possible to identify sources of error in the interests of enhancing security. in reality, it's always a very big problem: in the case of a person who points out sources of error in his own company, he is very often called a quarrelsome person or a person who is at a disadvantage in his work. this usually leads to people keeping their mouths shut, to people not pointing out important sources of error, even to avoid losing their jobs, or to information not being able to get to where it really is needed to eliminate that source of error. we want to change that with this report. that is why this is a very important point. i am very glad that the commission has kept its promise this time and has included the issues of cabin air and fatigue in the workforce in the topics to be reported, because this is also a source of error which we will have to take much more into account in the future than in the past.
in writing. in itself, aviation compared to other modes of transport is a very safe way of getting around. but when something happens, the consequences are even worse, especially in the case of large passenger aircraft. incidents such as toxic cabin air and more or less minor technical failures are often covered up. the fact that toxic oil fumes can be released into the cockpit and cabin by the engine air vents has already caused airlines to rethink their approach. lufthansa, for example, has made changes and is also using analytical equipment to prevent such incidents. the increase in the number of flight passengers who are unable to pay their bills is also a cause for concern. after all, according to the international air transport association (iata), there were over 15,000 incidents between 2008 and 2011. of course, alcohol plays a role in this. after all, it is the low-cost airlines that make the most money selling drinks on board. now, there's little point in demoting the crews to flying drunken sheriffs. given the important role stress plays in this regard, we in europe should take the example of prevention programmes at major international airports.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the question we are discussing today is really very closely linked to saving lives. i think that's very important because we often have accidents in areas where it's very difficult to be identified at all and to even notice an accident. the proposal is therefore very welcome. i believe that it was also important to introduce clearer data protection rules and to make improvements beyond the commission's proposals. the commission also made some reflections, but i think that was not enough, and it is right that we have taken a stronger position here. i also believe that the public ecall system based on the 112 emergency number is important and i also believe that it should be mandatory for everyone because it is an alternative to the normally private care. i also believe that we must take the data protection aspects very seriously in this context, and we have done so. i think, however, that the question of the choice of the on/off switch is problematic because it also concerns the passengers and the occupants of a vehicle, and that is also an important matter which needs to be clarified here. if i get in a car and i'm driving, i need to know what's going on. that is why i believe that there should be no choice in this case. i also think that we should pay more attention to the question of improving emergency services.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. accurate information on the time and place of the accident can certainly increase the efficiency of the rescue operation. the commission is confident that the sleep mode of ecall when not in use will be sufficient for data protection. we also know what the eu's data protection promises look like in practice. there are already a number of plans for ecall: the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation in the member states. the fraunhofer institute is using car hoods to provide a nationwide warning in the event of a disaster. it's very simple, the ecall can be activated externally. car fleets and car rental companies can use an app to check the state of the art, the tank content, the range and the like at their headquarters. workshops know in advance, via telematics data analysis, what maintenance and repair work they will have to do. and insurance companies may want to offer discounts tailored to the way you drive. so much for the so-called sleep mode. the ecall is, in my view, just one step towards total surveillance the glass driver.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i have a question to the honourable member: should an emergency call be given priority when transmitting or should all data transmission methods be treated equally? this is a question that now arises with the digital single market, whether all data should have the same right on the internet or whether an emergency call should actually be given priority in data traffic.
member of the commission. - madam president, it is a pleasure to join you for today’s discussion ahead of the formal endorsement of the agreement on the third health programme. my sincere thanks go to ms grossetête: i remember that even during my hearing she asked me questions on the health programme. even i would have liked more funds so that they would be distributed for the projects. but i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their commitment and intensive work. the aim of the programme is to contribute to: improving people’s health; reducing health inequalities – we are not yet a european union as regards health, there are too many inequalities even though the gap is narrowing; promoting health, but also encouraging innovation in health; increasing the sustainability of health systems, which is a permanent item on the agenda of any meeting of eu health ministers; and finally, protecting our citizens from cross-border health threats – only recently the co-legislators approved the cross-border health threats directive. people’s health is a prerequisite to achieving smart and inclusive growth. by fostering health in europe we also drive forward the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. i am really convinced that the third health programme will enable us to continue supporting and, as ms grossetête said, adding value to the health policies of eu countries, and this despite its small size – if eur[nbsp ]452 million is small, but relatively speaking it is limited. the programme is an important step forward towards better cooperation and better exchange of best practice. the programme focuses on key objectives and priorities where we believe europe can deliver true added value. with this programme, i hope we will be able: first of all, to strengthen action to promote health and prevent diseases (the usual risk factors which we have to challenge and attack: lack of physical activity, nutrition, tobacco consumption and alcohol consumption); secondly, to be better prepared to protect citizens against health emergencies and to coordinate action at european level to address them – why? because health risks do not have any boundaries or frontiers; thirdly, to increase the uptake of innovation in health – there are so many different avenues and means, like e-health; and finally, to improve people’s access to medical expertise and information for specific conditions, and to improve healthcare quality and patient safety. in implementing the programme, we shall draw on the lessons learnt from the previous programmes – and on parliament’s views – to provide the best value for money. so for the first time, we have provided for indicators to monitor the programme objectives in the programme itself. secondly, and for the first time, a mid-term evaluation will be conducted by mid-2017, and this could lead to possible adjustments – through delegated acts, as we agreed – to the thematic priorities if and when required. thirdly, more emphasis will be placed on disseminating the outputs and results of the programme. it is extremely important for us to communicate with europe’s citizens. this programme is a key tool to take the european union’s health policy forward. thank you once again for your cooperation and invaluable input and i look forward to seeing the positive benefits this programme will deliver.
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. - madam president! - what is it? the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor its implementation. more than €60 million a year for research, promotion and innovation in healthcare is an excellent investment. today we have 2014 and we see that the path of 2012 is right. i am concerned, however, about a problem which we have all known for some time: demographic change. in many countries there is a shortage of well-trained nurses and young people in these professions. germany alone expects to have over 3 million people in need of care in its care insurance by 2030. both professionals and families are often severely overburdened. we must urgently change this state of affairs. we must raise awareness of this problem and make care work attractive to young people, professionally and financially, otherwise we will be missing out on enormous potential in the labour market.
the commission has already done so. i am glad that we have worked together with mrs grossetête to revise her proposal. what we had at first was very industrial. now we have a programme where the human being is the centre and the patient is the centre, secondary, and last but not least. the human being is the focus, which means prevention is very important. in times like these, when so much is said about personal responsibility, it is also important to me that this action programme addresses health literacy. because i believe that only when people are equipped with this health literacy, can they move through the health system and apply the concepts that are right for them. it is important not to shy away from investing in this area of personal responsibility, because these are investments in the future which will make our health system more affordable in the future. it is essential to invest in preventive vaccination programmes. this is also addressed in this action programme. we need to tackle chronic diseases like copd, a lung disease that is likely to be the third leading cause of death worldwide in a few years. we need to pay attention to communicable diseases such as tick bites, which are spreading in europe and are currently receiving far too little attention. this action programme contains many good proposals. we must encourage the member states not to save, but to invest, particularly in the health sector. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
i have to say, madam president, i believe that health is a very important concern for all of us, but in health, there are many costs that are created by administrative regulations that are very difficult for doctors and nurses to bear. the central issue of administrative simplification should therefore be put in the centre: for example, when visiting a doctor, only one form should be filled in, indicating the name, date of birth, address and the main uniform number codes, which should be uniform throughout europe. it should be clear whether they are private or public insurances. perhaps an eu-wide chip card for identification could also be a corresponding approach to simplification. there should also be uniform deadlines for billing so that when european citizens travel in another country, doctors can be sure that billing is done, that it is simple, that it is unbureaucratic and that it is transparent.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think it is crucial that we set ourselves new objectives in this area. 2020 is not far away. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's broadband networks are not blocked. we know that in the networks, of course, voice telephony is possible, that data transfer is possible, that on the other hand, movies and television channels are created. so we have really the problem of interoperability. the key question is: are there priorities in this area? and how do you actually make the software that's being created by so many apps now work across the different systems? that is why i believe that parliament's demand to increase the capacity of the internet to one gigabyte per second by 2020 is the right one. we need the necessary expansion in this area. and finally, it's also about the fact that the new possibilities like the 5g network, which is already in the planning, allow us to have completely new structures. we know that the internet of things will require a lot of capacity, but there must also be priorities for the emergency call - we have already discussed the ecall today - the emergency call with the necessary data. it is necessary that there are priorities, because a line cannot be blocked by movie downloads. it is also extremely unpleasant when voice telephony is no longer of quality in the ip area because there is simply too little capacity. so the control possibilities must be preserved in the future.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not let me begin by thanking the rapporteurs. and let me also assure you that in the debates in our panel of rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs, consumer protection has played a dominant role. so anyone who claims that consumer protection has been undermined here is wrong. a right of purchase that works across borders, especially for distance selling, would be an extremely desirable option. however, the problem is the optionality. in addition, it raises a number of legal questions which remain open. the only choice is on the business side. the chambers of commerce are already working very hard to weaken the high level of consumer protection we have now achieved. the problem is that the council, which has been working more and more against consumer interests in recent years, will - i am afraid - adopt these approaches. the optional nature of this area is not desirable in my view, because no consumer has automatically studied law and can then find his way around these possibilities. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. for most member states this would certainly mean an improvement in consumer protection, but not for all this must be made clear, this is clear , on condition that it remains as it is now. the council's practice - i would like to stress this again - over the last few years has shown that the interests of business are the first to be heard, not those of consumer protection. that is my great concern. but what we have negotiated would certainly lead to an improvement in a large number of member states if consumers had a realistic chance of opting for this right to buy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the problem of youth unemployment in europe is in many places a domestic one, mainly due to problems of non-competitive economy. this results in a lack of economic growth, which in turn leads to fewer new jobs for young people. this is another obstacle to the labour market and this is precisely what youth unemployment is. now, guarantees are good, but implementation is better. and after one eu summit after another, we finally have a strategy - albeit with a shamefully small budget of only 6 billion euros. i am particularly pleased that the responsibility for implementation remains with the member states. the exchange of best practice between member states is a particularly useful approach. i am thinking here of the dual system of education practised in austria. but today i have not heard anything concrete, no new ideas for implementing the strategy. in other words, we have a strategy, but we lack tactics. without this, the best guarantee for youth is a bonfire!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the youth guarantee is certainly part of the future development of european employment, but it cannot be the solution. i think austria has shown very well that we can only do this if we invest in the economy, in education, in training, in social and health systems. we can only create jobs if money is invested. we have many programs: investing in health is one way to do that. but we also know that by investing in green jobs, by investing in eco-jobs, by investing in the whole alternative energy sector, we are creating jobs, we are creating employment. and only then will we succeed! employment creates income. income creates purchasing power. purchasing power creates the demand. demand is creating employment. if we do not move this spiral upwards, then the youth guarantee is really just a placebo, to which perhaps one or another head of government in some member states simply refers and says: there is an instrument, let the others use it, i am not interested in that. this contempt for young people and the more than 5.5 million unemployed young people under 25 in europe is misplaced, they deserve a different europe: a europe of employment!
in writing. the youth guarantee is an eu-wide initiative to ensure that young people under 25 are in training, an apprenticeship or a job no later than four months after finishing their education. the youth guarantee is financed by national resources as well as money from the european social fund and the eu employment initiative. the dramatic rise in youth unemployment in some countries is jeopardizing the future of an entire generation. it is therefore of the utmost importance that europe acts decisively. in comparison with the eu, austria has the lowest unemployment and the lowest youth unemployment. our dual training with vocational schools and apprenticeships, our youth guarantee, our efficient labour market service and our social partnership are defined by the eu parliament as a model for those member states which now need to introduce immediate reforms.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not the swiss electorate has spoken and we must certainly take note of and accept this decision. but you have to be very naive or very far right - like our colleague here - or both to be happy that eu citizens are being deprived of their jobs. that's a general story too. yes, you don't care, we don't care that jobs are being taken away! but you'd have to be a right-wing extremist to accept that. but i would like to point out and quote a swiss voice. i quote the zurich newspaper, which says: "on february 9, 2014, not just a change in the system of immigration control was decided. the sovereign has also explicitly said yes to a questioning of relations between switzerland and the european union. other and that's where i differ from mrs. mcguinness. it was a decision of principle, not the first decision to retreat to a snail's nest. if we think about the minaret decision, we think about the so-called eviction initiative. and this is something that switzerland has to decide for itself: does it want to maintain these close relations with the european union or not? and that, of course, is a key question. the swiss are also quite clear, and more so than many of our colleagues, that this was a central element of the agreement between the european union and switzerland and not just some minor element which has been voted down. it is also, of course, to the detriment of switzerland, because many swiss people also work in the european union. we cannot and will not accept that a key element of the agreement between the european union and switzerland has been abrogated here. of course, there were also some elements in switzerland that led to this. it is well known that the swiss unions are currently working on a minimum wage initiative, for example. what we are discussing at european level with the posting of workers directive, namely that there is a risk of social dumping, certainly existed in switzerland. even though the labour force that went to switzerland often had a different level of qualification, where social dumping may not have played this big role. we have to acknowledge that. but i do not think we can proceed to the agenda. in conclusion, switzerland today presents itself as a country that wants our money, including our money from tax evasion - where the banks help with tax evasion - but does not want to accept our workers. we do not want that, we cannot accept that as the european union!
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the concern is unfounded.
i can tell you that we've considered all the concerns in the bureau. the concern is unfounded. that is why we are voting by name.
the vote will be taken at the next voting time.
thank you, thank you. every vote is important and i will conduct it carefully and responsibly. only when i'm not sure, i'll call it. i think we found a good way.
ladies and gentlemen, both opinions have been delivered. the libe committee's motions are also on the voting list. we have to decide which proposals will get a majority.
mr callanan, we are not going to re-enter the debate. let me just say this: it is true that the president, after talking to members and to me, has decided, and that all members have been informed by e-mail, that the voting list has been updated. we shall therefore vote on the basis of this list, which contains a number of requests for separate votes. i can inform you, after consulting the president, that it is clear that this form of voting therefore has a preliminary effect and that all relevant votes will therefore be held in accordance with this procedure in future, so that we do not have the same discussion every time. that would be the end of the debate we have had in the last few hours. i think we can put this to the vote because there is a new list of votes. i ask you to understand.
you know there are deadlines. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the matter.
madam president, we are voting on this right now. the text is first voted on as a whole, except for the points which are then voted on separately. there is no contradiction here.
we shall now vote.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
we shall begin with the explanations of vote which were not dealt with yesterday, starting with the cofferati report. the explanations of vote on the points on which we voted today follow. i must inform you that we have received many requests for oral explanations. we can only continue the sitting until 2.45 p.m. at the latest, as we were faced with the situation yesterday, so that the departments can make preparations for the resumption of the sitting at 3.00 p.m. any further explanations of vote which i cannot call upon today will be dealt with tomorrow after the vote.
in writing. - the original purpose of the european semester was to help safeguard the euro stability criteria. but this has changed: it has gradually developed into the central control organ of an eu planned economy. the commission then intervenes in the budgetary planning of the member states and instrumentalises it for eu objectives. in addition, the brussels provisions restrict (institutional) competition between member states. in fact, this leveling is achieved to the economic average. this has to stop! the european union is a global economic union, and the european union is a global economic union. where does that end? will there soon be a law that determines how successful a nation can be at the olympics so that other nations will not feel disadvantaged? the cofferati report reinforces this development the eu's powers of economic governance are to be significantly expanded in the single market. this is another step towards a planned economy based in brussels. i therefore reject this report in all its force.
in writing. - the report presented deals with the completion of the european internal market and, in this context, emphasizes the implications for sustainable economic growth. in particular, key areas such as services, financial services, transport, energy and the digital market are to be further coordinated in the light of the economic and employment policies to be improved. in this sense, the report is very welcome and should be adopted.
in writing. - the european commission's report on the implementation of cohesion policy shows that the economic crisis has led to deepening disparities between the eu member states as a whole and between specific regions within them. in many member states, projects financed by the structural funds and the cohesion fund have had difficulty securing national co-financing. at the same time, the dependence on cohesion policy funding has increased. for example, in latvia, cohesion policy funding (lat 3.2 billion in 2007-2013) accounts for around 70% of total public investment. unfortunately, the conclusion is that cohesion policy has so far focused more on collecting resources than on achieving concrete results that improve lives at local and regional level. i therefore voted in favour of this ep report, which calls for the proper involvement of local and regional authorities in the development of national strategies, avoiding an increase in administrative burden. this is particularly important in terms of defining specific problems and tasks, so that resources are directed to those areas where they would provide the greatest support to entrepreneurial people and create new jobs. the ep's report calls for emphasis to be placed on projects that ensure sustainable employment and social integration, in particular by promoting the activities of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are very important in latvia.
in writing. - the report presented looks at the commission's seventh and eighth progress reports on european cohesion policy, the progress made so far and the improvement approaches still to be pursued. the rapporteur is critical of the commission and the member states' approach to regional disparities, budgetary consolidation and monitoring and evaluation instruments. the rapporteur's criticisms are relevant and this report is very much to be welcomed.
in writing. - the report presented deals with the potential of the outermost regions. it is pointed out that these regions are too often overlooked, even though they are an extension of the eu in the world. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of regional and local authorities. the synergies between the structural funds should also be accompanied by specific directives and regulations to prevent abuse and multiple payments. for this reason, this report should be considered carefully.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report, as it gives the european institutions an additional instrument to work with and better evaluate how the european union’s financial means are being used by the member states, simply by bearing in mind and taking into consideration the experiences and results achieved in the past. the report states that, using this new evaluation method, the european parliament can ‘assess policy achievements and the legality of financial transactions’ and ‘reinforce the performance culture in the financial management of the union and prepare’ the way to ‘a performance-based budget’. i think the european union and its citizens are entitled to know how the finances of the union are used. in my view, ‘transparency’ is more than welcome in this case.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposed amendments to the directive should be adopted by the council. i'm with you on that. there is no technical or legal reason for any further delay. i want the technology that can save lives to be mandatory in new cars. now we need to establish a uniform standard. the technology known as 'ecall' is an electronic emergency call that detects an accident through sensors in the vehicle, automatically sends an emergency call to the emergency call centre and at the same time transmits the exact location of the accident. i estimate that this could prevent at least 10 percent of the accident deaths. faster assistance also reduces the severity of injuries. a total of 28 000 people died in road accidents in the eu in 2012. in austria, there were over 40,000 accidents with personal injury during the same period. this is an increase of over 15 percent over the previous year. there were 531 deaths. every minute counts to save the lives of those injured and to reduce the consequences of serious injuries. the new eu regulation is helping to do this.
in writing. - the author of this recommendation points out that an association agreement has already been signed with the republic of costa rica, the republic of el salvador, the republic of guatemala, the republic of honduras, the republic of nicaragua and the republic of panama, but it also points out that in this context only the trade-policy part of the agreement is applied. a decision to intensify political dialogue can take into account and increase the focus on key issues such as human rights, migration and the fight against terrorism. the rapporteur's recommendation reflects these priorities particularly important european values which should also be taken into account in central america.
in writing. - the report by mrs weber deals with the association agreement between the european union and central america. the rapporteur notes that the association agreement is very broad, but the article in question is mainly concerned with the readmission of illegal immigrants. however, it also covers priorities such as social and economic cooperation, consumer protection, health, data protection, cooperation on the environment and biodiversity and cooperation on gender equality.
in writing. - article 145 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union requires the member states and the union to work towards developing a coordinated employment strategy and to promote the skills, training and adaptability of workers. the europe 2020 strategy makes it possible to steer the union's economic system towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth with high levels of employment, productivity and social cohesion. five common core objectives have been defined. these employment guidelines are to remain unchanged until 2015 and updates are to be limited to a minimum of 3 years.
in writing. - the report by mrs pervenche berès deals with the guidelines for employment policies in the member states. the rapporteur calls for parliament to be informed of significant changes to texts already approved. these demands are quite justifiable and the report can be supported in this sense.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report, as i welcome the european commission’s intention to decrease the tax burden for our citizens. in the commission proposal the main objective is to increase the efficiency of vat collection, which would, theoretically, imply that costs for member states and taxable persons will decrease. another positive aspect is that economic activity will be sustained, as the proposal aims to reduce burdens on the business environment and remove obstacles in the internal market in order to ensure a proper functioning of the economy.
in writing. - the report by mrs hübner deals with the six-month extension of the reduced rate of excise duty applicable to rum and liqueur products produced and consumed in the autonomous region of madeira and to liqueur and spirits products produced and consumed in the autonomous region of the azores. this reduced rate of tax is intended to compensate for the additional costs incurred by the producers located there as a result of their remote location. the six-month extension is intended to coincide with the expiry of the regulation and the guidelines currently in force.
in writing. - the report by mrs hübner deals with the question of the partial or total exemption from the special 'octroi de mer' tax for mayotte, which, as an outermost region of the european union, faces difficult production and transport conditions. the rapporteur sees this tax exemption as a necessary consequence of the change in mayotte's status in order to support its competitiveness. the report is welcomed as this tax reduction is only applicable to 59[nbsp ]products for which additional cost information was submitted. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
in writing. - the interim report by ana gomes deals with the comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and the republic of indonesia. the economic and social developments in the republic of indonesia are to be duly acknowledged, but the rapporteur considers that there is still room for action. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the free movement of goods between the european community and the republic of turkey. in this sense, the interim report can be considered quite critical, since the author clearly expresses her legitimate reservations.
in writing. - the report contains the recommendation on the readmission system discussed in the previous report.
in writing. - the report by ana gomes deals with the readmission to which the eu and indonesia are committed by signing the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation. this is done with the aim of preventing and controlling illegal immigration in line with international obligations and the principle of non-refoulement. the fundamental rights of returnees in their return must be respected and upheld.
in writing. - the negotiating directives for a readmission agreement between the european community and turkey were adopted by the council on 28 november 2002. in may 2005, the negotiations were officially opened in brussels. this agreement is very important for turkey to take back people from the eu. the resumption is linked to the visa liberalisation roadmap with turkey (visa-free travel); turkey signed the agreement on 16 december 2013, after the visa liberalisation roadmap was introduced. the obligation to take back one's own national also extends to family members (spouses and minor unmarried children) irrespective of their nationality who do not have an independent right of residence in the requesting state. the readmission obligation for third-country nationals or stateless persons is subject to a number of preconditions and does not apply until three years after the entry into force of the entire convention.
in the case of the turkish border, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the turkish border is not crossed by any other border. turkey is thus the main transit country for illegal immigration into the european union. the readmission agreement would make an important contribution to curbing illegal immigration to the european union via the territory of turkey. at the same time, it would contribute to the fight against crossborder crime, in particular trafficking in human beings, and would lead to a significant relief for greece and thus for the european union as a whole. in order to make it possible to return migrants who have entered the european union illegally, i am voting in favour of this agreement with turkey.
in the case of the turkish authorities, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the application of the principle of non-refoulement. the rapporteur also condemns the uncompromising attitude of turkey, which is now linking its signature to the agreement to visa liberalization and thus wants to put pressure on the european union. the return agreement should be considered, but it would also involve significant financial support, as the agreement would provide turkey with financial and technical assistance from the european union for the establishment of border police and border surveillance equipment. in view of the human rights situation in turkey - a candidate country which has not committed itself to complying with the binding copenhagen political criteria for the pre-accession phase since it obtained this status - it should be carefully considered whether additional financial resources should be allocated to this country.
in the future, the final votes at committee level will be taken by name by the members. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i believe that this innovation was long overdue, since it will finally bring more transparency to the work of the european parliament. the computer system now records the name of each participating member and whether he or she voted for or against a proposal or abstained. the amendment also requires a roll-call vote in plenary for non-binding resolutions. at present, this procedure is mandatory only for legislative decisions; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railways are able to operate across europe without technical or bureaucratic obstacles. the ppp has voted for efficient, fast, low-cost and service-oriented rail transport. the aim of travelling from gdansk to venice via vienna with a single train and a single ticket will only become a reality if the old monopolists are forced to cooperate. i believe that competition in the railway market is essential to make rail transport more attractive. our transport policy of switching from road to rail will only succeed if rail becomes even more efficient and service-oriented, especially in passenger transport. this requires fair competition, europeanisation and the approximation of technical standards. what good is the eu if the air conditioning in the carriage stops working on a train heading for the border and the italian railway company can prohibit austrian trains from stopping at mestre? national monopolies, different types of electricity, different safety standards and track gauges are a relic of the last century and are now being abolished once and for all.
in writing. - although the commission's proposal was improved in many respects by the report voted on today, i abstained in the final vote because i do not agree in principle with the commission's 'one size fits all' approach. there is no link between the structure of the railway undertaking and the railway's market share or customer satisfaction. on the contrary, the most successful railways in passenger transport are integrated railways. the different regional characteristics of the member states should be taken into account more closely and a uniform (separate) company structure should not be prescribed. interoperability and the development of international rail links are much more important for the european railway area.
in the case of the railways, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railway system is not affected by the introduction of new technologies. under the pretext of liberalization, there is a threat of overbureaucratization for smaller railway companies. the present package will make it virtually impossible to operate public transport services for general use without a profit maximisation approach. the municipalities are deprived of the possibility of compensating for losses incurred by their local transport undertaking by means of profits made by other municipal undertakings. this naturally has a negative impact on the provision of services by bus and rail. public operators will face eu-wide competition on the few profitable routes, while there will be little international interest in the less interesting and loss-making secondary routes. the fourth railway package threatens to destroy the secondary lines and regional railways. the rural regions are particularly affected, as their infrastructure is becoming increasingly depleted.
in writing. - the 4th railway package is designed to promote the integration of european rail transport. the main elements are a mandatory eu-wide tender instead of a direct public procurement, more separation within a railway company between the individual sub-operations, such as network and operation, and a central european approval authority (era) for railway matters. this is to increase competition and increase safety. so much for the theory, because we have heard the same stories in the postal, energy and telecommunications sectors, and reality has often shown something else. the railway companies of smaller eu member states will be particularly affected. these have few profitable routes and are now also competing with giants such as db and sncf, which have much larger financial resources. at the same time, cross-subsidisation is now much more difficult, i.e. how can öbb's non-profit routes, which are operated in the public interest, continue to be financed without incurring debt? surpluses from grid operation may no longer be transferred to running lines. competition would not harm öbb, but not too much and not too quickly, otherwise the costly failure of the öbb rescue could result for the taxpayer. that's why i voted against the fourth railway package.
in writing. - the report presented on the unification of the european railway area considers that the performance of the railway sector should be significantly increased. in this context, it is committed to the creation of a transit ticket, the fight against social dumping in respect of employees and passenger rights. however, it should be carefully considered whether the point concerning the retention of passenger data should be accepted, as this system is very similar to the backup of passenger data and should be carefully considered with regard to data protection.
in writing. - the rapporteur was able to reach a compromise with the majority of the groups on the key elements of the report: direct award, open access and competitive award procedures, the principle of reciprocity (internal and vis-à-vis third countries), the content of the transport plan (with clear criteria on efficiency and quality requirements), the role of the competent authority (regional and also local), information and under- and overcompensation, the scope of public service contracts (options for small and large member states: small states can be covered by a single public service contract and the larger the market, the greater the number of contracts to be awarded), the use of rolling stock and transit time. the committee therefore supported measures to limit the scope of public service contracts and to promote increased competition in this sector.
in writing. - there is no link between the degree of liberalisation and the quality and efficiency of the railway system. further liberalisation of the railways will only lead to the 'picking of raisins' on profitable routes and to profits for a few large companies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. i therefore voted against the grosch report on principle, although i recognize that the socialist group has been able to achieve some important improvements for workers.
in writing. - the report presented deals with the unification of the railway sector and the interoperability of the railway system. the rapporteur is in favour of opening up the sector and against the fragmentation of the railway sector. the time taken for a new company to establish itself should be reduced. the main aim is to adopt the third railway package to make the fourth package possible.
in writing. - the report by the greens/efa rapporteur is ambitious and contains provisions for the future european railway sector, under which the european railway agency is the only authority to issue safety certificates and is the last resort for national safety authorities dealing with national safety rules. in close alignment with the interoperability directive, the compromise solutions relate to the role of the era as the authority responsible for issuing individual safety certificates (depending on the field of application); clearly defined division of responsibilities and relationship between the era and the nsas, deadlines to be applied in the application procedure; the use of languages; social provisions on rest periods and the creation of conditions that facilitate the reporting of safety risks by staff.
in writing. - the report deals with railway safety, an important issue because railway accidents are very rare but have devastating consequences. in this sense, the report is to be welcomed, as the rapporteur is in favour of increased cooperation between all stakeholders in the railway sector and also believes that it should be possible to report concerns anonymously to the national safety agencies. the report is therefore to be welcomed, even if it is necessary to consider whether the issuing of safety certificates should actually be accelerated, as this could be at the expense of safety.
in writing. - the report presented by robert zīle mainly deals with the different conditions for safety authorizations and certificates in the various eu member states. this illustrates the need for action in this area in particular if the railway sector is to be made more attractive and, above all, more competitive. the report is to be welcomed in this sense, since its author is critical of the unequal competition and calls for action to be taken to combat it.
in writing. - the report presented is entirely to be supported, since it concerns compensation which should be equally available to all railway undertakings and therefore the repeal of regulation (eec) no 1192/69 is entirely justified. however, an early repeal of the regulation could have negative consequences and therefore the opposite effect.
in writing. - the report by christine de veyrac deals with the reporting of events in civil aviation and stresses the urgent need for action in this area, as it is assumed that air traffic will increase steadily and significantly. since most occurrence reports are made by aviation workers, these new protective measures are intended to protect them from sanctions or consequences of their reports. the report also calls for the collection of data in a database, which is a welcome approach, but nonetheless requires special attention to data protection. in this respect the report is to be welcomed and can be voted in favour.
in writing. - i support the rapporteur's view that the proposal for a decision on the introduction of the interoperable eu-wide ecall service is welcome and that the objective is to ensure the coordinated and coherent introduction of the interoperable eu-wide ecall service and to ensure interoperability and continuity of the service throughout europe. this is in line with the position of the european parliament, which has repeatedly - including in its resolution on the ecall service - reaffirmed its support for the introduction of the ecall system. the report on a new 112 service for citizens was adopted by a large majority in july 2012; in this report, the rapporteur and therefore the epp group regrets the delays and lack of progress in the voluntary introduction of ecall and urges the commission to propose the regulatory measures necessary to avoid further delays.
in writing. - while the report has made important improvements in the data protection aspects of ecall, the electronics of ecall remain a latent threat. every car is now technologically equipped to be a data transmitter. the citizen has no choice. then it's just a small step to lucrative and governmental surveillance options: insurance companies crave data to personalize contracts, the emergence of various ancillary services with vehicle tracking, secret services that don't follow the law and rules, creation of movement profiles and metadata. saving lives is a noble goal, but it seems that little has been learned from the nsa scandal. this is where the technological foundation is being laid for monitoring the movements of our citizens. a clear yes to saving lives, but also a yes to ecall volunteering. i have therefore abstained from voting on this balance between the clear benefits of ecall and the risks it entails.
in the case of the european parliament, the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. in principle, this approach is very commendable, but this report should not be accepted lightly without considering that automated technology could be used as a basis for a pan-european surveillance infrastructure. the data protection issue is an important aspect which cannot be ignored, especially in view of the recent media reports on mass data storage.
in writing. - i'm glad they finally agreed on a set of rules for the distribution of insurance. these ensure transparent information and competent advice. end product and price opacity consumer protection is paramount!
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as, in my opinion, it offers a wider protection to customer interests and needs. the objective of the european commission proposal on ‘insurance mediation’ is to improve and make conditions of the retail insurance market more efficient and in the interest of the end consumer. the consumers of insurance products would receive better advice and information on the existing insurance products that they would need and, more than that, insurance services will be less complicated as less burdensome rules on free provision and establishment of these services will be introduced. the final vote was postponed.
in writing. - the €60 million health for growth programme is part of the europe 2020 strategy. it is intended to promote innovation in healthcare and ensure its sustainability. some of the approaches in the programme may be good, such as some coordination and exchange of information at eu level. however, health is a national competence and should remain so. that is why i abstained.
in this report the rapporteur sets out the main challenges facing the union in the social and health sectors in the years to come. research and innovation play as important a role here as adequate health standards and prevention. with an ageing population, prevention is particularly important to maintain people's living standards and to keep the social costs as low as possible. the training of qualified staff and the creation of sufficient places and jobs round off this approach. i would like to emphasize the passages on alzheimer's and dementia. these neurodegenerative diseases will increase even more in the future and will place a great burden on society, on family members and on the health system. i support the report's call for preventive action and remedial action to be taken in good time.
dear colleagues, i wish to inform you that i will take no more explanations of votes after colleagues have spoken on the chatzimarkakis report. we will take explanations on the last reports tomorrow after the vote.
in writing. - the aim of today's parliamentary resolution is to achieve a europe-wide internet speed of 1 gigabit per second in at least half of all households and 100 megabit per second in austria by 2020. if we do not succeed in connecting the rural areas of austria to high-power networks, we will be entering a dangerous spiral of further economic separation between the countryside and the urban centre. only if public co-financing rates are high can more private money be mobilised for infrastructure development. in addition, private-public partnerships and tax incentives for network expansion are needed. unfortunately, the eu still lags behind the us, japan and south korea in terms of average broadband speed.
in writing. - digital networks and services are increasingly transforming into internet-based infrastructures, in which broadband networks and digital services are closely interlinked. the internet is becoming the dominant platform for communication, services, education, participation in social and political life and business. therefore, the trans-european availability of secure internet access and high-speed, universally available digital services of public interest is essential for societal growth and for economic growth, competitiveness, social inclusion and the internal market. unfortunately, this design is crude, inefficient and not what it could have been. d. the principle of standardization and the promotion of the development of our transeuropean telecommunications network is fully respected. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
in writing. - the report we are debating is in favour of the transeuropean telecommunications networks and therefore also in favour of completing the digital single market. it is noted that particularly interoperable cross-border ehealth services should be promoted and supported, as there is a huge need for improvement. at the same time, however, we should not ignore those who have difficulty in accessing technology and technological progress. in addition, it is necessary to take into account that the completion of the digital single market should be accompanied by sustainable development and should therefore not impose additional burdens on the environment. the report is therefore in principle positive, but it does have some reservations.
in writing. - the report's concept covers all the principles and techniques to ensure 'accessible access' to public websites for all users. the concept includes the content of a website, web browsers and technologies such as a screen reader. the proposal should ensure that websites are more easily accessible to people with disabilities and older people. the term 'public authorities' covers, for example, the state, local authorities and bodies governed by public law. the total estimated cost of implementation is approximately eur 2 billion. however, what the objectives of this report do not reflect is the user's perspective. the question to be asked here is: what is the benefit of the directive and does it lead to an improvement in the living conditions of the citizens? i have abstained on this vote because of some weaknesses in the report.
in writing. - the rapporteur considers that there is a need to increase the accessibility of public sector websites. the report is also very welcome, as mr chatzimarkakis points out that the measures envisaged do not go far enough and that technical developments in mobile data carriers must be taken into account. since disabled people also need to be guaranteed the same access to public bodies' websites and services, this report should be adopted.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because in my view we have to support long-term investments all over europe, as a help strategy for the european economy and its recovery. i believe that we need more investment; we need more long-term investments for the private sector. we have to assist smes in order to activate the ‘economic engine’. everybody knows that a well-functioning economy has a business environment that also functions very well and this means that access to financing for smes has to be facilitated. we need to create an ‘efficient economic infrastructure’ that will foster sustainable growth and jobs in the long term and that will ensure an economically stable future for our young generation.
in writing. - i see the following problems in this report: the definition of prostitution as a violation of human rights, a violation of human dignity and slavery and thus incompatible with the eu charter of fundamental rights. the portrayal of prostitution as a criminal act. equating prostitution with forced prostitution. the presentation of the nordic model (punishing those who use the services of sex workers) as the only solution to curb prostitution, forced prostitution and sexual exploitation. in austria, as in other member states, prostitution is legal and subject to national regulations. in order to deal with these problems in the best possible way, i voted against the epp line on several points, which supports some of the above points, and i voted accordingly in the free votes. i am very clear about the need to combat illegal prostitution, human trafficking, forced prostitution and sexual exploitation. but it is important to respect legal prostitution, which is regulated differently in the member states, and to draw attention to the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. - the report presented looks at the development of responsible business practices in developing countries. as these are often rich in raw materials, corporate practices that are sometimes in breach of human rights lead to conflict and exploitation of civil society. in this sense, the report by judith sargentini can only be welcomed, as the rapporteur is committed to fair business practices and also points out that transnational companies should be encouraged to adopt responsible practices. the rapporteur's criticisms are appropriate and the report can be accepted.
as previously announced, i will now adjourn the sitting until 3 p.m. so that the next sitting can be well prepared. the other explanations of vote will be called tomorrow.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, what happened in ukraine in the last days is a big step forward for democracy and also for europe, not only for ukraine. now there is a discussion about the legitimacy of what happened. let me be very clear: a man like former president yanukovych who has so much blood on his hands has no moral legitimacy to lead the country and, anyway, he left also kiev in the midst of the crisis. i want to thank the european union because it also has to be very clear that three foreign ministers who negotiated on behalf of the european union not only contributed to the end of violence and of killings, but contributed to a strong position for the european union inside ukraine and to the changes, because it showed the weaknesses of president yanukovych. now we have a new situation, and i want to honour all the people in the maidan who really want to stay until they are sure that things will improve. we have already had a revolution once, maybe even two revolutions, and they failed because politicians thought about themselves rather than about the people and the citizens of ukraine. so now there is a new situation. let us help them to overcome this kind of petty political arguing amongst themselves. let me be also very clear: let us be cautious. why change the language law concerning not only the russian language but all the minority languages? that is not useful. that is a provocation which is against the european spirit. let us go back to the situation as it was before, let us not go into revenge justice. justice must be done and i hope that president yanukovych will be appearing before a court and justice can be done according to the internationally valid legal rules, because there must be justice for what happened in the maidan. to kill 80 or 90 people cannot have the result that no justice is done, but it must be impartial. let me say again: yes, we need new elections; not only for the president but also legislative elections. there must be a new team, a new parliament going into the new phase of ukraine and starting the new engagement with ukraine. there is discussion about what we should say to ukraine: let us be very honest. yes, we should say to ukraine: at the end of the road, membership must be possible because that is according to the treaties. but do not give them something now which we cannot fulfil. tell them they have to do their job; they have to reform their country; they have to fight against corruption; they have to fight against the oligarchic structures. this is what they have to do and we will have to help them; that is our obligation, to fully support them in that sense. yes, we need reforms. what we can do, what we should do: think about visa liberalisation. visa facilitation should really be implemented. let us ask the commission to make an assessment of whether it is possible: if, and when, we can go to the next step, to give the citizens of ukraine a clear message concerning their future in the european union. it will be a step-by-step process. we cannot promise things from one day to the next, but the process has to start now together with ukraine, together with the politicians of ukraine, which is absolutely necessary. let me turn to the last point about russia. i fully agree with what the commissioner said. for russia there are two ways. one is to respect realities, even if they do not like it – and i can imagine they do not like it, especially mr putin does not like it. maybe there are many russians who would like it, because they would think about some changes in their own country too, but mr putin of course would not like it. he should accept what is a reality. he could lose everything in the ukraine now. if he sends troops, if he endangers the territorial integrity, at the end of the day he may not only lose some oligarchs as friends, but the citizens, the population of ukraine. we should make it very clear: we stick to the territorial integrity of ukraine, including the crimea, including the protection of the russian crimean tatars who are there and who want to stay in ukraine and build up a new country. in that sense the appeal to russia and to mr putin is: you should withdraw the troops on the border. do you really threaten, do you want to march in? it would be a disaster. already in the past many of the activities of the military of russia have been a disaster. instead of sending troops, send interlocutors with whom you can discuss. then perhaps discuss together with the european union how together we can help financially. here you can ring friends. so, it is up to russia to decide if they want to be friends or if they want to destroy the integrity of the country. my appeal to russia is: turn back, think about it and try to be friends with ukraine and not only with some oligarchs.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if the report by human rights watch that sunni women are being brutally abused in prison to put pressure on their male relatives holds, i believe that this is evidence that they are being harassed by the shiite government. the question of belonging to the shiite or sunni group is no longer just a question of religion, but in my view a matter of a bitter power struggle in which innocent civilians are all too easily victimized. the occupation of the cities of fallujah and ramadi in anbar province fits the sunni strategy, as the province bordering the civil war-torn country of syria is almost entirely sunni. the rumour that iraq is buying weapons and ammunition from iran for nearly $200 million, circumventing international sanctions, should also be investigated quickly, in my opinion. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i would like to ask mr posselt how he actually sees the mutual tolerance of religions in iraq and what could be done here to strengthen tolerance and, above all, mutual respect.
i have to say, madam president, i'm glad we're having this debate today. it must be conducted because the capacity of intelligence services to use such instruments is increasing. just as you use snipers in venezuela, you used snipers in damascus, you used snipers in kiev, it opens up the possibility for intelligence services to use drones here. the number of civilian casualties is increasing. they cynically accept that as collateral damage. this cynicism is treacherous and shows that the values which we are supposed to protect are not really upheld. not everything you can do, you can do. this also applies to the use of drones. the military use of drones is regularly used to carry out death sentences that have not been imposed by any court but are only carried out by intelligence services. execution of death sentences, knowing that civilians innocent are also killed. to execute death sentences knowing that ultimately it is a power politics. and if the european union cannot find a clear language here, then we have no moral right to make any reservations to any country on this planet!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. public debate on the existence of fundamental rights is an important part of our work. and because the charter of fundamental rights is an essential cornerstone of the european project, i think we need this debate. but we also need a mechanism so that it is not just a debate. i think it is very positive that the data protection aspect is being addressed in several areas, because the charter of fundamental rights attaches particular importance to the protection of personal data. since the last fundamental rights report, important things have happened in terms of data protection, both in the negative and the positive sense. the revelations of edward snowden have made it clear that these rights - fundamental rights, to be clear - are being violated systematically and massively on a daily basis, without any legal basis. this is a scandal of epochal proportions. the good news is that the european parliament was prepared and able to take action. it adopted a landmark data protection package in october with great unanimity, and there was also a really exemplary treatment of these incidents in the libe committee. unfortunately, the council has not shown the same consistency. the citizens deserve to be taken seriously. the adoption of the data protection package before the elections in may would have shown the ability to act. we need not only good reports, but we also need a coherent policy!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 27 february, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the joint debate on the report by nuno melo, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the draft directive of the european parliament and of the council on the european investigation order in criminal matters (09288/2010[nbsp]-[nbsp]c7-0185/2010[nbsp]-[nbsp]2010/0817(cod)) (a7-0477/2013) and the report with recommendations to the commission by sarah ludford, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the review of the european arrest warrant (2013/2109(lin)) (http://www.europarl.europa.eu/sides/get.dooc?type=pre&tor=reference-2014-a3900l=de&l=" \tanguage"_blank" ).
i have to say, madam president, the european investigation order is a very important law in the field of police and judicial cooperation which will be adopted tomorrow. it is also an important step towards the implementation of the stockholm programme objectives. it is also worth noting that the initiative was not taken by the commission but by seven member states, including austria, the country i represent here in the european parliament. this shows once again that national and european interests are not in conflict. this is also primarily related to the fact that security added value can be achieved in this way. the inquiry order will significantly facilitate and improve cross-border prosecution in europe, as many of the current obstacles to mutual legal assistance can be removed. the inquiry order introduces automation between eu countries, making crossborder investigations faster and more effective. who should be against it? the value of such a tool cannot be underestimated, as it has often been bureaucratic obstacles that have hindered or complicated police investigations. this cannot and must not be in the interests of citizens who have a right to personal security. at the same time, we must be aware that the field of law enforcement and investigation is a highly sensitive one and that great care must be taken to ensure that the fundamental rights of the accused are respected. the protection of fundamental rights and their enshrinement in law is therefore of fundamental importance. i am very pleased that in the negotiations with the council we have succeeded in introducing a fundamental rights clause in article 10. an inquiry order may only be issued if the fundamental rights of the person concerned under the eu charter of fundamental rights and the eu treaty are not affected. in addition, we were able to ensure in articles 5 and 10 that only measures of inquiry which are also permitted under national law in the member state concerned may be applied. the investigation order has thus been placed at important limits. it is a successful attempt to prevent abuse. with our changes to the european investigation order, we as the european parliament are showing that the protection of fundamental rights and enhanced police and judicial cooperation in europe are compatible. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr melo, and all the shadow rapporteurs for their good and intensive work.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are debating today an important agreement which can be regarded as a key element in the european strategy for sustainable management of the forestry sector. the eu's voluntary partnership agreements with third countries in the timber trade are important in several ways. firstly, they ensure legal logging and processing in those third countries with which such agreements are concluded. secondly, it aims at and above all ensures the sustainable management of resources in particular and the environment in general. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. the flegt agreements should not be seen as separate agreements but as part of the european union's fight against illegal logging and, above all, the enormous negative consequences of this. every two seconds, an area of forest the size of a football field is illegally cleared worldwide. data on illegal logging is difficult to access. environmental organisations estimate that €1.2 billion worth of illegal timber is sold in the eu every year. it is estimated that this is costing timber-producing countries between eur 10 and eur 15 billion per year, which could be used for sustainable development. the problems are being addressed by agreements such as the one between the eu and the republic of indonesia. indonesia has taken many steps to move away from illegal logging and towards certified, legally harvested timber. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. but logically we must not make the mistake of measuring indonesia's success with two different standards. much has been improved, and much remains to be improved. indonesia's efforts to promote sustainability in its forestry sector are considered positive and desirable. a great deal of effort has been made to develop the forestry infrastructure and, in addition, the controls and administrative procedures. i think that the present resolution has covered the concerns of the european parliament well. we have devoted ourselves to the certification system, which could be further strengthened in the area of efficiency. we have embedded the stakeholders and stakeholder groups in the text, and thus have captured the participation of civil society. we have also looked at the impact on the environment and the indigenous population, without losing sight of the fact that the voluntary partnership agreement with indonesia can count on the support of the european parliament. i would like to thank all those involved for their cooperation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the easing of visa requirements for citizens of certain third countries requires increased security measures. in this sense, the introduction of the visa protection clause is probably a small step forward. the withdrawal agreement with ankara, which is now supposedly also in progress, may be a step towards less border permeability. on the other hand, turkey has already made it clear on several occasions that it does not really want to protect its borders with the eu sufficiently. the crux of the readmission agreement is that in return turkey has not only provided financial support and equipment for its border police, but has also rewarded its minimal consideration with visa liberalisation. it is not just the withdrawal agreement that ankara is allowing the eu to betray, or perhaps even blackmail. i think it is high time that we started negotiating a privileged partnership rather than accession negotiations and finally told the turks the truth that they will probably never be able to become members of the european union under the present conditions.
in writing. - the report calls for the creation of a common right of purchase within the eu. cross-border trade in the internal market should be promoted and simplified for consumers and businesses. the aim should be to achieve a self-contained and uniform set of rules, including contractual rules and consumer protection rules, which provide a high level of protection within the eu. the report's main thrust is good in principle, but there are still a number of unresolved issues and regulatory gaps. so far, no clear scope has been defined and a possible significant disadvantage for the consumer has been identified. i have voted against this report because of these dangers.
in writing. - today's vote is a victory for youth and health care. despite the new stricter rules, there will be no expansive packaging regulation. shocking images and warnings will make up 65 percent of the front and back of cigarette packs. eu countries now have 24 months to transpose the directive into national law. tobacco use is the greatest preventable health risk. smoking kills nearly 700,000 people in europe each year. about 94 percent of all smokers start before the age of 25. the austrian pharmacy association estimates that smoking causes up to 14,000 deaths a year in austria alone. the aim is not to restrict the freedom of self-determination of people, but to point out the risks involved. the commission has also proposed that the directive be amended to include a new definition of the term 'smoking'. tobacco is supposed to taste like tobacco. the introduction of additives such as vanilla and menthol should not make smoking more palatable. these practices of the tobacco industry, which deliberately attract young people, are therefore prohibited from 2017 and 2020 respectively. it is right to do whatever is necessary to discourage young people from entering.
in writing. - although in principle it is welcome that smoking and the negative health effects of smoking are brought to the fore and that additives are examined more closely. the european commission is going too far in its campaign against smokers. it is disproportionate to impose such a degree of control on tobacco companies over the design of their products. neither warnings nor massive tax increases will stop our youths from starting to smoke. this requires a social rethinking, which is already under way even without the brussels gangs. as regards the electronic cigarette, i think that this subject should have been dealt with in a separate directive, since it is obviously not a tobacco product.
in writing. - the tobacco products directive is to be rejected for several reasons: first of all, it should be noted that there are already enough warning labels on tobacco products. the fact that the eu is forcing such detailed harmonisation proves once again how much it meddles in the little things of everyday life: it cannot solve big problems like the crisis in ukraine. but the display of a pack of cigarettes is a matter of state. secondly, i am opposed to this directive because it interferes with the private autonomy of citizens. it is not possible to prove that shock images on cigarette packs actually deter smoking. it is therefore not justified to prohibit manufacturers from representing an established trade mark on the packaging of a tobacco product. i am a firm non-smoker, just as i am convinced that the freedom of citizens must be protected at all costs. the directive in question must also be rejected because i cannot in any way endorse the image of the eu as a consumer, which has in mind a minor citizen whose consumption the eu wants to standardise in european law. it is regrettable that the european parliament has given its approval to this body of rules.
in writing. - smoking is the leading cause of death that could have been avoided. it kills about 700,000 people a year. the average smoker in europe is 28%, while in latvia it is 36%. in europe, it is second only to greece! although the eu adopted the tobacco products directive 12 years ago and the number of smokers has fallen since then, the rate is still critically high. smoking among young people is particularly troubling. statistics show that 29% of young people aged 15-25 smoke - more than the population as a whole. smoking has a negative impact on public health and increases healthcare costs. i therefore supported the directive, which provides for targeted action to make tobacco products less attractive, thereby reducing the number of young people who turn to smoking, such as the ban on cigarettes and tobacco 'garts' and 'mazo' packs containing less than 20 cigarettes. it is also important to increase the warning requirements for smoking hazards to 65% on both the front and rear surfaces. the market for e-cigarettes has been completely unregulated until now. with the new directive, e-cigarettes sold as a means of smoking cessation will be subject to the same rules as medicines. in other cases, they will be regulated in the same way as tobacco products, and in these cases the nicotine concentration will not exceed 20 mg/ml.
in writing. - the report by linda mcavan deals with the apparently urgent need for a revision of the tobacco directive. the current tobacco directive was adopted 12 years ago and the new directive should bring in particular innovations in the labelling and packaging of tobacco products. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be allowed to adopt the same rules for the application of the rules on the free movement of goods. the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of taxation of tobacco products. this is the best and most economical option to prevent the illegal sale of tobacco products which do not comply with the tobacco directive in terms of ingredients. the report is in principle in favour of the report, but the rapporteur says that e-cigarettes should not be sold unless they are authorised as medicines, as are other products for smoking cessation. this would be a significant constraint for smokers who do not want to smoke harmful tobacco products and yet are unwilling or unable to give up nicotine products. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women.
in writing. - i think it is important that the european parliament should speak out clearly against forced prostitution and human trafficking. i think that the full criminalization of prostitution is too far-reaching. when it is said that prostitution is incompatible with human rights and the eu charter of fundamental rights, this is an exaggeration that reveals the blunt ideological background of the debate. the other eu countries, the nordic countries, which are so liberal, want to impose their views on the other eu countries with a kind of double standard. on the one hand, this is a matter for national jurisdiction, and on the other hand, criminalizing prostitution would only make the problem illegal. that is why i voted against this unfair and exaggerated report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on sexual exploitation and prostitution and its impact on gender equality. it is noteworthy that such a resolution has only made it from the committee to the plenary in the third attempt in this parliamentary term. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mary honeyball. prostitution is proven to be closely linked to human trafficking. the so-called nordic model (punishing the suitor), which has proved successful in sweden, should be extended because it has been shown to reduce human trafficking. i fully support the view expressed in recital b of the report that prostitution and forced prostitution are forms of slavery incompatible with human dignity and fundamental rights. in conclusion, i would like to express my regret at a decision of the european court of justice (ecj): tragically, in a dispute over the issue of residence permits, the court of justice of the european union in 2001 (case number c-268/99) subsumed the activity of prostitution under the term self-employment. the honeyball report should be used as an opportunity to prevent such misjudgments in future by means of clear legal provisions such as the punishment of the adulterer.
in writing. - on 17 september 2013, the commission adopted a new recommendation on the principles of solvit, which is intended to provide a framework for the development of a common approach to the problem of the protection of personal data. the imco committee decided to draw up an own-initiative report on this recommendation as the official response of the european parliament. the report concludes that solvit has proved useful and valuable for the internal market, but that it still needs to be significantly improved to become a tool to help eu citizens and businesses solve crossborder problems. the report argues that solvit should be better targeted to the needs of businesses by ensuring that more complex cases are addressed in the solvit network and by increasing the awareness of the network among union citizens and businesses.
in writing. - to ensure that the internal market benefits citizens and businesses, it is important to improve the information available to individuals and businesses on their rights in the internal market and the rules applicable in the different member states, as well as to provide them with the necessary support to solve crossborder problems. this is why solvit was set up in 2002. this is an online network for the settlement of crossborder disputes between citizens or businesses and national administrations across the eu over incorrect and erroneous applications of internal market rules. it shall apply in so far as those disputes are not the subject of judicial proceedings at national or eu level. since the report shows sensible ways of improving and developing solvit, i voted in favour of it.
solvit is a problem-solving instrument which has a very good and, above all, a very useful purpose. the single market offers many opportunities to individuals and businesses, but it also creates opportunities for errors and misapplication in a wide range of areas. examples would be: recognition of professional qualifications and diplomas, access to training and education, social security, public procurement. problems can be forwarded directly to the nearest solvit centre, where the case is reviewed and dealt with. however, in order to avoid the long wait for the person concerned, a period of 10 weeks is prescribed for the resolution of the problem. otherwise, the affected persons would have to wait a very long time before they received any response from the authorities. that is why i voted for this report and i believe that solvit has a very great potential which should be supported more intensively by the eu in order to raise awareness.
in writing. - the report presented deals with the online platform solvit, which enables citizens and businesses to resolve disagreements on internal market problems without legal intervention. the rapporteur points out that citizens are increasingly taking advantage of this programme, but that it should also be made more attractive to entrepreneurs. in this respect, the report is to be welcomed, especially since consumer protection in the eu is a matter that deserves strong support.
in writing. - of course, there is still a lot of room for improvement in administrative cooperation, including judicial cooperation within the european union. the creation of a european criminal justice area, however, goes too far and too easily interferes with areas of national competence. i therefore reject this report.
in writing. - the report recommends the abolition of the visa requirement for nationals of third countries. the report is very positive, almost blue-eyed, and the repeal is supposedly only a relief for the consumer. examples of this would be: less costs and red tape, sharing synergies, and waiting times reduced. what the report does not mention, however, are the various disadvantages which the abolition of the visa requirement may entail. known problems in third countries such as organised crime, illicit drug, arms and women trafficking. i think these are important aspects which support the idea of a visa requirement for third country nationals. i voted against this report because of these dangers.
in writing. - since the visa facilitation for moldova has already been voted on and the amendment of the entire directive was also voted on last september, this formal amendment should also be implemented. i agree with the rapporteur that with a coherent approach and clarity in the relevant directives, problems and conflicts can be effectively prevented.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's forestry policy is not disrupted by the destruction of forests. the trade in illegal tropical timber must be stopped. the agreement we have reached today marks another major victory in the fight for sustainable trade in timber with third countries. illegal trade in timber causes economic and environmental damage in the producing countries. it is estimated that illegal logging is costing timber-producing countries between 10 and 15 billion euros a year in revenue that could be used for sustainable development. the timber agreement shows indonesia's willingness to export only legal timber to europe. the indonesian government should be commended for its efforts to promote improvements in law enforcement, monitoring and cataloguing illegal logging, combating fraud and strengthening the forestry police. in total, four eu timber agreements have already been negotiated with asian and african countries. the eu is taking a leading role through its timber trade agreements. we not only promote sustainably harvested and certified wood, but also help third countries to develop their infrastructure and export economy.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the construction of the new railway line. this provides for the establishment of a verification procedure to demonstrate that timber products imported into the european union have been legally acquired, harvested, transported and exported, and that good management practices and the legal exploitation of indonesian forest areas are ensured. the present proposal is certainly a step in the right direction, which is why i voted in favour of it, although it must be clear that there are still many ways of circumventing the official procedures.
in writing. - the report by mr jadot deals with the voluntary partnership agreement between the eu and the republic of indonesia on the import of wood products into the eu. the rapporteur is rightly sceptical about the problems of the indonesian timber sector, which is characterized by corruption. it also regrets that the traceability and the almost non-existence of wood verification processes should be a cause for concern. the voluntary partnership agreement should be concluded only after a significant improvement in these circumstances.
in the case of cyprus, the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the visa regime is simplified. simplified processes for the control of persons holding visas contribute to a more efficient entry procedure. the recognition of certain documents as equivalent to national visas within the schengen member states further implements the principles of the eu and the schengen agreement, which is the basis for mobility and freedom in the union.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks arising from exposure to asbestos. the commission has also proposed that the visa requirement be abolished for nationals of certain caribbean countries and for all british citizens who are not nationals of the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland. the rapporteur believes that this proposal should be adopted as there is no security risk to the european union. in this respect, it should be carefully considered whether this is also in line with the facts and whether the proposed territories should be exempted from the visa requirement altogether. i 'm not .
in writing. - we need a roadmap for new elections in ukraine now, so that ukrainians can decide for themselves the course of their country. i call for a united position of the eu on the ukrainian question. i welcome the foreign ministers' council last week and the fact that foreign minister sebastian kurz has been working on this. all that is possible on the ground of national and international law to unite the country peacefully must now be considered. we should also use the eu money laundering directive to check whether ukrainian money is clean outside ukraine. our head of delegation, karas, is in close contact with foreign minister sebastian kurz and finance minister michael spindelegger on this matter.
in the light of the recent events in ukraine, the european union has taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in ukraine is not further complicated by the fact that the ukrainian authorities have not yet taken any action to address the situation. as we know, ukraine is a key geopolitical country in eastern europe and a key player in washington's encirclement of russia. but that cannot be the aim of the eu. whatever one's views on putin's policies, the eu must be interested in proper relations with moscow, not least because of its geographical proximity and energy supplies. the decision of a sovereign country, in this case ukraine, to take its foreign and economic policy in the direction it wishes, must also be respected. moreover, the current developments in ukraine show that a solution to the crisis will not be possible without the involvement of russia. i also have the impression that when the demonstrations in kiev began, the eu did not think hard enough about the consequences of a change of power. today we know that ukraine is on the verge of bankruptcy and the eu may have to 'jump in' with several billion euros to prevent chaos on its eastern border. unfortunately, the present motion for a resolution is completely unbalanced, which is why i am voting against it.
in the case of the former soviet union, the situation is very different. now that the first steps have been taken in the right direction, the main thing is to restore the citizens' confidence in democracy and a freely and fairly elected democratic government in their country. the most urgent need is for the powers to be shared again and for the authorities to act independently, fairly and in the spirit of human rights. as a mediator and supporter of peace and democracy, the eu is called upon to actively promote the building of a ukrainian democracy. the most important thing is that the situation does not remain a vacuum, but that the democratic idea can spread further and that a democratic government can be consolidated in ukraine. this can only be achieved through political, economic and, above all, human and social cooperation and support.
in writing. - the joint motion for a resolution tabled can be fully endorsed, since the authors make very clear the known and worrying circumstances in iraq. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union. the authors are aware of the almost unbearable human rights and humanitarian situation and this joint motion for a resolution can be adopted.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. in this respect, the eu must work to ensure that member states do not commit unlawful targeted killings or facilitate such killings by other states, in accordance with their legal obligations. the development, production and use of fully autonomous weapons, which enable military attacks to be carried out without human intervention, must also be prohibited. internationally, the eu must ensure that action is taken in accordance with its obligations under national and international law whenever there is reason to believe that a person or organisation within its jurisdiction may be associated with unlawful targeted killings committed abroad. i voted in favour of this report because it deals with this very well.
in writing. - the following joint motion for a resolution can be adopted, since it is critical of the use of unmanned armed aircraft. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. the joint motion for a resolution can therefore be welcomed.
in writing. - the charter of fundamental rights has been legally binding since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and the report voted on today calls for a more consistent use of all the legal instruments available to protect fundamental rights. it is the second such report since the lisbon treaty, and it is much more concerned with the protection of personal data than the situation of roma, migrants, asylum seekers and refugees, minorities and lgbt people. that's a big improvement, even compared to the first one. the mass surveillance of european citizens is a violation of their fundamental rights and this interference cannot go unnoticed, and the majority in the european parliament has again shown today that it is ready to draw conclusions from the recent surveillance scandals and to make the debate on respect for fundamental rights and thus also data protection a central task. the present report is a good and important step in that direction. i can fully support the calls for greater parliamentary scrutiny, the full implementation of national data protection authorities and measures at international level to prevent mass surveillance by intelligence services.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of human rights. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. in view of the circumstances, the report is quite acceptable, since it is critical of the actual human rights situation in the european union.
in the case of the european arrest warrant, the cost of the european arrest warrant is estimated at £33.4 million per year, which is already being spent in the united kingdom alone. in this context, there is no comparison at eu level of the costs incurred by the arrest warrant. the commission intends to improve the european arrest warrant system through other measures, such as legislation on procedural rights and guidelines for users. the european arrest warrant is problematic in terms of, for example, the non-compliance with the procedural rights of suspects and accused persons, poor detention conditions, alleged overuse of the european arrest warrant by some member states, lack of application of the principle of proportionality, etc. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. - the report by sarah ludford deals with the review of the european arrest warrant, the most important legal instrument of the european union. the rapporteur strongly points to the need to review the european arrest warrant, as such a review should lead to greater credibility of european criminal justice. the rapporteur also stresses the incomplete and unbalanced development of the criminal law in the eu, and in order to ensure a better balance in this respect, the european arrest warrant should be reviewed and possibly revised.
in writing. - over time, it has become increasingly important to ensure the sustainable extraction of raw materials. this will become increasingly important in the future, in order to ensure a habitable planet for future generations. that is what we must preserve.
in writing. - since february 12, 2014, students have been demonstrating all over venezuela. there was also some lethal violence. at least 13 people were killed, more than 70 injured and hundreds arrested. the government of president maduro has apparently failed to address the problems of high inflation, crime, shortages of certain basic foods, increasing corruption, and intimidation of the media and the democratic opposition. but there is also a lot of evidence that some elements of the opposition are being deliberately controlled and financed from abroad, primarily from the us, to further destabilize the situation in venezuela and overthrow the government. i am of the opinion - as i have been in other cases - that any outside interference must be rejected and that the future should be decided by the venezuelan people alone, which is why i abstained.
the situation in venezuela is extremely worrying. peaceful protesters are being attacked and freedom of expression and the press are no longer respected in the state. at the same time, media and internet censorship is taking place, so that anti-government protesters have no way to communicate with the outside world. this political situation is intolerable, democracy and respect for human rights must be restored as quickly as possible so that peaceful democratic life in venezuela, free from fear and political arbitrariness, can be restored.
in writing. - the motion for a resolution before us deals with the future of european visa policy and the rapporteurs are in favour of some improvements, including the introduction of a short-stay visa. the commission is also proposing to adapt the visa requirements to the economic and humanitarian circumstances of the member states, or at least to take them into account. in this sense the motion for a resolution can be considered conclusive, but the question of security should not be ignored. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs. the specific working conditions and requirements of this sector make it particularly important to make it more attractive to women and girls in order to ensure its survival. moreover, the past and present achievements of women who have worked and are working in this sector must be recognised and, above all, the working conditions for women must be improved. women must also have full and equal access to the sector, to the bodies and associations within the sector. the report is fully in line with the aim of sustainably improving the situation of women.
in writing. - the decision taken here is unilateral and is, in effect, just another way of charging consumers with more 'copyright taxes'. the proposal would impose additional costs on the purchase of smartphones, mp3 players, tablets, usb sticks or other electronic devices, even if consumers do not make private copies of them. it is obvious that under the guise of protecting artists, new taxes for consumers are to be introduced covertly. the question of how the distribution of the artists concerned should be really fair is, of course, open. it's much more likely that the money will go to some not-so-talented party artists or party cronies. the resolution also does not solve the problem of illegal pirated copies. the average consumer who enjoys music or movies on his or her device does not know the fine difference between pirated and private copies. this gives consumers the wrong impression that the illegal download is covered by this levy. it is obvious that i cannot agree to this motion for a resolution.
in writing. - the cultural and creative industries are one of the most important sectors contributing to diversity and cultural education and development, and promoting and contributing to transnational, transcultural and intercultural communication and exchange within the eu member states but also worldwide . it is therefore important to protect the creative property of artists so that they are not harmed by the possibilities offered by new digital technologies. but it is equally important to protect consumers from a flood of charges so that they can use the products they have purchased in all the media available to them without hindrance. it is important, above all, that member states cooperate closely and adopt a uniform copyright law for private copies, so that neither authors nor consumers are disadvantaged by the rules in each country.
i have to say, madam president, commissioner reding, thank you very much for your report. i thank president hoyer for the commitment and success story which the eib is de facto writing in this world. the capital increase is very well suited to setting new standards here, especially in the area of efficiency. we all know that the connecting europe facility on the one hand and the eib on the other are of course important drivers for europe's future competitiveness. but above all, it is also about showing with the programmes that best practice and benchmarks can, of course, also create new jobs. new jobs are created by supporting self-employment and then by the self-employed taking on the challenge of taking on the first worker, so that self-employed people, smes and workers have an important linking effect. we should therefore also look at the return on investment of the loans that are being made, whether the maturities are actually meeting the needs of those who need them and how default rates can be reduced in the future. we also see that, of course, there is a great deal of attraction in the mediterranean region, particularly in the area of renewable energy, environmental legislation and support for the implementation of these in the countries concerned. i would like to conclude by congratulating the european investment fund, which is of course an excellent complement.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mrs estrela, i would like to ask you why so few women are entrepreneurs. and what could be done to enable more women to become self-employed and then actually pay a fair wage?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. women face problems such as unemployment, precarious working conditions and wage discrimination. when will it be taken for granted that women receive equal pay for equal work and equal education? many women in the european union are also confronted with experiences of violence. when will there be a day when there are no such figures and reports as last week's report on violence against women? it must be taken for granted that equality is no longer just a wish, but a fact! madam vice-president, you have done a great deal, indeed you have always been very supportive of this subject. we can all be very grateful to you. i hope that the commission will continue to do so, that it will be self-evident to the council that it is finally aware of the need for change and change and will also take action accordingly. then we certainly don't need any more of these debates.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already done so. the headlines of the last few days or weeks have been: the eu is endangering our seeds! i should like to begin by saying: it is not the eu that is endangering our seeds, but the proposal that you, commissioner borg, are making from the commission! the other part of the eu, namely parliament, has made a great effort, has dealt with this proposal in great detail. as the shadow rapporteur of our group in the agri committee, i would like to thank all my colleagues and the rapporteur for the fact that we have really tried to correct this draft regulation. the first discussion has already started on the architecture of this proposal. the question was, in general, whether it is sensible to combine twelve past directives into one regulation which goes far beyond what the twelve directives covered. the good intentions you have so beautifully described to us today, such as simplifying the system or protecting biodiversity, are not reflected in the specific articles or are very insufficient. we do not see any real improvement in the status quo. this is countered by a new bureaucratization, contrary to what you have said. the regulation is broadly oriented towards the needs of industry and its types of industry. the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has recently launched a new initiative to promote the use of renewable energy sources. the needs of organic farming are also not sufficiently taken into account. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the president withdrew the floor.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. quote: "the main aim is to simplify and harmonise existing rules". did you say that, or is that the lobbyists? there would be a massive campaign of misinformation and accusations to discredit not only the commission proposal but the whole european seed sector. did you just say that? i know! is that literally what we got today from the largest lobbying organization? i know! commissioner, you are a lobby commissioner! you're not here to do business with anybody. and we know, to quote henry kissinger, who controls the food supply, controls the people. the way you're doing this, you're putting the power of the people in the hands of a very small number of corporations. please go.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. yes, the commissioner is a clever and intelligent man. and so i assume that he doesn't really believe what he's painted here, even himself. it is a mockery, commissioner, if you are trying to show us all that you are serious about taking us, the members of parliament, seriously. because it is a fact that already 99% of the european seed market is controlled and managed by just eight companies. it is a fact that the diversity of crops has declined by about 75% since the last century. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and let's not forget that the price of seeds - and there's no denying that - has gone up by 30 to 40 percent in the last few years. in other words, commissioner, the loss of this biodiversity is jeopardizing a balanced diet and you are supporting lobbies and are against the interests of small-scale farming and ... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i can and must endorse much of what has already been said. i would like to briefly reiterate my point of view. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if bureaucracy and costs have a negative impact on farmers, then this is again one of those unnecessary regulations which only harm our citizens. in principle, this commission proposal is the death of varietal diversity. do we really want a single meal in the seed? i think not. these regulations are not simpler. they make the farmers dependent on industry, and that is certainly not the way to go! and so i, like all the others, will reject it tomorrow!
mr[nbsp ]president, 2013 was indeed a very active year in the committee on petitions. i would like to focus on two points. as you know, it proved possible to resolve numerous issues, and i would like to mention, in particular, the cooperation with the spanish authorities during the year. they were very forthcoming and cooperated successfully in resolving the issue of the ley de costas. a lot has been achieved and we hope to continue in the same spirit. if we had had similar cooperation on our fact-finding visit to denmark, many danish and non-danish mothers, as well as non-danish fathers, would be better off by now. they need our support. there is a serious systemic and structural problem here, and i expect all of us to take a clear stand on the side of these petitioners. our people must be heard and taken seriously, and we in the european parliament should encourage their active participation.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to ask you, mr ferber: we had a hearing recently about the commission paying out 4.5 billion euros to ngos. i would like to know whether it is all right for ngos to be paid money which they themselves receive from tax havens or offshore companies, or for the commission to transfer tax money to ngos in tax havens and offshore companies. do you think that's okay?
in writing. the money laundering quagmire is now to be drained worldwide. finally, in hong kong, the owner of birmingham city football club was convicted of money laundering. meanwhile, the us is investigating two french banks. and the vatican is responding to allegations of money laundering. the money from the yanukovych clan is also being investigated for money laundering. however, as the example of mubarak's millions shows, it is difficult to prove the illegal origin of funds. the possibilities are too many, the rules are too lax, the controls are too few. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. however, the aim must not be exceeded. the italian plans to levy a 20% tax on every transfer from abroad with a reversal of the burden of proof are one such example. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the financial interests of the union. the eu must act with measure and purpose. and if you want to dry up one of the main sources of illegal income, you have to put a stop to illegal migration.
member of the commission. - mr president, i welcome the proposed decision, which was agreed at the trilogue meeting between parliament and the council on 17[nbsp ]december last year and which was subsequently endorsed by the council and by the parliament’s committee on budgets, on behalf of the commission. the rapid compromise which has been achieved will ensure that european investment bank operations outside the union will continue smoothly following the end of the existing eu external mandate, which expires on 30[nbsp ]june this year. the proposed eu guarantee will enable the european investment bank to operate effectively, in line with eu external policy priorities, in pre-accession countries in the neighbourhood and also more globally. the total size of the eu guarantee offered to the european investment bank for the period 2014-2020 will be eur[nbsp ]27 billion, plus an optional mandate of eur[nbsp ]3 billion that could be activated following a mid-term review. this is similar in size to the current mandate of eur[nbsp ]29.5 billion. the guarantee is eur[nbsp ]2 billion more than was proposed by the commission and has only been made possible following an agreement to assign additional budgetary funds of eur[nbsp ]110 million to the eu guarantee fund. mr president, i would like to highlight that this is a cost-effective way of promoting eu external policies. owing to the leverage effect of the guarantee mechanism, the total cost to the eu budget for providing the eur[nbsp ]27 billion guarantee for eib external operations is eur[nbsp ]1.3 billion over the period 2014-2020. in more concrete terms, what does this mean? it means that the guarantee will allow the european investment bank to scale up eu investment in ukraine, for example, to invest in critical infrastructure. it will allow the european investment bank to continue investing in north africa following the arab spring, including investment to promote growth and create jobs. the european union guarantee will also allow the european investment bank to continue complementing other eu operations more globally in pre-accession countries in the neighbourhood area and also in asia and latin america. moreover, the proposed decision reinforces the cooperation between the bank, the commission and the european external action service and further enhances transparency and promotes broad stakeholder consultation on european investment bank operations. the eib will promote eu policies whilst managing its operations in accordance with the principles of sound banking practices. the eu guarantee will complement the eib’s own risk operations and will add value by supporting local private sector development, in particular by providing support to smes through the development of social and economic infrastructure, including transport, energy and environmental infrastructure and information and communication technology, and through investment in climate change mitigation and adaptation.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. - mr president, i have to go. first of all, i would like to thank you for the cooperative work in our committee. i am also pleased that what we have produced has been adopted in most areas for the main report. we were certainly interested in greater clarity on the amounts disbursed, the number of loans granted, the regions and sectors concerned, so that it would be clearer where these funds are actually being invested, and to highlight, as the heart of the whole problem, that the costs and benefits of sustainable development are actually being better evaluated than has been the case so far. we have also established that the foreign direct investment supported by the eib by enterprises established in the union does contribute to economic integration between the so-called pre-listed and neighbouring countries and the union. in conclusion, i would like to say that this is further proof that, as a non-partisan member, if you are involved here, you can work very constructively in the sense of the great common ideal, and that it is by no means necessary to belong to a group, as some people are now falsely claiming in the election campaign.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. with the current capital increase of eur 10 billion, the european investment bank will surely continue to enhance its role as a growth engine. the european investment bank's strict lending criteria have so far been rewarded on the market with an interest rate of around 2% on 10-year triple-a bonds. and precisely because the eib has to raise all its money on the financial market before it can lend it to companies on favourable terms, the right portfolio is undoubtedly important. this makes a stronger focus on activities within europe desirable. this also avoids the risk of duplication and conflicts of interest with the european bank for reconstruction and development. in particular, i believe that the granting of loans to small and mediumsized enterprises, which are particularly affected by the lack of credit, should remain one of the main priorities. since eib loans often support eu funding, i believe it is all the more important to facilitate access to eu funding for smes.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i believe that the european investment bank has a great task ahead of it, especially when it comes to employment. we should also offer support to those who want to become self-employed, and especially to small and mediumsized enterprises. the internet has made it possible to do business internationally, whether in importing or exporting. and we know that jobs are being created in companies that are not more than five years old! 80% of new employment is created in enterprises that are no more than five years old. and here, i believe, the eib has a great responsibility. at present, our companies export only 13% of their gross domestic product to countries outside the european union, but these are the major growth markets. i believe that we should promote business relations between small and mediumsized enterprises in these large growth markets, because it is precisely here that competitiveness, the integration of individuals, works much better than in large international corporations, which we of course also need, because the value chain goes from the small enterprises, the self-employed, of course, to the leading international companies. and only a sensible formation of the value chain will then, of course, include qualified and good jobs. the european parliament therefore believes that we should introduce these measures here as soon as possible. this is a very important factor for our future, to be able to operate successfully internationally here, and especially in those countries which have a very low industrial rate and where unemployment is the highest, so that we can reach our target of 20% reindustrialisation accordingly. and it should start now, because we don't have much time until 2020!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we now have three quarters of an hour before the vote. we have an own-initiative report from the itre committee which deals with the ten legislative acts of the european union which prevent employment in europe, which worsen the business climate. and this is the second plenary session in which this report has not been put on the agenda. i would like to say that it is important for the countries which are suffering from high unemployment today that we discuss these ten legislative acts at european level, which are preventing employment, which are actually destroying employment in europe, pushing industry out of europe, that we discuss these matters in plenary. we need initiatives here. we know that the average gdp that industry is currently producing is 15 percent -- we want 20 percent. the european legislation needs to be improved dramatically in this area. we must have the courage to debate legislation which is hindering us in creating new jobs and to create jobs accordingly.
in writing. - the report deals with the collection of statistical data on inland waterway freight transport and the rapporteur notes that a more coherent approach would be desirable in this area. in order to better assess, inter alia, the competitiveness and profitability of inland waterway freight transport, it is therefore appropriate to make the collection of the essential statistical information compulsory. as inland waterway transport is a particularly environmentally friendly system, improvements in environmental protection can also be sought here, which is a commendable approach. in this sense, the report can be quite rightly welcomed.
in writing. - the whole process of macroeconomic imbalances (emi) is contrary to fundamental economic principles of our society. these smes are designed to prevent current account deficits among euro area member states from spiralling out of control again, leading to excessive financial indebtedness within the monetary union. that sounds plausible at first glance. but this is accompanied by the idea of using emu to punish countries which have a current account surplus. this current account surplus is created, in simple terms, when a country exports more than it imports, i.e. when its products are more in demand and more competitive worldwide. the consequences of smes are thus a penalty for competitiveness and success. similarly, successful athletes might be told to stop at the finish line occasionally and let others win so that they do not feel so disadvantaged. this is absurd and a violation of economic principles that go back to adam smith. the aim of the supplementary statistics is to extend the control and monitoring powers of smes to other socioeconomic influences, thus increasing the powers of the planned economy instrument. i cannot agree with the report because of the arguments which have just been put forward and because of the lessons of history.
in writing. - the rapporteur's recommendation is in favour of the renewal of the agreement on scientific and technical cooperation between the european community and the government of the united states of america. the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu would be a very good one, but it would be a very bad one if it were to be extended to cover the whole of the eu. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the community's financial interests against fraud is a very good one.
in writing. - the rapporteur's recommendation on the ratification of the nagoya protocol is quite understandable, since it is in favour of the conservation of biodiversity. the benefits of using genetic resources are also intended to benefit them and to provide a major financial support for the conservation of biodiversity. the first and foremost concern is to preserve the habitat which is (super) vital to our society.
in writing. - the egf is designed to provide additional support to workers who are suffering from the effects of globalisation and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. the application from spain (valencia) was examined and concerns 560 redundancies. the employment situation in the spanish textile industry has deteriorated as a result of competitive pressure following the expiry of the wto multifibre arrangement and the subsequent textiles and clothing convention. the application met all the requirements and the report was therefore approved.
i have to say, madam president, i have agreed to the legislative proposal by mr silvestri and i am glad that this parliament has rejected the commission's proposal by a clear majority. the commission has relied entirely on the whispers of lobbyists and completely ignores the fact that the people want a completely different system. this is an example of how lobbies manage to get their hands on regulations from the commission and how the public rejects these regulations. today the commissioner has shown that she has no regard for the mood of the people. so on may 25th, voters will have the opportunity to punish this commission. anyone who pursues such an outlandish policy must be punished.
i have to say, madam president, yes, i can only join you. the criticisms we have had are quite understandable, especially the small and mediumsized enterprises would be burdened with particularly high costs. in addition, the wording of the new regulation was very restrained and vague, which would have left too much room for interpretation in any event. the rejection suggests that a fundamental revision of the regulation is necessary before it can be adopted at all. it must be adapted to ensure that citizens of the union and environmental organisations can see their concerns reflected and adequately represented. the commission's proposal is therefore not surprisingly rejected, and i regard it as a real lack of respect on the part of the commission towards us, the members of parliament.
in writing. - today the eu parliament has finally rejected the seed regulation. this is a victory for reason, for the preservation of biodiversity and against bureaucracy. the commission is now clearly on the point of withdrawing the draft. your proposal was totally unacceptable. i voted against the seed plans because they would add bureaucracy and costs to the domestic farms and the farmers' seed farmers. the diversity of seeds in europe would also be threatened, and trade and exchange of rare seeds would be greatly hampered. the actual impact of the proposed legislation on smes is completely unclear!
in writing. - the existing legal structure in the seed sector is generally satisfactory. the changes now planned are not necessary to the extent planned. preserving the old varieties is part of our cultural heritage. it is important to preserve them from extinction. the proposed changes would make this almost impossible from a bureaucratic point of view. at the same time, the commission is trying to push through new genetically modified varieties in the run-up to the negotiations on a free trade agreement with the usa. this is despite the clear opposition of the member states and the european parliament, and the citizens in a large number of eu countries, to this issue, and the fact that the big genetically engineered seed companies seem to be ruining small farmers with targeted lawsuits. once again, this shows the commission's view of public opinion: nothing. you're clearly on the side of the corporations. i therefore voted against the commission's seed regulation, as did my colleague mr franz obermayr.
in writing. - i cannot agree to the importation or authorisation of genetically modified seeds in the eu under any circumstances. it violates the precautionary principle, which is fundamental in the eu. i can only guess why the commission is proposing this, but it is suspected that it is intended to be a kind of prior concession or a sign of 'goodwill' to the usa in the context of the talks on a free trade area. that would be all the more reprehensible. i therefore rejected the commission's proposal.
in writing. - on 29 april 2008, a stabilisation and association agreement (saa) was signed in luxembourg between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part. it entered into force on 1 september 2013. with a view to ensuring the effective application of the stabilisation and association agreement, the commission proposed a regulation laying down certain procedures for the application of the trade and trade-related parts of the stabilisation and association agreement. this was the approach adopted in previous stabilisation and association agreements and interim agreements with the western balkan countries. in the case of serbia, there is no reason to abstain from this practice, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - the basic idea is to avoid inconsistencies in the application of eu directives. for this reason, more coherence should be pursued in order to reduce legal uncertainty.
in writing. - in my opinion, financial stability is a condition for a stable economy. in the current economic conditions and situation, financial supervision at european level needs to be more efficient, integrated and stable. to boost growth and investments, create jobs and decrease youth unemployment we need to promote ‘financial stabilityʼ which is a ‘prerequisite of the real economyʼ.
in writing. - while the purpose of the disclosure of the principal in the case of money transfers is to prevent money laundering, the measures sought are sometimes not sufficiently far-reaching. however, the strong desire for data protection, especially in relation to the sensitive data that banks and their employees manage, can be defended.
in writing. - the amendment to the anti-money laundering directive is centred on the extension and networking of the existing company registers in the eu. so far, it is possible to build a corporate structure with a number of letterbox companies, behind which criminals can hide and tax evasion is facilitated. it is necessary that in addition to the owners, the "beneficiaries" of a company, i.e. the actual beneficiaries, must always be indicated. this is another eu measure against tax evasion, money laundering and terrorism. the real owners of anonymous company structures must be made visible and large-scale money transfers traceable.
in writing. - the new directive aims to improve the current framework to prevent the proceeds of crime from being converted into legal funds through the financial system. combating this money laundering is an important objective in the eu, both to prevent abuse of our financial system and to reduce the attractiveness of financial crime, as the money obtained illegally cannot simply be legalised and used widely. the commission proposal does, however, have a number of weaknesses which i believe have been remedied in a meaningful way in the committee responsible. this includes, in particular, the extension of the powers of undertakings to identify beneficial owners. it is not right for companies to increase their responsibility in combating money laundering, but not to increase the means and means to do so. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights. the general surveillance of the entire population can therefore in no case be the objective. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the data protection rules of the union are not uniform and that the data protection rules of the union are not uniform. the report brings these two principles into a sensible balance, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as i truly believe that the eib (european investment bank) level of financial means for investments to be made within the european union in the next programming period should be, at least, kept at the same level as in the past. in my opinion an answer to the crisis is investments; we have to be supportive of the smes’ financing and investment opportunities. the ‘engine of the economy’ must be stimulated and promoted and this can be achieved only through a supportive attitude towards investments – growth and jobs creation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's biodiversity is protected. the number of endangered species is constantly increasing. a number of legislative acts have already been adopted to protect biological diversity, but their implementation is not always easy. public or private research collections and institutes certainly play an important role in this context. the exchange of information is equally important. the proposed changes to the marketing authorization must not, however, lead to the harassment of small farmers and co. we must be sensitive here. i voted in that direction.
in writing. - the report by mrs sandrine bélier is not in principle to be opposed, since it is firmly committed to the conservation and reproduction of genetic resources. however, the 'genetic resources' in question are not defined in more detail. it can be assumed that genetically modified resources are not excluded in this report, especially since the rapporteur refers to the advantages and benefits of research involving genetic resources. however, the effects of genetically modified products on the human body are not yet sufficiently understood.
in writing. - in principle, statistical data are important for policy decisions. but this is only with measure and purpose. we must not allow our agriculture, with its small and mediumsized farming structure, to be overwhelmed by bureaucracy. the commission has long promised improvements in this area, but they have not been implemented to the extent they were promised. for the reasons i have mentioned, i cannot agree with the report.
in writing. - the proposed regulation is intended to replace the existing 2009 regulation on the trade arrangements for certain products manufactured from agricultural products. certainly some of the approximations and simplifications mentioned are useful, others are not. in general, the regulations in the agricultural sector are too complex and too geared to large agricultural complexes. i therefore rejected this report.
i have to say, madam president, i voted against both reports, against the zuber report and against the amendment by the european people's party, because this amendment is really nothing but a shortened version of the report. it's the same toxic stuff in there, especially in paragraph 27, where you're basically declaring yourself pro-life, even pro-abortion. i do not want to hide the fact that there are some good points in the report. for example, in paragraph 67, where it is made clear for the first time that prostitution is violence against women and does not constitute an occupation, as is unfortunately seen in many countries and unfortunately repeatedly claimed by the liberal side. the fact is, however, that this report is clearly intended to promote abortion throughout. the spanish colleague has made it more or less clear. i can never condone such a report. so i'm happy and pleased that it was rejected today. i also missed the witty remarks of mr lambsdorff, who had previously made a mockery of the epp group and the right-wing groups in this house. you should be aware as democrats that there are other majorities here and not get hysterical about every lost vote.
i have to say, madam president, the report presented deals with gender equality and its status in 2012. the rapporteur criticises the fact that the economic and financial crisis has reduced the equal economic and social participation of women in life and has significantly worsened the living conditions of many women. the demands to improve this situation therefore seem legitimate and understandable. i abstained in the final vote because the report, as it was then voted, no longer reflects its basic position.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. the eu's goal in the field of equality is to ensure equal opportunities and equal treatment and to eliminate all forms of discrimination on grounds of sex. unfortunately, a so-called 'women's quota' excludes men from a number of jobs, even though they may be better suited to a job than their female competitors. in political discussions it is often emphasized that women are preferred only if they are given equal opportunities. but what is really being achieved is the absolute observance of the minimum quota of women, even without equal conditions and without equal results. this means that a woman should be given preference in the job placement process, where qualifications may play a secondary role. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. moreover, it may even increase chauvinism and harassment in the workplace. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. i have voted against the report because of these and other inconsistencies.
in writing. - in the area of financial services, some measures have been taken at eu level in an attempt to curb the unspeakable speculation that has triggered the current financial and debt crisis. however, there is still no separation of investment banking from traditional banking. until this serious system error is finally eliminated, the basic problem will remain. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. - since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the committee on petitions has concentrated on consolidating the charter of fundamental rights and on the final adoption of the regulation on the european citizens' initiative. this report goes beyond the scope of an annual report on the activities of the committee on petitions in 2013 and gives an overview of the main achievements of the committee on petitions in its seventh term and outlines its new perspectives in the new european parliament. in my amendments i have attached particular importance to proposals to make the work of the committee more efficient and transparent in the future, in accordance with clearer rules. the main objective must be to speed up the procedures for petitioners considerably!
in writing. - the report on horticulture contains quite reasonable points and demands such as the strengthening of regional marketing and the reduction of bureaucracy, especially for small farms. but in its essential points it contains demands which must be strictly rejected. the aim is to open up the horticulture sector to genetic engineering in order to generate higher yields and more money. such proposals, which are primarily aimed at large agricultural factories, must be rejected. the effects on consumer health are still largely unknown. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i have to say, madam president, torture is one of the most horrific forms of human rights violations, and is particularly - but not exclusively - used in times of war. the fight against torture must be pursued, particularly in war zones, as must the fight against gender-based torture, the fight against torture of children and the fight against torture on ethnic grounds. by all means, we must speak with one voice here. it is an important principle of the european union to work for the eradication of torture, to promote and advance the establishment of peace and the respect of human rights worldwide!
i have to say, madam president, it is significant for this parliament that there are now two members left of 766. there's a zyg-fold increase in interpreters and guests. that is typical of this parliament. i just wanted to send this to the agenda. now to the report itself. i voted against this report. i also voted against paragraph 44. this report spares saudi arabia. why would you do that? if you have seen such a bestial execution as stoning, then you cannot see a partner in this country and use such gentle language. this is outrageous! imagine if russia had done something like that! how russia would be accused before the international public! this is the west's partner, saudi arabia! when paragraph 44 says that the kingdom of saudi arabia is one of the most important members of the friends of the syrian people and then in the last sentence of that paragraph accuses saudi arabia of supporting the so-called rebels, the murder gangs, the mercenaries, and calls on saudi arabia to give up this support, then that shows how contradictory this parliament is in its treatment of saudi arabia. saudi arabia and qatar are financing foreign murder gangs and mercenaries in syria, who are brutally murdering the christian minority there, but also others, ladies and gentlemen, especially the ladies who are still here, the gentlemen who have all fled. it is intolerable that parliament should make such distinctions in the treatment of states!
in writing. - the resolution on saudi arabia rightly emphasizes the many mutual relations between the country and the eu. the report also stresses the country's problematic attitude towards contacts with and financing of global terrorism. the resolution rightly calls for an immediate end to any form of support by saudi arabia. the commission is also very critical of the inadequacy of the human rights situation, particularly the situation of women. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the resolution.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am particularly concerned about the protection of employee data. so i want to focus on that now. we have now introduced article 82 which sets minimum standards for the protection of employee data. this is crucial for achieving the highest possible level of protection, which can be achieved by law or through collective bargaining. the other aspect which the report now provides for in the regulation is the explicit prohibition of blacklisting. it is precisely here that we have seen in the past appalling examples of practical action where inconvenient workers' representatives, works councils, trade unionists were blacklisted and then had no basis for existence. there's no such thing in the future. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this. that is strictly forbidden. there are other points which i do not find very pleasing, such as the fact that there is no right of participation by the employees' representatives in the appointment of the data protection officer. but overall, it is an absolute advance in terms of employee data protection.
i have to say, madam president, we know that the current data protection directive has many loopholes. it is also, unfortunately, implemented differently in the various member states. that's why we have different rules. the law of the place where the data are processed is the law of the place where the data are collected. the us it companies in particular are exploiting these gaps. they settle where implementation is very slow, especially in ireland. these gaps must be closed. we therefore need a high level of protection for all forms of data processing. the rules must also apply to processors in third countries when they handle european data. if the purpose of a data processing scheme is to be changed, this may only be done with the consent of the data subjects. the commission has again incorporated many delegated acts. this too must be rejected, because it jeopardizes legal certainty. finally, we need deterrent and high penalties, otherwise the whole of the union's data protection system will be left toothless!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the main question we have to ask ourselves is: what are the consequences of the mass data-grabbing, of the uncontrolled surveillance that has taken place? i am against the phantom debates that are sometimes held here when people are debating whether or not to grant asylum to snowden. i am also against the idea of simply trying to abolish instruments which have been used successfully, such as swift or pnr. these are the tools we need in the fight against terrorism. what i am in favour of is concrete measures - concrete measures to protect europe's citizens, europe's industry, science and research from espionage and misuse of data. i therefore have two very specific proposals which i would ask you to support, particularly those on the left of the house. the first is that we should invest in the strategic strengthening of europe's it infrastructure. i think there's a match here. and the second is to invest in building a european counterintelligence system. that is to say, cooperation between the services of the member states to protect european research and european industry from the access of third countries' intelligence services, such as china, russia and the united states. this is the protection of the european economic centre, the protection of the jobs we need here. we should do that. and i appeal to all those on the left in this house to support this epp amendment - that is amendment no 8 to paragraph 124 - and to support it. i would also like to appeal to the council to take steps to build up this anti-espionage defence!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the commission and council, ladies and gentlemen of the house! mr pirker, of the övp, you said at the beginning that the debate on asylum for edward snowden is a phantom debate. mr. speaker, edward snowden is not a ghost! edward snowden is a man who has shown great courage, who has risked his life, who can no longer live where he has lived, who has risked and had the courage to expose this scandalous mass surveillance which affects all european citizens, yes, including government members, including companies, to bring it all to light. he's paying for it now, he's in russia, he doesn't know what's going to happen to him. and so it is quite legitimate that we should be here tomorrow to put the motion. and i hope that the members of this house, especially those from the groups which support this critical attitude in principle, will agree tomorrow that we call on the member states to grant mr edward snowden asylum in order to protect him, to protect his privacy, because he too has a privacy and that should also be protected for what he has done in bringing this scandal to light. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i have of course said quite deliberately that this is a phantom debate. my question is whether mrs lunacek does not know who is in charge of a person's asylum. it's not politics. it is not the policy of any of the member states. there is a corresponding asylum authority in every country, which checks whether someone is granted asylum or not on the basis of objective criteria. we do not have the authority here - and neither do other governments - to decide whether or not to grant asylum, as you are being asked to do. it is the sole responsibility of the authorities to check whether asylum is granted or not. that is why it is and remains an asylum debate. and we should think about other practical consequences for the protection of european citizens, for the protection of european industry.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. mr pirker, you are well aware that governments can also grant asylum in exceptional cases. that's right! and the other: if not asylum, then there would also be the possibility of giving mr snowden, as a whistleblower, which he is, witness protection and bringing him to an eu country. that's the other way. so where there is a political will, there is a way! and this is not, as i said, a phantom debate! this is about mr. snowden, and not just our privacy. it's about the privacy of all citizens!
answer to a question on the procedure for the 'blue card' to sophia in the field. the honourable member is aware that not only the netherlands but all eu countries have extradition agreements with the usa. and mr. snowden knew very well - he's a very informed man - that all states have these extradition treaties. so he did not go to any european country but to russia. he could have gone to china or anywhere. if he comes here, the states will do what is in accord with the treaty: a court will review whether or not an extradition takes place. and assume that there will be no reason not to extradite snowden to the united states. mr snowden knew that too, which is why he didn't come here. i would not recommend mr snowden to come to the european union because then these extradition agreements would take effect. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. yes, short answer: if the courts review and in that review they find that there is a threat of torture or death penalty, then those courts will act so that this person is not extradited. that is also the task of these courts.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the debate in this house is very important and perhaps even historic. we would not be leading them if it were not for edward snowden, who risked his personal existence to alert the world to the fact that a central fundamental right, the right to privacy, is being systematically and unbearably violated on a massive scale by our most important ally and by individual member states. it is good that we are concerned about this and do not close our eyes to reality. unlike most national parliaments, we are having this debate. we are not just doing it because we have to correct the wrong developments, we are doing it because we have a responsibility to the future generation. i don't want my grandson growing up without privacy. i don't care if it's being violated for state reasons or for commercial interests. we still have the opportunity to intervene in a corrective way. the nsa report and the privacy package passed by this house by an overwhelming majority prove our competence. it is high time that the member states recognised this opportunity and abandoned their blockade policy. the question of edward snowden's asylum is also part of this context. he himself said in his letter yesterday that he had applied for asylum in several member states. i would like to thank claude moraes for his excellent work and also the shadow rapporteurs. with this report, the european parliament shows where it stands, namely on the side of citizens and their fundamental rights.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. - madam president! - what is it? commissioner, you have said it: what is the cost of not having a european public prosecutor's office? hundreds of millions of euros, plus or minus 500 million euros, that's a proud award! why is that? there are only five cases where we've had a guilty verdict so far. in this respect, there is a very, very strong case for us to establish the european public prosecutor's office, an effective protection instrument to combat fraud effectively. however, there are serious obstacles, as the yellow card shows, from a small number of member states i.e. 14 in total . in my opinion to the legal affairs committee, i paid particular attention to the relations between the european public prosecutor's office and olaf, eurojust and europol. there is a lot to be done to ensure that we have a coherent legal framework. in this respect, a very clear yes to the european public prosecutor's office, but a realistic view shows we still have a long way to go.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to speak to mr belder right away. some thought it was the murdered berkin elvan. i would like to commemorate the murder of the german protestant tilmann geske. he is one of the three men named by mr belder. they were tortured for hours. and in the end, they cut their throats. a most savage crime! not punished, not until today! the killers are still out there. this is the turkey you want to bring into the european union! - thank you. this turkey, where you let everything go! all of it! the situation has worsened since the last debate in turkey with this so-called justice law, with the so-called internet law. it gets worse every year! you let this turkey go through everything! if this were happening in russia, there would be riots here. with turkey, none of that matters. why would you do that? because you are putting morality under the yoke of your strategic interests and under the yoke of your economic interests. that is the moral of this european union! it's always about who does what. then suddenly there is no morality. turkey is not part of europe, it will never be part of europe. and if the only people in this european union will be the austrian people, but i guarantee you that the austrians will reject this accession in a referendum in any case!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the single sky is a fascinating idea, but unfortunately it has not been possible to implement it in the member states. why would you do that? it was seen as a drawing board idea, so to speak. some member states felt that they should not give up their national airspace, that it was theirs and no one else could look in. this was clearly the reason why the implementation of these functional airspace blocks was relatively slow or not at all in the form envisaged by the commission. but progress was being made. there is now better cooperation, better organization, delays have actually been reduced in many areas, routes have been shortened - albeit by other measures - and military exclusion zones have become somewhat less and somewhat more open. the commission has, however, gone a little too far in the matter of separation. the transport committee has also rejected this. i would have crossed it out completely because it's a purely ideological question. the issues related to the separation of services need to be examined carefully on a country-by-country basis. delegated acts have become an obsession for the commission. i often see it as a back door to circumvent democratic control.
in writing. we are voting tomorrow on a little-noticed subject which could have far-reaching consequences. the so-called fluorinated gases - i.e. refrigerants, solvents, insulating gases, foam propellants and aerosol propellants - used in a wide range of industrial sectors are to be replaced in the long term by climate-friendly alternatives. why would you do that? fluorinated gases contribute up to a thousand times more to global warming than co2. their use increased steadily when cfcs and other ozone-depleting substances were banned by the montreal protocol in the 1980s. in 2011, the share of 'f-gases' in the eu-15 greenhouse gas emissions was already 2.2%. with the expected increase in demand for refrigerants in developing and emerging countries, more and more fluorinated gases are expected to enter the atmosphere and heat the climate over the next decades. i therefore support the compromise for a phased-out timetable, which would prohibit particularly climate-damaging f-gases in stationary refrigeration systems from 2022 and in stationary air conditioning systems from 2025. we have also introduced a review clause for the pricing and auctioning of allowances. in the interests of our climate, i would therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of this compromise. thank you, sir.
in writing. the directive to facilitate the exercise of the rights of mobile workers in the eu is an important step towards creating fairer and more transparent conditions. we cannot accept that workers who work in another eu country than their own are worse off than their own citizens. the principle of 'equal pay for equal work at the same place' must always apply. this directive brings some important improvements, such as easier access to information and legal support for mobile workers. it is particularly important to me that the strong role of the social partners and the need to respect collective agreements have been highlighted. in the same breath, reference should be made to safety and health at work and the need for effective labour controls to ensure that the law is enforced accordingly. my demand that employers provide comprehensible wage statements and working time records in the event of a court case was not accepted in the negotiations with the council. nevertheless, the new directive brings clear improvements for the workers concerned, including the so-called frontier workers. in addition, member states still have room to create the most favourable conditions for mobile workers as they implement the directive.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i think we should be more realistic. citizens in europe express disappointment, disillusionment and sometimes even disgust when they think about europe. they perceive europe as an empty shell – as a cold bureaucratic machine. i must say that what i have heard today from the council and the commission does not counter this perception. mr president of the council, you spoke about guidance. where is the guidance of the council and where is it guiding us to? it is not clear to the citizens and it is not clear to us. there will be another european council, and it will be business as usual. if you look at the conclusions, it will be business as usual. there will be some hollow and rather meaningless conclusions, some vague commitments and a search for the lowest common denominator. still there is a neo-liberal cloud which is preventing the council from seeing the reality: for example, the enormous social problems we have in europe. we are one the richest continents – or the richest continent – but the income and wealth distribution are growing more and more unequal. you spoke about the skilled labour which is needed. why, then, are so many young people leaving countries like spain, portugal or even france? yes, there are some mismatches between skills and needs in the economy, but regardless of these mismatches, there are not enough jobs in europe. this is the problem we are facing in europe and we have to tackle it. if you compared the eurozone with the united states of america, you would see that – while not everything is good in the us – the us had growth of 2.4[nbsp ]%. we in the eurozone had 0.5[nbsp ]%. the us has an unemployment rate of 6.7%, while the eurozone has nearly double that unemployment rate. us inflation is at 1.6[nbsp ]%, but in the eurozone it is only 0.9%. some still think our problem is inflation, but our problem may be deflation, and not enough is being done against deflation. the eu unemployment rate was 11[nbsp ]% in january[nbsp ]2014 – the same as in 2013. where is the big improvement many people speak about? gdp grew by 0.1[nbsp ]% last year. where is the improvement? on the subject of young people: yes, there are many young people who are innovators, who are researchers or who want to create new start-ups. but what is the council doing against the brain drain? many countries today are experiencing a brain drain, and the european union is taking no action to keep our best people in europe and provide them with jobs. there the council and the commission fail totally. what the people want is some vision on how europe should be developing, or at least some concrete measures. regarding the ftt, which is high on the agenda at least of the countries concerned, there has been nothing on this here until now. on tax evasion: in germany alone there is one man now on trial in court, and this one man seems to have evaded tax to the tune of more than eur[nbsp ]20 million through speculation in switzerland. yes, it may be eur[nbsp ]27[nbsp ]million, but it is certainly more than eur[nbsp ]20 million of tax evaded by just one man. what is the council doing against tax evasion? how can you not take steps with regard to the two countries that still are resisting pressure to do something to combat tax evasion? again there is a lack of courage, of vision and of guidance. people are disappointed, and yes, this is the reason why mr farage may have some success – not that he has any answers. he has no answers. but when mainstream politics fail, populists may win even without answers or proposals. what we have today in europe resembles surrealist politics, and this reminds me of samuel beckett when he says ‘try again, fail again, fail better’. unfortunately, we have no time to fail better, and the commission does not even try to do it. the president of the commission spoke about 2020. we already know that we are missing the targets, as is also the case with the lisbon targets that we are missing. mr[nbsp ]daul was committed to saying that we are against binding targets, because the council and the member states are not truly ready to move towards fulfilling the 2020 targets, especially on the environment and energy, and i will come back to that later. so what we need – and we are capable of doing this – is to act quickly, firstly with the banking union. what mr schäuble said yesterday was very interesting. i am not a fan of the intergovernmental method, but he is proposing something which is highly intergovernmental, so that is not serious. either you are for it or you are against it, but do not propose something that you are not a fan of. this is not very clever politics. as regards a real fight against tax evasion, as i have already said, it would be good if next week the council could say that we are now united in fighting tax evasion. however, i do not see this happening. of course, a fairer distribution of income would also give more money to those who would spend it and create new jobs, especially green jobs. our group last week had a very successful conference on progressive economics with joseph stiglitz, jean-paul fitoussi and others. they showed that there is an alternative to austerity – an alternative which is reducing debt better than austerity. it is a policy of growth, of creating jobs and of creating incomes. this is what we are fighting for, and it should be the task of the commission and the council to go for it. then we will also be able to fulfil our 2020 climate goals or the 2030 climate goals – whatever you want to do. environmental policy and climate policy can only be carried out by sensible and high-quality green growth. this is what we are calling on the council to do, and i hope that for once the council next week will give a positive message to the citizens of europe. (loud applause)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. you have indicated today that the summit will deal with european industrial competitiveness and energy and climate issues, as these areas need to work together. i think there's a lot more to this than just interaction. i am convinced, unlike mr daul, that a sustainable, progressive and, above all, ambitious climate and energy policy will ensure the long-term survival of european agriculture, but above all, it is a prerequisite for a europe of employment and prosperity. only the energy transition and investment in people's quality of life can safeguard existing jobs and create new ones. sustainable development means that the present generation meets its needs without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. but if we do not meet the needs of the present generation to invest in education, growth, employment and social security, we are harming the present and future generations!
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, president barroso mentioned again the eur[nbsp ]11 billion, and i want to commend the commission for having found the money so quickly. when we asked in recent months for money for syrian refugees or for any other issues that were also urgent, the answer was always: there is no money. so let us hope that what is now promised to the citizens of ukraine is real money. secondly, i think we should also get the money back from the frozen assets, because it is very important to have the frozen asset money going back, including from the oligarchs who are now the new favourite oligarchs in the country. it is good that they are now the new governors, for example, but it is also important that those people in ukraine who have a lot of money, or have their money outside the country, go back and put the money back into economic development. thirdly, i think it is very important to have elections very soon for a new president and a new government – a broad government, i would hope, representing all the different citizen groups in the country – because the long-term engagement of the european union should only be concluded with a long-term government which has been elected and tried to involve all citizens from whichever majority or minority they come from. my next point is about russia. i think what russia is doing is not at all acceptable – we will come to that in a minute. but how strong are we vis-à-vis russia? when commissioner oettinger said that we have to interrupt negotiations about south stream, why are we negotiating about south stream? why was it possible to kill nabucco, for example: why did we accept? why did some member states agree to bring back russian gas into it and not gas from other countries? why, two or three weeks ago, did mr orbán sign a nuclear arrangement with russia? so we would have been in a much stronger position – as we discussed this morning – if we had had a clear policy of industrial independence. we have the report – i had many disagreements with mr saryusz-wolski, but we wrote a report in the committee on foreign affairs on an independent energy policy. why was it not accepted by the council and promoted by the commission? we would have been in a much better position today vis-à-vis russia. concerning the referendum, it should be very clear that this is not a legitimate referendum. all the referendums we have seen in the past have been totally different. whether in east timor, south sudan or in scotland in the future, referendums are held on a legal basis with international observers and no military putting pressure on the national assemblies. russia cannot say that this is about the will of the citizens of the crimea. no, the referendum is enforced – already now they are saying what the outcome of the referendum will be. there is no doubt about it, because it is under duress. so let us be very clear to russia. there is no possibility of accepting an ... (the president cut off the speaker)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the situation in ukraine is, of course, a gordian knot from a european point of view. no matter which direction kiev takes, there will always be a part of the country that is dissatisfied or even feels overwhelmed. so if we want a solution and if we do not want ukraine to become a permanent crisis centre on the eastern periphery of the european union, we must find a solution in which all parties cooperate. the european union must be able to play a leading role in the negotiations on the future of the european union. we have to assume that anything is better than bloodshed, anything is better than civil war, anything is better than war. there is of course - we are thinking of kosovo, we are thinking of czechoslovakia - a possible territorial change. it must be possible to avoid war or civil war. the interests of the west-oriented ukrainians must of course be considered, as must the interests of the east-oriented russian population. anything is better than another cold war. a title like "russia's invasion of ukraine" already suggests that we are in such a cold war. we should avoid that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president, i would like to ask you, mr kourkoulas, what would your government have done if, during the protests of the greek people against the measures of the troika, russian politicians had appeared before the athens parliament and incited the people there against the european union, against the european central bank and against the imf? (unintelligible reply) i'm not going to. that's what you did in kiev! you incited the ukrainian people against russia! you knew the composition of crimea, you know the ethnic composition of eastern ukraine! and yet you violated the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of another country! that is also a principle of international law, even if you do not like to hear it. there is also the principle of self-determination under international law. what was true in kosovo must also be true in crimea! you know the ethnic composition of crimea very well. i don't know why you're ignoring this. and all those who are shouting "boo" today are those who want to take responsibility for a war tomorrow! will you take responsibility for that? this situation there can change from a cold war to a hot war at any time! who will take responsibility for this? (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. - the report said that it was becoming more important to have a missile shield as more and more nations had ballistic missiles with nuclear warheads. but in fact there has been no change in the threat to europe, because those changes in nuclear power which have taken place recently include countries and their missiles which cannot reach the european territory of the union in any way. this missile shield essentially has only one real target. it represents an attempt by nato to provoke russia to give nato another justification for its existence. without a common enemy, a military alliance is largely meaningless. after the collapse of the warsaw pact, there were many attempts to present/provoke russia as an opponent again, since nato had no clear opponent since then. this would further justify the existence of nato and allow for higher military spending and lucrative contracts. the missile defense system is, contrary to official representation, in fact clearly directed against russia in form and orientation, is militarily highly unreliable, destabilizes geopolitically eastern europe, violates the provisions of the salt treaties which clearly prohibit such defense systems on the grounds of destabilizing the nuclear balance and thus represents more of a threat than a help to world peace. that is why i voted against the report.
in the case of the french and german governments, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's food supply is not affected by the crisis. in addition, catering has become an essential part of tourism. for the past few years, forms of healthy eating have become increasingly important in modern society. in fact, poor or improper nutrition is the main cause of such ailments as obesity, anorexia, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and gastrointestinal disorders. it is therefore essential to provide adequate education and culture on healthy eating.
in the case of the european union, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the data protection rules are applied in the member states. not only the nsa, but also intelligence agencies in europe collect a huge amount of data about their citizens. in this sense, some of the developments of recent years are highly worrying. for example, the transfer of banking and flight data, where the us always puts pressure on eu member states in the name of fighting terrorism. many private entrepreneurs are also avid data collectors. so data protection needs to be broadly based. the present report is a correct, albeit tentative, step. i cannot therefore agree with him unreservedly.
in writing. - the age of existing regulations and the revelations of nsa interceptions have made it too late to refocus and revise data protection in the eu. the amendments proposed in the report are the result of a long struggle against massive (us) lobbying and for the citizens. the level of data protection is being raised de facto, oversight and control opportunities for citizens are being improved with uniform standards, surveillance is being left to national authorities and strong penalties are being introduced for infringements by companies. this is only a small part of the innovations. in essence, it was a mammoth achievement to create a flexible law that also takes into account the continuous innovations in this innovative business environment, and to set a clear and hard line that cannot be interpreted at will. i think the rapporteur has succeeded to a large extent in this. the nsa scandal and its consequences were also taken into account in the text of the law. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - the pericles 2020 programme promotes cooperation between national, european and international authorities to combat euro counterfeiting in europe and worldwide. some eur 500 million of damage has been caused by counterfeiting since the introduction of the euro in 2002, although the euro is a currency that is particularly rarely counterfeited. projects funded under the pericles programme include support for information exchange activities such as conferences, seminars and workshops. technical, scientific and operational support measures are also needed. i voted for the report because counterfeiters and financial fraudsters cause enormous economic damage. in future, the fight against money laundering must be stepped up and penalties increased significantly.
in the context of the european neighbourhood policy, the caucasus countries are also being involved in an attempt to bring them closer to the eu and to negotiate agreements with them. the visa facilitation with azerbaijan is, in my view, another wrong move in the eu's immigration policy. not only is the caucasus generally a crisis zone, unpredictable in geostrategic terms, and it opens the door to the already fragile european labour market for azerbaijanis, but this agreement is also promoting conflicts of interest, e.g. with the russian federation. that is why i voted against this motion.
in writing. - the consumer is still too easily misled about the contents of food. for example, the packaging may boast of natural flavours, which are only revealed to be artificial when the list of additives in the fine print is carefully deciphered. such practices further undermine consumer confidence. nanotechnology is used to manipulate substances at the atomic or molecular level. the consumer should be aware of this and be able to make a purchase decision accordingly. nanomaterials can be used not only in food packaging material but also in food production. therefore, it is important that foods containing engineered nanomaterials are also specifically labelled. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's airspace is not affected by the effects of the single market. shortened flight routes reduce environmental impact and flight times. the benefits to citizens take precedence over the maintenance of the acquis of national air traffic control. the airspace in europe is now being organised more efficiently and in a more modern way. there is no valid argument for maintaining the current fragmentation of up to 60[nbsp]control centres across the eu. the number of flights is expected to increase by 50 percent over the next 10 to 20 years. the inefficiency of airspace fragmentation has so far caused additional costs of eur 5 billion per year for customers and airlines. we must not destroy meaningful eu projects that bring tangible benefits to citizens by lagging implementation and national compliance with the acquis. i call for the swift implementation of the reform package. the member states are now in charge!
in the case of the european parliament, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. the new rules are intended to help prevent problems with online bookings in particular. the amendments in this respect are welcome. the problem is the handling of insolvencies of tour operators. i think that a different approach is more sensible and that is why i did not approve the proposal.
in the case of the european space agency, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european space agency is able to provide the necessary information to the public. i hope that this will not only be economic but also strategic and ecological. by monitoring the oceans and atmosphere, we can collect data on the effects of climate change in europe to guide targeted responses. copernicus will also make it possible to predict earthquakes or floods more accurately. europe must become independent of other satellite navigation systems such as russia's glonass or america's gps.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the whole resolution is based on an almost paranoid russophobia. russia is treated as an enemy here. this has been the policy of the european union all along, and then you are surprised to find yourself faced with a pile of diplomatic rubble. and that's what we're facing now! and this diplomatic wreckage cannot be repaired by the warmongering rhetoric which has been heard here today and which is reflected in this report. that's how you escalate! if you want to de-escalate, you cannot pass such reports. that is why i voted against this report, out of a deep conviction and out of a desire to preserve peace - peace on this continent, which means coming to terms with russia - out of a deep conviction and as a peacemaker.
in writing. - the eastern partnership, which, within the framework of the european neighbourhood policy, aims to bring some of the neighbouring countries closer to the eu, is a project of particular urgency. while it is certainly in the eu's interest to maintain good relations with the countries mentioned in the report, there is a clear conflict of interest with russia. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the report also seems to me to contain a very high potential for tension with the russian federation, which is further exacerbated by the current situation in ukraine. i have voted in favour of this because of these facts.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have agreed with the moraes report, but i would like to make a few comments. first of all, i regret that mr snowden is not granted asylum in europe. he is a classic case of asylum: he is threatened with an unfair criminal trial in america, he cannot expect a fair trial there he would be a classic case of asylum! europe is going down on its knees to the americans! secondly, paragraph 114 cannot explain the importance of the transatlantic partnership when this transatlantic partner is conducting mass surveillance not only of politicians but of ordinary citizens. if russia did that, would number 114 be what it is now? would you also say that you want a european partnership in the face of the global challenge of strengthening the eu-russia axis? russia would be put on the dock. this disparity of treatment is not justified!
in the light of the recent developments in the field of the internal market, the commission has decided to propose a new regulation on the internal market for telecommunications services. instead of complaining about each other's spying, europe must work together to build a viable counter-espionage force. only a strong, uniform and bureaucratic-free eu data protection law is the answer to the systematic breach of the privacy of eu citizens. at the same time, the new data protection law only applies if the data is stored on servers in the eu!
in writing. - the scandal of us intelligence services' surveillance in the eu in the context of nsa operations, and the revelations of the misuse of data of various civil and state bodies, including by european intelligence services in the context of the so-called fight against terrorism, have deeply shaken citizens' trust in their governments, in the functioning of democratic institutions, in respect for the rule of law and in the security of it services and communications. to counter this, it is of the utmost priority to establish control bodies that identify and combat such unlawful surveillance in advance, ensure it security in the eu and respect fundamental rights, in particular freedom of expression. that is why i voted for this motion.
in writing. - based on the green paper on 'preparing for the full convergence of the audiovisual world', this ini report focuses on issues related to the progressive convergence of linear and non-linear audiovisual media services. the convergence raises issues of consumer, youth and data protection, but also of safeguarding diversity, access and discoverability, the regulatory framework and the dual character of the media as a cultural and economic asset. the aim must be to review the existing regulatory framework for audiovisual media in relation to its regulatory objective and, if necessary, to adapt it to today's realities in converged markets.
in 2010, the european commission presented its first report on eu citizenship and announced 25 measures to ensure that citizens can exercise their rights in everyday life. however, despite the considerable successes of the european institutions, obstacles remain, as we saw in the commission's public consultation on eu citizenship launched in may 2012 and in the 2013 eurobarometer surveys. the citizens' dialogues launched by the commission in the context of the european year of citizens provide further insight into citizens' concerns. in the 2013 citizenship of the union report, the commission presents 12 new actions in six key areas to improve the practical application of the rights of union citizens. in my role as epp shadow rapporteur, i have particularly stressed the importance of citizenship of the union for the functioning of the internal market and the need for more information and education in schools on eu issues. it is also important to strengthen cooperation between regional and local authorities to improve the implementation of the rights of eu citizens, and to create a european public in the run-up to the eu elections by creating european media networks and activities, so that genuinely european issues are at the forefront of the eu election campaign!
in writing. - of course, there is also a great deal of room for improvement in the area of cooperation between the judicial authorities of the eu member states. the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office, on the other hand, goes too far and too easily interferes with areas of national competence. i therefore reject this report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against this so-called progress report because there is no progress at all. on the contrary, everything that has happened in turkey in the meantime - the judicial laws, the internet laws, the corruption cases, i don't want to list them all - everything shows that there are setbacks, and massive setbacks. the report also has other shortcomings: the armenian problem is not mentioned in any syllable. not only does turkey still refuse to recognize the genocide, it also refuses to open the borders to armenia. the next point that is missing is that any reference to the persecution of christians in turkey will be avoided. turkey has just released three killers who killed christians. one of them is a german, by the way. this is mr tilmann geske, who was tortured for hours, and then they cut his throat. the killers are still out there. this is the turkey you want to bring into the european union. - thank you. i therefore support the immediate termination of the accession negotiations with turkey. i repeat, ceterum censeo: turkey is not europe and turkey will never be part of europe!
in writing. - the 2013 progress report on turkey once again shows the glitzy way of turkey's accession. but the fact that turkey's accession is not supported by the majority of the population, not only in the eu but also in turkey, is not mentioned in this report. the fact that turkey is referred to as part of europe and thus of the eu for certain geostrategic and economic purposes of the west, obscures the fact that the eu will face problems if the country joins. the commission has also been active in the field of immigration policy, and has recently launched a new initiative to combat illegal immigration. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. for these reasons and more, i voted against.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the european parliament, as the heart of european democracy, as the house of the european people, is sending a very strong signal with these reports. we trade, we move, we get in. we analyse, evaluate and question the work of the troika as an intergovernmental instrument of the european union in the member states. let me say this in principle: we believe that any intergovernmental action, whether necessary or not, whether successful or not, always has some shortcomings: it lacks a foundation in community law and therefore cannot enforce fundamental social rights, civil rights, freedoms and the charter of fundamental rights. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. sometimes the only way to do that is to change the contract. i am grateful and proud that these reports can be presented two months before the elections with such a broad support in the population and in this house. the danger of ideologisation and mutual blame has been replaced by a report on objective evaluation and short, medium and long-term future action. i thank the secretariats, the staff and all the colleagues who have helped us in the travels, in the committee, in the meetings within and outside the committee to draw up 52 compromise packages from 915 amendments which have received a two-thirds majority in the committee. ladies and gentlemen, what was the starting position? the situation is the most difficult financial, economic and social crisis since the second world war. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. without a rapid and decisive act of solidarity, a political crisis of a magnitude greater than that of the 1930s could have been avoided. the union was not institutionally, legally, politically and financially prepared for such a crisis. the only institution that was able to act was the international monetary fund. there was therefore no basis in primary law and therefore no alternative to an intergovernmental solution such as the troika. the primary objectives of the programmes were to avoid a disorderly default of several member states and to prevent the break-up of the eurozone. these two key objectives have been achieved! the situation today is that economic recovery is being felt in all countries and, hopefully, unemployment will fall sufficiently from next year onwards. we have pointed out in this report - and i conclude - the contradictions in terms of competence, the different democratic legitimacy, the lack of involvement of the population, the different decision-making and opinion-forming processes, all the details. but we have turned our attention to the future and in the medium term we are calling for rules of procedure, we are calling for a growth task force, we are calling for a plan b and we are calling for a study by the commission on the economic and social impact of austerity measures. in the long term, we want a european monetary fund based on community law, democratically legitimized by this house, controlled by this house, and the idea of launching our own law on the prevention of state bankruptcy, because the lack of mechanisms for acting in a european manner when states are facing insolvency was part of the inability to act and the loss of credibility among the population. i would ask you all to give your consent to this report and thank all those involved.
i have to say, madam president, first of all, i would like to compliment the rapporteurs. they have produced a report which can be read and, if one can read it, interpreted. the figures 48 to 63 are particularly illuminating, both in terms of analysis and in the field of the only solution. the institutional dimension and democratic legitimacy are at stake. the term 'fire brigade' has been used a lot for the troika. yes, she was. yes, it was also a government of emergency in some form. it has prevented a certain kind of distress, namely complete disintegration, but at the same time it has created new distress. the troika fire brigade was extremely partisan, it protected the financial palaces far too much and at the same time the leftists did indeed create poverty. but of course mr theurer and the liberals are right again: the debt was there before. what we can see from these figures is that without the democratization of decision-making at european level, it will not and cannot work. it can only work at the european level. that is the very great challenge we are facing now. because at the same time, we see that we need firefighters. but we also have to know that we will always need firefighters if we fail to break up the big banks, introduce the separate banking system and raise equity ratios so that the disasters that have happened can never happen again. i'm very worried about the election on the 25th. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
i have to say, madam president, i shall now proceed to that debate. you see how contradictory that is. everyone has praised how great these programs are, and you yourself say that the national debt has increased because of these programs! not just in italy, in ireland, you can look everywhere! public debts have gone up everywhere. is that the success of this program? you can see how contradictory this is. the troika has done nothing but buy time by borrowing and by passing the burden of debt, liability and risk onto the taxpayer. this is all you've got! you could have used any donkey, you don't need a troika! i say to you that this policy simply ignores the fact that nothing has changed structurally - nothing - but simply continues with the methods of the past! and now the madness gets system! the ecb's omt programme has already failed, and it has failed at the german federal constitutional court. you will see in the coming weeks that the german federal constitutional court has thus removed the most important prisoner from the programme. you'll see how quickly this system will collapse. the euro is not salvageable in this form. you know that, and anyone who says otherwise is either saying it against better knowledge or believing in a chimera.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i signed up before i heard your message. but now i really know why i volunteered. i think that in many areas we should be careful that the term 'people' is perhaps removed from the name of the people's party, because people may no longer play any role in your deliberations, which i hear here today. we need a policy that helps to secure europe's economic position. only what is happening today is not the root of evil, but it continues the evil! if people are not employed, if people cannot contribute to earning a living, then no purchasing power is created.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mr karas, mr liem hoang ngoc and mr cercas in particular, who have written their reports with great responsibility. you see, commissioners, when an institution with democratic legitimacy, such as the european parliament, is involved with such different geographical, but above all political, backgrounds, the result is fundamentally different from when a troika, this troika, is finally working its way through. there are principles that firefighters should follow when extinguishing fires, for otherwise the damage caused by the extinguishing water will be greater than that caused by the fire. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social dialogue is not disrupted, and that the social dialogue is not disrupted.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to go. i would like to ask all members, and especially the public, to read the reports at the end of this debate. the reports presented are more objective, more nuanced, more balanced, more analytical and more forward-looking than the debate or the various speeches we have heard in the last three and a half hours. secondly, i would ask that we not lose sight of the overall context, the context, the scale of the crisis and the lack of preparation. we're having a very specific discussion here. the picture of the fire department is a very good one. so, thirdly, i would like to thank all those who have helped not only with this report but also in ensuring that in the midst of the biggest economic, financial and social crisis since the second world war, no country in the european union has gone bankrupt, that stability is maintained, that all economic and social data is up these days. despite the suffering and the great difficulties which people in many countries have had to bear - nobody should be happy about this, nobody should be on the agenda here - i would like to thank you for the biggest reforms in these countries for decades. we're not through yet, but we're finally seeing light at the end of the tunnel. in this sense, as the report says, i ask you not to blame but to be glad that we have been able to ignite the light at the end of the tunnel. we must not blame, but we must take political responsibility for the causes of the crisis and political responsibility for the response to the crisis, so that we can learn from the crisis together. the member states have the primary responsibility. the european union would like to have more solidarity in the future.
in writing. four years after the first bailout, weak growth is beginning to emerge. but how many people are actually still unemployed? too many of them. it is not in the interests of the people concerned that we should talk about weak growth. the situation in cyprus has been completely ignored and innocent people have been sent into abject poverty: a bail-in that can now happen anywhere. there are many, many people in my own country who are worried. the troika has unfortunately not paid attention to the people per se. people cannot be held responsible for the failures of their political system or the failures of their financial system, especially the young people affected and the unemployed of the 50+ generation. no one can blame the financial crisis that erupted in the united states in 2008 and turned into a global structural crisis. one thing is clear: our europe has done a great deal here. it is now everyone's responsibility to return to the maastricht criteria so that the state budgets can finally be brought back into line. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the banking system is properly regulated. it is indeed necessary to strengthen control of finances and their channels. it does indeed need democratic legitimacy, but always with a view to our citizens.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it all sounds a bit like a bad fascist joke. fourteen new members were elected to the human rights council last october, including algeria, china, morocco and saudi arabia. they're supposed to monitor human rights around the world for the next three years! ironically, the whole thing could be put this way: the elite of human rights defenders is elected and has been elected here. the council has a serious design flaw. even countries that trample on human rights can be elected, and any member country can apply without any selection criteria. the european parliament has a right to vote in elections by a simple majority, while the western democracies are in the minority. islamic delegates regularly prevent discussions about human rights violations in their states. they refer to the sharia as part of their religion. in this composition, ladies and gentlemen, the human rights council is behaving itself to the point of absurdity. the council has also adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east, which calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners and the immediate release of all political prisoners.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i was the shadow rapporteur on the regulation on the general provisions. i think this is a very important regulation which we have negotiated very well in the team. this regulation, which concerns the general provisions, concerns the protection of the financial interests of the union, the central administration of funds, union action, emergency aid and technical assistance. it is about national programmes, how they must be implemented, how they are accepted, how controls work so that the funds are used optimally and effectively. it is a question of determining the percentages, how much of the union's resources, how much of the member states' resources are to be used. it is also about the discussion of how much pre-financing is needed from the union budget and, ultimately, how programmes are assessed, evaluated and reported. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i'm glad that after long negotiations, an agreement has finally been reached. we know that there have been major differences between parliament and the council, but in the end there is agreement. we should be happy. i am particularly pleased that parliament has been able to ensure that all projects must demonstrate added value for the european union as a whole, that we also carry out unannounced checks on projects where a lot of money from eu citizens and taxpayers is involved in order to ensure that the funds are used safely, and that we have ensured that co-financing for the implementation of national programmes can normally be as high as 75%, and in peak cases or in exceptional circumstances even as high as 90%. so, in sum, i think it was an excellent team effort with an excellent result!
in writing. a sensible asylum and migration policy in line with european values is one of the greatest challenges facing europe. so far, it has been insufficiently answered. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the new fund is an important step towards greater coherence and european solidarity. it is important that the available funds are distributed fairly and efficiently. parliament has succeeded in involving civil society structures more closely in the negotiations. it is absolutely necessary. this also allows for a practical evaluation of the impact of the measures on the population groups concerned. all of this is a promising start. however, to really solve the problems, more intensive efforts are needed, both qualitatively and quantitatively. $3.8 billion sounds like a lot of money. divided by 6 years and 28 member states, this is already somewhat relative.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union's common commercial policy is the cornerstone of european foreign policy. the focus must therefore always be on the competitiveness of the european economy, and in particular of small and medium-sized enterprises. small and mediumsized enterprises are the backbone of our economy and are of inestimable value in terms of know-how, growth and job security within the european union. i think i can say that my group is also behind this approach 100 per cent. exports beyond the internal market have played a major part in the success story of smes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it is high time to correct existing errors. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. to be successful in third markets requires not only know-how and financing but also a basic knowledge and understanding of the relevant third market. you need to know what conditions prevail, what situations to expect and how to optimally position yourself in the market. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's external trade is not affected by the crisis. we can't afford that, honestly! i think we can agree that information posts are of great value to european exports. the question is whether synergies within the member states could not be better used to optimise the flow of information between exporters and the local information centres. it is not necessary to create information networks in areas which are already well connected, only to find multiple parallel structures. i don't think this is the way to go. foreign trade offices are definitely welcome. but multiple structures are an unnecessary additional effort which ultimately produces the exact opposite of what we originally intended: clear and targeted aid and support for our smes in third markets!
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank mr mato adrover because fishing has a great impact on us in europe. i would like to ask you, mr president, what are the advantages and disadvantages of the agreement for our selfemployed fishermen and, in particular, for the small and mediumsized enterprises which then process the fish? do you see any advantages in the agreement that has been reached? and do you see any disadvantages for those who then adhere to it?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. our challenges are many and very big, in every way. i don't see any trees growing to the sky. the political guidelines for the next budget should give priority to the appropriate strategic investments to help get the european economy back on track. much has been done and achieved in recent years, but it is still not enough. we need investments that create sustainable growth and jobs. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the young people urgently need to be given a lasting perspective, and on the other hand we must also think about the large number of unemployed people in their 50s and above. these will need work for the next two decades. let us create the conditions today to avoid the problems we will face in the near future. a word about the payments: the european union must fulfil its legal and political obligations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to point out that the renewed danger of a possible shutdown, as we had last autumn, must be prevented with all our might today. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent cooperation.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. - mr president, i have to say that i am very pleased. you said yesterday in a debate that you would very much welcome the departure of certain countries from the euro area. now we all know that this would cost an enormous amount of money, and we as european member states could not afford it. you're talking about spending less money today. how do you see that in a realistic relationship?
i have to say, madam president, the heads of state or government have cut the european budget by almost 4% by 2020. they have ordered to enforce 1[nbsp]% fewer services per year for the next five years. there is no de facto compensation for inflation for our civil servants. and what i lack is simply the incentive. i believe we need a stronger europe, we need a europe that is more assertive and more efficient. this is why frontloading is a priority for the youth guarantee. we see here that erasmus, cosme and horizon 2020 will play an important role. on the other hand, i am very sad that there have been huge cuts to the connecting europe facility and at the same time there has been backloading. we're in for some serious trouble here. we must not forget that the european union is a political union, a political union of the people, a political union of the people.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to begin by thanking mr deva, because development policy is of central importance to us. commissioner piebalgs has always put it well: it is in the poorest of the poor that we need energy. so it is important to think about how to put photovoltaic units, wind turbines, for example, in those areas on the equator where there are 12 hours of night and 12 hours of day. do you see a chance that with european funds we can provide the energy to run smartphones, laptops, computers, to have some light at night, to be able to work? do you think this is a way for europe to do more here?
i have to say, madam president, i do not share the views of former chancellor gerhard schröder on russia and putin. i can also understand that his commitment to nord stream is being criticized. what i cannot understand is that colleagues who are very strong in defending freedom of expression want to bring about, by means of a decision of parliament, that someone should not open his mouth and should not speak. i wanted to make that clear before we vote on this motion, because i think it is unacceptable for a parliament to ask someone not to open their mouth. i don't agree with gerhard schröder that much. (applause from the centre)
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of asylum. the asylum lobby is indeed well-equipped and there is a reason why human trafficking continues to flourish. in theory, the fund is intended to respond to emergency situations, such as a crisis in a member state's asylum system. in practice, this reinforces the tendency for border controls to remain lax in the southern countries and for illegal economic migrants to be sent to the rich eu countries in breach of the contract with touristvisa & co. the asylum, migration and integration fund must be rejected in the strongest possible terms.
in the field of asylum and migration, the commission proposes to combine the three existing funds - the european refugee fund, the european fund for the integration of third-country nationals and the european return fund - into a single financial instrument. the total budget of the future asylum and migration fund is eur 3.9 billion. in future, a wide range of measures should be supported and the common asylum system strengthened, legal migration and a fair return strategy promoted and solidarity and responsibility among all member states strengthened. more and more people from non-eu countries in eastern europe are seeking asylum in austria, but many of them are not at risk. the rapid response to the sharp increase in asylum seekers from the former yugoslavia and albania is therefore urgently needed. citizens from serbia, macedonia, bosnia and herzegovina, albania and montenegro have been exempted from visa requirements for travel to the eu for some years now. in 2012, around 47 000 asylum seekers from these countries applied for asylum in europe. asylum applications without prospects significantly prolong the processing time. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are uniform. this would save money and make sustainable use of existing funds. existing instruments should be clearly strategised and better used. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. - the report deals with the establishment of the asylum and migration fund. the financial envelope is to be increased by 40%, which is a considerable financial envelope, given that the total amount currently available is almost eur 3 billion. the key criterion is european added value. the fund should therefore provide support where the values and approaches of the european union are represented and upheld. in this sense, the report is sound and consistent, but it is necessary to consider whether the extension of the measures justifies an increase of 40% in the appropriations, especially since the appropriations may also be used in third countries.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr. jahr, i have to sober you up. the troika has led to the highest unemployment rates in the world, to mass poverty and to a record level of national debt. this is the basis for the next crisis and even if there is economic growth this is the classic basis for the next crisis! that means that the crisis has merely been postponed in parallel. and it's going to be much more dramatic next time! and the troika has no idea what it is going to present to us. the only thing that the international monetary fund is proposing to us - i would recommend that you study the imf's annual report of october 2013 - is a 10% drawdown of savings! that is what is being proposed. and after the election, this 10% depletion, which they've already tested in cyprus, will come. this should be said to the voters before the eu elections on 25 may this year!
in the case of greece, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. now, greece will never be able to pay back its debts without driving its citizens into poverty. it is not too late to finally discharge greece from the euro so that it can recover economically and take on its own responsibilities. it is almost as if the troika were set up to provide a scapegoat for the undemocratic and eu-treaty-breaking actions of brussels. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. for these reasons i voted against the report.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. she prevented a disaster. but for the future, it must be made better, more transparent and more democratic. in the short term, the tripartite body needs internal rules of procedure to make its decision-making processes more transparent. in the long term, the work of the troika should be taken over by a new european monetary fund on the basis of eu law, so that decisions on reforms and aid are democratically legitimised and parliamentary controlled. it's the only way to increase the acceptance among the citizens!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. without the troika, some countries would be bankrupt today. the grants prevented a disorderly default which would have had extremely serious economic and social consequences, worse than the current economic and social problems.
in the light of the recent developments in the european union, the commission has decided to propose a new financial framework for the european union. savings in education, youth unemployment and the emergence of a new class of poverty in the mid-sized enterprises are currently very bleak prospects for the future of europe. but i think it is a mistake for the eu and the troika to want to respond to this crisis with financial injections again, instead of reforming the system from the ground up. i do not think it is possible to achieve a lasting solution to the crisis in the countries mentioned above by continuing to use the credit facility and the esf. that is why i voted accordingly.
in writing. - the continuing flow of migration in europe makes it all the more important to oppose the legalisation of economic refugees. it is important to encourage developing countries to keep these people in their countries. there is no point in allowing people from developing countries to enter the labour market, especially in view of the high unemployment rates in the eu countries. the present proposal is likely to encourage even more people to risk their lives in search of an illusion of a clever europe.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial contribution to the european social fund. nevertheless, the asylum and migration fund regulation can be accepted as the financial support is mainly linked to the added value for the union that the supported programmes are intended to pursue. the main objective of this is to prevent and combat crime, and this can only be accepted in the interests of the security of the european union.
in writing. - the report on internal security funds in the sense of police cooperation and crime prevention is certainly a well-intentioned approach to the fight against crime within the eu member states. however, i think that the administrative tasks and the financing of the project are too much dependent on a centralised approach. i believe that crime prevention would be more useful and efficient at national level, but there are also opportunities for a non-centralist approach to solving problems in the form of cooperation. that is why i voted in that way.
in writing. - the iacolino report deals with the internal security fund, which is intended to provide financial support for the following objectives: prevention and combating of organised crime, improving cooperation between the authorities of the member states and with third countries, managing security risks and crises, and protecting the population and critical infrastructure. the rapporteur is in favour of allocating resources in a way that is more favourable to the member states themselves, as this is the only way to promote and improve the capacity of national authorities.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote in the european parliament. i believe, however, that it is essential to promote and implement border prevention at national level in order to combat criminals and smugglers more effectively. the external border in the eastern member states is so vulnerable that its continued funding would be a drop in the bucket. it is therefore important to strengthen the activities of agencies such as frontex, but it is also important to face the fact that the current external borders cannot be kept stable by purely cosmetic measures of a financial nature. i therefore incorporated these considerations into my voting behaviour.
in writing. - the report presented on the internal security fund focuses on border security and external border management in the european union. the financial resources made available at member state level represent a particularly high expenditure, but border security must not be neglected. the fact that payments are made in instalments and that a country receives more support the more it puts itself at the service of european added value is particularly positive. in this sense, the report can be considered and accepted as being quite correct.
in writing. - common network and information security within the eu is intended to ensure stable networks and information systems and the continuity of core services for the smooth functioning of the internal market, in particular for the development of the digital single market. however, i believe that the unification of networks and information systems is again a matter of coercive regulation, which clearly exceeds the competence of the commission and the eu as such, both in budgetary and civil terms. the fact that we have to be asked to cooperate as market participants and, in the worst case, face sanctions, is not in my view in the spirit of free market economy development and is not in the interests of free market economies. that is why i voted accordingly in the vote.
in writing. - the report presented deals with the question of ensuring a high level of common network and information security in the union. i have to say that i am not in favour of the commission's proposal, but i would like to say that i am in favour of the commission's proposal.
in writing. - the report submitted on the specific accounting and auditing activities for the period 2014-2020 is coherent and consistent; the comprehensive amendments deal mainly with the fact that no agreements may be signed which do not convey a true picture of the situation and/or circumstances. this approach is entirely justified, as it is intended to provide greater legal certainty. the commission has also proposed a global harmonisation of accounting standards. in this sense, the report can be accepted in order to improve the functioning of the internal market.
in writing. - brussels and the manufacturers had already agreed in principle in 2009 in a voluntary agreement. however, because the manufacturers did not comply with the agreement, the eu has now decided to make the rules mandatory. it is incomprehensible why a different cable is still necessary for each device. we must put an end to the countless different charging plugs. we have to get rid of the cable salad!
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report, because the guidelines for the 2015 budget procedure – section iii provide a very clear political message and steps to be followed by the eu commission in planning next year’s payments and commitments. the report as it stands puts particular emphasis on investment in education, mobility, r&d and smes. i personally believe that economic recovery will only be succeeded by boosting employment and financing for the smes. in order to improve the business environment and decrease youth unemployment, we have to restrain the negative economic impact that could affect our youth as well as the 50+ generation in the long term.
mr kelly! this assembly has neither the right nor the ability to set deadlines or ultimatums for russia. this is simply war-mongering, nothing more. you know very well that's not possible. the title of this resolution, 'invasion of ukraine', is also a deliberate russophobic provocation! mr posselt, it is not news that you have always been an anti-russian. this is a deliberate provocation, and it is a provocation without limits! it is also the right of self-determination of peoples that the russians are exercising in crimea. you know that. you know that. then why are you criminalizing this referendum? there is a russian majority there, and that russian majority will of course vote for russia. you're responsible for this! you produced this pile of shrapnel in kiev on maidan square. now you don't know what to do with this pile of broken glass. this was your responsibility! poland is the wrong advisor for russian politics! just like a german foreign minister of the wrong ... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. - the report presented deals with the implementation of the treaty of lisbon and its implications for the european parliament. the rapporteur acknowledges that parliament has been given additional powers and has stood up to the new challenge. however, he pointed out that there was still room for improvement in the interinstitutional relationship between the european parliament and the european commission. in particular, the exchange of information on delegated and implementing acts should be improved. the rapporteur is critical and makes relevant points.
in writing. - according to article 17 of the universal declaration of human rights, 'everyone has the right to own property, both individually and in association with others'. no one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his property. despite the aforementioned human rights, 1.2 billion people worldwide inhabit property for which they have no formal rights, or live without a permanent residence. the key is that development aid addresses the causes of poverty, not the symptoms. development policy must be geared to sustainability. by 2020, at least 20 million people must be lifted out of poverty and social exclusion; the eu's heads of state or government have committed themselves to this. however, it is important to bear in mind that our eu countries are currently very far from achieving the 2020 target. the economic crisis has made the situation much worse and the long-term sustainability of social security systems is questionable. existing strategies need to be revised and adapted to the current situation in order to make progress. the commission has also undertaken to provide the necessary information to the member states on the implementation of the measures. i have therefore abstained from voting on this and other points of disagreement in the report.
in the case of the united states, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the development of the country concerned. the rapporteur concludes that more people owning their own land and therefore enjoying a better quality of life would make the path to eradicating poverty much easier.
in writing. - the rapporteurs underline that the unhrc needs to be competitive and the importance of standards for unhrc membership as regards commitment and performance in the human rights field. they regret the fact that the space for interaction between civil society and the unhrc is shrinking and that ngos are being offered fewer opportunities to speak at these sessions. thematic issues cover concerns such as the rights of the child, women and girls, torture, the death penalty, freedom of religion or belief, caste-based discrimination, right to peaceful assembly, housing, water and sanitation, business and human rights. the joint motion also underlines the importance of the eu participating actively in all un human rights mechanisms. the importance of effective coordination and cooperation between the eeas, the commission and eu member states on human rights issues is also stressed. it is also extremely important for the eu member states to support the unhrc, by working together towards the fulfilment of the indivisibility and universality of human rights and by ratifying all the international human rights instruments that this body has established. it is regrettable that no eu member state has ratified the convention on the protection of the rights of all migrant workers and members of their families.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the february 24 sentences related to the may 2012 demonstrations are certainly extremely harsh sentences, but they are clearly in line with the russian criminal framework. the background to the sentences against demonstrations and riots is however complex and probably also influenced by the recent maidan revolution in ukraine. in fact, one can go back to earlier revolutions in georgia and ukraine, which were a cultural shock to russians who were just socialized in the old soviet system. russia must therefore - as a democratic state governed by the rule of law - carefully consider whether it wants to orientate itself more towards europe or asia in its further development, and set clear objectives for the development of a mature civil society, which it will ultimately allow to develop. this does not mean, of course, that europe and america should now be the great teachers, because we too have a real need for discussion and reform in the area of our political and social freedoms.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. when you consider that homosexuality is punishable by imprisonment in uganda and nigeria, or even life imprisonment for repeated practice, or even worse, the death penalty in 12 sharia states, the partly hysterical debates about alleged discrimination against homosexuals in the eu become relative. however, it is clear that the laws that punish homosexuality are inhumane and the eu must take appropriate action. the payment of development aid must therefore be reconsidered. at any rate, they should not benefit the rulers, otherwise such laws would be indirectly supported. the cotonou agreement gives the so-called acp countries favourable customs conditions in trade with the eu. the convention also obliges the signatory states to respect human rights. the eu has obviously tried all the possibilities of diplomatic dialogue, but without success. now the question is, what do we do? the consequence would be to exclude nigeria and uganda from the cotonou agreement.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is estimated that more than 60,000 eritreans, egyptians and somalis have fled to the sinai peninsula in recent years. but as we all know, there's a power vacuum there. the military's involvement is limited, and since the fall of morsi, the blue helmets have been staying in their camps for security reasons. this is what radical islamist gangs are using. about 7,000 refugees have been kidnapped for ransom, 4,000 killed, and their bodies horribly trafficked for organs. as a matter of urgency, the egyptian military must therefore restore security to the peninsula. but also senior islamic religious leaders in cairo, sinai and saudi arabia are called upon to condemn these acts of violence, which are primarily directed against their muslim brothers and sisters, because crimes against humanity have no place in any religion. in the medium term, it is important to create decent living conditions for refugees in their home countries, so that they can live free of sharia, free of tribal leaders and do not have to flee.
in writing. clinical trials are the administration and testing of medicines to humans to develop new drugs against diseases. patients are observed and data are evaluated. it is important that the study plan is submitted to an ethics committee beforehand, so that doctors, but also patient representatives and non-medical professionals, such as lawyers or philosophers, can evaluate the conduct of the study! another key aspect is transparency. all pharmaceutical companies will be required to publish the results of their studies in a publicly available database, regardless of the outcome. the results must also be presented in a summary that is easily understood by the layman. the problem is, however, that the tacit approval is given after a certain period has elapsed. this should be deleted for patient safety!
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i would like to ask a question to mrs trautmann. she said that she and her group are for specialised services, only in a different definition than the one currently on the table. could you please explain to us exactly how far you would allow specialised services? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i'm waiting for an answer.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the internet is one of the few truly free media in our society - it's free of political groupings, it's free of interest groups. protecting this freedom and the neutrality of the internet should also be a priority for us as representatives of the people. the internet is back in the public domain. i am therefore all the more shocked by the proposal in this house which wants to make the internet subject to discrimination, to banal discrimination through money and to a departure from net neutrality. just as the automobile was groundbreaking for the 20th century, so is the internet for the 21st century. when road traffic increased in the past, we built roads, not organized road use according to the wealth of the motorists. similarly, there should be no second-class citizens in internet traffic. every citizen has the same right to be informed widely and independently. the internet should be, and above all, we should be.
in writing. the internet is developing at a rapid pace. and there are decisions to be made on principle. the network is already heavily monitored to deal with criminals and terrorists, for example. and now the ecj has also made a significant decision on the blocking of networks to prevent copyright infringement. however, this requires a filter infrastructure on the part of the provider, which is only available in some eu countries. a lock-in infrastructure that has been in place is then all too easily extended. for example, data retention, originally introduced to combat terrorism, is now used mainly against petty criminals. and who says that politically unpopular sites won't be blocked at some point? this, combined with the tendency of the network providers to charge money to the providers of the web services, is a highly explosive development. big companies are digging their teeth into their pockets to guarantee high-speed internet connections, thus consolidating their quasi-monopoly position. this puts the diversity of the offer at risk. at some point, consumers will also have to buy different types of internet access. however, this requires the network operator to monitor constantly what users access. and with that, we'll cement internet surveillance once and for all. the orwellian vision of a totalitarian surveillance state must not become reality.
in writing. tomorrow we will vote on the future of the internet. the commission proposal contains major gaps in the areas of freedom of communication, fair competition and innovation on the internet. we have reached a joint resolution with which we will correct the commission's proposal. we need to legislate to ensure net neutrality and therefore freedom of expression on the internet. the internet as an engine of innovation must be preserved, and if we abolish net neutrality, we abolish the internet. twenty-five years ago, the world wide web was invented. for years, we have been calling for the legalization of net neutrality. we have that opportunity tomorrow, and we should take it. i shall therefore vote in favour of amendments nos 234 to 246. only a neutral internet is a good internet! as tim berners-lee, the inventor of the world wide web, said: "the moment you let net neutrality go, you lose the web as it is".
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not my question to mrs gräßle is this: we know the monitoring committee. do you think it's necessary to reform the supervisory board? is it necessary to give him more rights and also to give him the chance to exercise more transparency in this area, especially vis-à-vis parliament?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is always good to see that good work is being done in the european union, that research is creating new jobs here, highly qualified jobs. as rapporteur, i was responsible for the joint undertakings, the so-called joint ventures, in particular for the period 2012-2013. these joint ventures with private and public partnerships are of course giving important impetus in the european union and are setting new standards, especially in basic research relevant to industry. you can see that! we have a number of joint ventures here, like artemis and eniac. artemis is responsible for key technologies, for embedded information and communication technology systems, and eniac for key competences in nanoelectronics, areas which represent our competence in telecommunications, but also in other areas, and where europe is indeed a leader. i also congratulate the commission on the fact that these two agencies will then be merged with horizon 2020 into ecsel, the electronic components and systems joint undertaking. this is a real step towards greater efficiency. the main aim is to increase the level of expertise by bringing together the bureaucracy. that's why artemis and eniac needed this realignment as badly as clean sky did. clean sky is very much involved in air traffic management and the associated infrastructure. we have a very good way of improving things, especially with galileo. of course, fch, the fuel cell and hydrogen agency, is also crucial to setting new standards in the field of mobility. imi the innovative pharmaceutical agency, iter fusion energy and sesar, which is also very active in the air traffic control system for the single airspace we have a nice job here! since these four joint ventures have received a full letter of approval from the court of auditors, we do not see any need to refuse discharge. i think that parliament has no need to deny discharge to the other three, because overall there has been a positive outlook with concrete measures for progress. i would like to emphasize in particular the involvement of small and mediumsized enterprises, but also of the selfemployed. this is where research projects with innovative ideas need to be significantly advanced. despite this positive assessment, there is still a lot of room for improvement. in particular, in the interests of greater transparency, we therefore also ask joint ventures to make the cvs of the members of the management boards and executive directors publicly available on internet sites in the future. so more transparency who works there, what they have done so far and where their expertise is and of course also the highest possible level of transparency to stifle conflicts of interest in the first place. in this connection, the court of auditors should draw up a special report on the prevention of conflicts of interest in joint undertakings, while ensuring, of course, technical competence.
the commission has already done so. i would also like to thank the court of auditors in particular for doing a very serious and good job. after all, the error rates show that control is actually being exercised. it is reassuring to see that the controls are very effective and that they also create transparency. i would also like to thank the commission, because it is clear that the interaction between parliament, the court of auditors and the commission is working very well, that results are being achieved here which are often unpleasant, but i believe that this unpleasantness also leads to improvement. our aim is to focus on these issues step by step, to see how best practice at european level can be improved accordingly. i also thank the president of the court of auditors for not only controlling and criticizing but for having found a new style here, namely that the units to be audited are also trained, given support and taught how to contribute to a really correct and transparent accounting and management. so the learning effect, showing how we can do better in the future, is crucial. i believe that the benefits of the european union are also highly communicated in these reports from the court of auditors. we see that the money spent is effective, that it helps the citizens. i believe that the absence of the european union here, by duplicating the 28 member states, would place a heavy burden on the citizens of europe. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the european union.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it's late, but it's not too late to do the right thing. more and more citizens are using atms or credit cards for payments. the union market is still far too fragmented in this area. we are also concerned about the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the commission has presented the second single market package and i am glad that tomorrow we, as the european parliament, will take the next concrete step towards strengthening the single market for the benefit of businesses and consumers. the payment package brings more transparency, competition, customer friendliness and is therefore another step in the right direction. the commission expects a cost saving of up to eur 6 billion per year from the introduction of the single reduced interchange fee alone - something that will benefit both retailers and consumers! i am in favour of a fixed percentage and a cap on the total. in this sense, the package provides clear rules and adapts the legal situation to the reality of people's lives. this is a good decision for the citizens of europe.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the main aspects and the basic guidelines of the common foreign and security policy and the common security and defence policy (article 36 teu) (2013/2633 ((rsp)) and the report by arnaud danjean on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs on the eu's comprehensive approach and its impact on the coherence of the eu's external action (2013/2146 ((ini)) (a7-0138/2014).
- i'm not going to. i would say that this speech was not in keeping with the manners and respect we show to each other here.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not (the speaker speaks without a microphone) ... the previous speaker, who is a member of the socialist group, is not entirely comprehensible. maybe he can clarify it a little bit. he is in favour of a defensive european policy. does he also support a united european army? and secondly, he also advocates greater energy independence. does that mean that we should rethink the sanctions against iran a little bit and maybe also think about importing gas and oil from iran?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by replying to mr kukan and mr tannock. i am also in favour of abolishing the death penalty worldwide. only if we demand this from iran, then we must also take a credible stand against other countries that have the death penalty, and even work with torture. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there's a senate report on that, and it's open. i therefore share mrs durant's view that a policy on iran should be developed independently of the united states. so here we are again with the translation service. anyway, that's how i got it translated. that also means we have to go back to the diplomatic level. thank god that understanding has now matured, because we have achieved nothing with sanctions and threats against iran. we have achieved nothing but the population of iran turning away from the west. the return to the diplomatic level is therefore a matter of urgency. if we in the european union continue to pursue our own nuclear policy, to use nuclear energy ourselves, then we must allow iran to do so as well. i am personally against the use of nuclear energy - and i also reject the peaceful use of nuclear energy for reasons of safety. but if the european union itself uses nuclear energy, it must allow iran to do so. and i also think that the european union, as part of its own policy towards iran, must also demand that iran, as a regional power, be included in the talks in geneva on the syrian issue. i think it is wrong, a wrong signal, to engage in diplomatic negotiations with a partner and at the same time to avoid it from the outset on another level as a regional power. it is unreasonable, and therefore we should also be open about it. and by the way, i am strongly opposed to paragraph 5, because it is nothing less than a new form of neo-colonialism to open an eu representation in tehran to influence iranian domestic politics.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i very much welcome this debate because it deals with the union's strategy towards iran. but the question is whether we can accept the current policy towards that country as a strategic calculation. europe has neglected iran for too long and has not had a promising solution to bring it back into the family of nations. two years ago, we even discussed military options here. fortunately, we ruled them out at the time. in the subsequent period, there was a heated debate on whether we should dare to visit iran as part of the interparliamentary contacts. i've always been in favor of that. the first meetings took place after the inauguration of the new president, mr rouhani, and parliament travelled to tehran. our visit clearly demonstrated the possibilities and opportunities of normal relations and made us realize how much the population yearns for normalization. the problems are still very large, they seem insurmountable at times, and they still need to be tackled. the nuclear issue must not only be resolved in the interests of regional security, but above all iran must stop executing politically unpopular persons. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat drug trafficking. iran should speak more clearly on human rights and take clear steps towards freedom of assembly, freedom of speech and freedom of association. it is also time to end the house arrest of mousavi and karrubi - the two iconic figures of the 2009 democracy movement. we are not going to be able to do that, and we are not going to be able to do that. then you need signs like that. the european union is not a party to the nuclear agreement, but it is a party to the nuclear agreement.
reply to a question on the 'blue card' procedure for tunne kelam. to your question: it makes little sense to assess the question of blame in such a way that i ask who is mainly responsible for it. i think we could have made these contacts much earlier, and i agree with you, of course, that many, many of iran's moves were clearly moves that we cannot accept. but i think - and we have seen this during the iron curtain and the cold war - that it is important to get in touch with the other side and to have a dialogue. i had the impression that there are still many contradictions, but that they can be systematically identified in the course of a dialogue, and that this can lead to new solutions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. every additional nation with nuclear weapons is a threat to the delicate global nuclear balance. this is of course particularly true of the middle east powder keg. so our focus should not only be on iran, but also on saudi arabia, where there are interesting talks with pakistan about nuclear use. however, iran continues to show its willingness to accept the terms of the deal in words and deeds. so we have to think about easing the sanctions again. a critical assessment of the sanctions against iran clearly reveals where the interests of the united states and china lie. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy resources are not used for the production of oil and gas. the commission has also proposed that the council should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. greater dependence on us energy sources and indirect subsidies to china's economy - can these really be the new eu foreign policy goals? we should think a little bit more geopolitically here. i am therefore in favour of opening diplomatic talks and of a peaceful negotiated solution with iran.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i don't think i'm in the people's party, i'm on the other side, but that doesn't matter in this case. mr. president, maybe the order will change after the next elections, so we'll see then.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the question of dual-use goods is a very interesting one and one that is also very much underestimated. you can't imagine much when you first start out. but the point is that the civilian goods that are exported can also be goods that are not used for civilian purposes, but can be used as weapons in the end. the situation is that there are different export regimes in europe. some member states are very liberal, others are less liberal, and those who are less careful naturally have a competitive advantage. it is therefore important, and i naturally agree with the rapporteur and the commissioner, that we should have a european system for the export of goods in the long term. what we have done now, updating the lists, is a step in the right direction, but there must be a whole new regulation at the end of the day - i know the commission is already working on it, and that is a good thing - which takes two things into account in particular: it is not worthwhile to wait until after export to have the checks carried out. that's point one, which would be important to me. point two: we have to make sure that we're very careful with information technology, with cybersecurity. it was already the case that german leopard ii tanks were exported they have not killed anyone yet, in a way. but german information technology, which has been exported, has already killed people, and that is very, very dangerous and we must be careful about that next time.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. dual-use goods are goods that can be used for both civil and military purposes. they also include goods for both non-explosive purposes and for the production of nuclear weapons. in this sensitive area, export to third countries is subject to authorization. while a high level of security and transparency is important in strategic export controls, trade and competition should not be disproportionately hampered. and you also have to look at the new geopolitical threats and the rapid changes in technology. we therefore need to update the eu control lists and strengthen risk assessment.
in the case of the commission, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is not subject to the same restrictions as the member states. the same rights must apply to all, which is why i voted against the report.
in writing. - brussels wants to improve its public image with an 'independent european broadcaster'. the super-state radio is to be financed by european taxpayers. this european public service broadcasting is to be positioned in addition to the public service broadcasters in europe, even though taxpayers already have to pay compulsory fees for the public service broadcasters in most nations. the european broadcasting union aims to give the world's public a 'common understanding of the values enshrined in the eu treaties, such as human rights and fundamental freedoms, including freedom of expression'. at least the kind of freedom of expression that the eu is allowed to have and that is politically correct. the commission has already taken a number of measures against political dissidents. it is unreasonable for taxpayers to go even deeper into their pockets just so that brussels can try to correct its image. i am completely opposed to this project.
in writing. - the final text, as adopted in the trilogue negotiations, is an optimal compromise which will help to protect the health of eu citizens. it will not weaken the competitiveness of the european car industry. i am glad that the proposal has found broad support across the political spectrum in this parliament.
in writing. - in principle, we think this regulation is a good idea, but motorcycles should also be included. the motorcycles in particular are a major source of noise. the limitation to passenger cars would therefore be a mistake. it is therefore more efficient to create a system which covers all motor vehicles subject to the road traffic code.
in the case of the beef and veal sector, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules on the protection of animals are respected. the commission has also proposed that the data base should take account of the development of technology for the electronic identification of bovine animals. there are various means of identification. in principle, there is no objection to a revision of the system. the fact that the 'means of identification used' should now also be added to the information to be provided by farmers on their holdings seems to me to be bureaucratic. i cannot therefore agree with the report.
written. - problems such as the european breast implant scandal in 2011 were caused by a lack of controls, not a lack of approval procedures. we do not want a central approval bureaucracy for every adhesive tape or every support sock. but high-risk products must be made even safer. we can only achieve this by increasing targeted, unannounced post-market surveillance.
in writing. - the report on the european year of development (2015) once again demonstrates the eu's overreach, which it sees as a 'global player'. instead of looking at the development of european member states, which were hit hard by the economic and financial crisis, among other things, the focus here is on poverty reduction and development aid in distant countries, and this is underlined by the concept of acceptance. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations with the united states and the european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. who can explain to me that we have eu agencies for aviation safety or workplace safety but no nuclear safety authority?
in the case of the nuclear power stations, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the safety of the plant is not compromised. and this without taking into account factors such as material misuse, human error or terrorist attacks. without pressure, european energy companies will hardly be able to raise the estimated 10 to 25 billion euros needed for retrofitting. no reactor is truly safe. emergency systems must be designed to function even in the worst of chaos. the present report is a step in the right direction, which is why i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. - the stockholm programme is intended to define a common policy on the protection of fundamental rights, privacy, minorities and vulnerable groups, and citizenship of the union. however, it must be said that the stockholm programme is a consistent continuation of the path of continuous reduction and interference with human rights that has been followed since 11 september. privacy concerns are simply being swept off the table in the fight against alleged terrorism. edward snowden has shown the extent to which data from ordinary citizens, even when not suspected of wrongdoing, is recorded, collected and potentially misused. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. i have voted against this report.
in writing. - dual-use goods are goods which are used for both military and civilian purposes. such goods include information and communication technology equipment and software. the report proposes that sanctions be imposed on their export. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the situation in the member states. as the fpö stands for austria's neutrality and independence, we reject, firstly, the expansion of the power of decision for brussels as to what goods austria may export to other countries and, secondly, the implicit instrumentalisation of austria by the eu for international economic pressure measures.
in writing. - we voted for the compromise agreed in the trilogue. it is not worth putting european airlines at a disadvantage in international competition. a global arrangement for the future must be made. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the airport operator would have been able to obtain a profit in the absence of the aid. we have voted to prevent this.
in writing. - until now, air transport has been exempted from co2 emission obligations, which means that it has not had to pay for the co2 pollution it causes. for years, there have been attempts to reach an agreement here. the core problem is flights that start/end within the union but end/start in a third country. they should be fully covered by the certificate requirement. there is considerable pressure from third country governments/stakeholders to only include intra-european flights, which would exclude the majority of flights, e.g. one from london to istanbul. the commission has proposed a compromise in this respect, according to which the flight distance over european airspace should be decisive. so, on a flight from london to istanbul, that would be the bulk of the flight. i consider this proposal sensible and fair. if we were to stick to the requirement to use only intra-eu flights, only about 20% of the emissions from flights to or from eu airports would be covered. the commission's proposal would make it 40%. moreover, a mere capitulation of the eu to the demands of third countries would be a sad capitulation and not very exemplary for the eu's pioneering role. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this regulation because it finally sets a ceiling on credit card and atm charges. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to take account of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a breach of the directive. this reduces costs for consumers and retailers. currently, credit card companies are making billions of euros from the non-transparent fees across europe. the costs are passed on to consumers.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules of the road are respected. the tso shall apply the principle of net neutrality, which means that data traffic is treated equally without discrimination, restriction or detriment, and regardless of the sender, recipient, type, content, device, service or application. however, in order to ensure this principle, it is necessary to establish rules for services which cannot function without certain bandwidths or which, like telemedicine operations, require uninterrupted transmission. mobile phone roaming charges are the last remaining area in the eu where you are charged extra just for crossing a border. this is contrary to the basic idea of the eu. this has to stop.
in writing. - we voted for net neutrality here because it is a fundamental right in my eyes. the basic principle of the internet providing free access to the widest possible variety of information is severely restricted by the network lock. so the internet should stay open. this should not only oblige internet service providers to meet the basic needs of users, but also leave them free to respond to more specific user needs and to develop their own services and innovations. the two-tier system of the internet was never a solution for me. the only ones who would benefit from this would be the big corporations. small businesses and start-ups would have no chance of establishing themselves on the market, as the internet in an 'open state' is the most essential advertising platform for those companies. thanks to our support, net neutrality has been maintained.
in writing. - this reform package addresses in particular fundamental market issues in the mobile and telecommunications sectors. the commission will also be presenting a report on the implementation of the new rules on the free movement of goods and services, which will be published in the official journal of the european union. the report improved and clarified many of the commission's approaches in this area. a last-minute critical point was the provision of special services by internet service providers. the proposed amendments could have led to more financially well-off users being able to enjoy 'advantage' on the internet. this would have been a violation of net neutrality in essence. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a new regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in the case of the financial crisis, the role of the auditors - that is, the role they should have played - may be called into question. this is questionable in the light of the fact that many banks have experienced significant losses from 2007 to 2009 both on balance sheet and off balance sheet. in principle, the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality should also be applied in this area. i am therefore sorry to say that i cannot agree with this report, although it contains good ideas.
in the case of the former soviet union, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the new agreement is implemented in full. we want to help the people of ukraine get back on their feet economically. if the economic situation in ukraine becomes more difficult, this will only contribute to further instability in the country.
in the light of the recent events in ukraine and in particular in crimea, public opinion is still focused on the situation. what was always evident was the tension in ukraine between the sphere of influence of the member states of the european union and that of the russian federation. i therefore support in principle the proposal to provide economic assistance to ukraine by abolishing or reducing customs duties on trade with the european union. what ultimately led me to abstain was the fact that i believe that such a measure would send the wrong signal, particularly to russia, that it is crucial to work towards de-escalation and political stabilisation before economic stabilisation.
in the light of the recent developments in the middle east, the commission has decided to launch a new programme of cooperation with the countries of the region. the recent crises in north africa, syria and ukraine have shown that we are still far from that. the lack of coordination or cooperation means that european countries are in danger of being turned against each other by non-european powers. this can't happen. the report, whose line i support in principle, does, however, contain some questionable proposals, particularly as regards the eu's external involvement, which is why i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. - the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012 in respect of the commission and the executive agencies shows the negligence with which the savings potential within the european institutions was handled in times of crisis. in times of crisis, not only did governments need to save, but the eu commission could have made better use of this saving potential and tightened its belt in the 2012 budget to set an example. i voted against it on those grounds.
in writing. - the discharge given to the european asylum support office in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2012 has clearly overstated its financial powers. the european union has now adopted a very broad interpretation of the asylum question, and this is reinforced by this office. the eu asylum support office is therefore gobbling up money that could have been better invested or saved. i have voted against this report because of the question of the general usefulness of the powers of this office and its financial resources.
in writing. - the report points to the following general weaknesses in the budget management of eu agencies: • weaknesses in budget planning • potential conflicts of interest • contract award and contract management • lack of transparency or consistency in recruitment procedures • transfers of funds not covered by commitments or which appear excessive • weaknesses in the review of grant operations in the case of a company, i think they would be devastating evidence of mismanagement or fraud. the court of auditors calls on the agencies to examine their internal administrative procedures for potential reductions in administrative costs, which are generally too high in the agencies. the court of auditors and the commission also acknowledge that the merger of different agencies is now a sensible move, as it would allow for significant administrative cost savings with the same performance. many of the decentralised agencies - the majority of agencies - do not follow the principle of annuality in their accounts, in other words, they are late or incorrect in their reporting periods. the report also notes that sample checks of the agencies showed that none of the four agencies checked adequately handled conflicts of interest. in particular, the bad/nonsense practice of efsa (food safety) is highlighted here! so the overall picture is alarming, even from an eu-internal perspective. i cannot agree to a discharge on these grounds.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the introduction of the new system of social security. unfortunately, in recent years there has been a huge increase in the drop-out rates in schools and training establishments. we also see that youth unemployment in europe is increasing day by day and there is no end in sight. the small budget of only 6 billion euros which should be used for the new strategy is therefore a shame. i also find it critical that this report does not mention any new ideas for implementing the strategy. however, the merger of different agencies is to be welcomed. the same performance can significantly reduce administrative costs and exploit synergies. i have rejected this report on the discharge to the european parliament because of the lack of strategies and the lack of ideas for implementation.
in writing. - the discharge given to the european asylum support office in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2012 has clearly overstated its financial powers. the question of asylum in particular has now been interpreted very broadly in the eu and this is reinforced by this office. the eu asylum support office is therefore gobbling up money that could have been better invested or saved. i have voted against this report because of the question of the general usefulness of the powers of this office and its financial resources.
in the case of the european parliament, the commission has the power to adopt decisions in the form of directives, which are binding on the member states. unfortunately, the lobbying within the european food safety authority is not going away. many experts in efsa are still in close contact with industry, either directly or indirectly. in order to guarantee food and feed safety in europe, europe needs an agency which is guaranteed to be independent and which considers the interests of consumer protection as the highest good. in its present form, the food authority should no longer be funded, because at best efsa does nothing but costs the public money. i have rejected this report on the discharge of the european parliament, because i want to fight against the waste of taxpayers' money.
in the case of the european institute for gender equality, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the funding available to the european institute for gender equality is used in a way that is not discriminatory. this is also the case in this report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2012. i did not agree to this report because i felt that it was in these areas, in particular, where there was a need to make cuts in the area of compulsory equality under pressure from civil society, that cuts should have been made.
in writing. - as regards the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2012, the potential for savings within the eu institutions was again not sufficiently exploited. in a time of economic and financial crisis, such projects and agencies have been given secondary importance in terms of financial powers within the eu institutions. that is why i did not approve this report.
in the case of the european union agency for fundamental rights, the commission has little to do with monitoring the respect of fundamental rights. on the contrary, it serves to uphold 'political correctness' and to act as a check on unwelcome political forces in the eu member states. in addition, the council of europe already monitors compliance with the fundamental rights enshrined in the european convention on human rights. this makes the agency redundant and its financial relief, which was provided under the 2012 budget, could have been used for more meaningful projects. that is why i could not agree to this report.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. the fight against fraud is a high priority for the european institutions. counterfeiters and financial fraudsters cause enormous economic damage. in future, tougher measures must be taken against fraudsters in order to combat infringement of intellectual property rights and corruption at european and international level. i support this important initiative to strengthen the fight against fraud. in 2012, the new anti-fraud strategy was not only successfully implemented, but significant progress was also made in the legislative area. i have voted in favour of this report on the fight against fraud, on the basis of the successes achieved.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i repeat: on 10 april, the european parliament held a hearing on the citizens' initiative 'one of us' in brussels, during which mr swoboda, as chairman of the s&d group, broadcast a speech in which he alleged that ideological hate speech had been used. i note that neither the initiators, the representatives of the citizens' initiative present - mostly young people - nor the members of parliament gave any ideological hate speech. mr swoboda has thereby violated the rules of conduct laid down in rule 9 (2) of the rules of procedure. i ask you, mr president, to impose sanctions under articles 152, 153 and 154 because we should not be communicating with the european citizens at this level.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. just to be clear, there are people who talk so much hate that they don't even realize they're talking about hate. i would like to make one more point: the group there tried to prevent a member of the european parliament from speaking. i call that hatred when, under the title of democracy, you say that this man cannot speak here because he does not agree with me, and he happened to be a member of this parliament, i would like to make that clear for the sake of order. we are defending freedom of speech, especially for members of this house. (applause from the centre)
mr president, i think that it would be a simplification and a reduction in the time taken to discuss both reports together, and that is why simplification is possible this week.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the vote on tuesday, mr president, will be on the iacolino report. i would like to say that, although we are now at the end of the legislative period, i would like to see us have a clear position on when we are going to vote first on the compromise we have agreed on and when we are going to vote first on the amendments. we have another case now where the order is reversed. the tobacco report was voted on first on the amendments and then on the compromise. the compromise will be voted on first in this report. i also note that, unfortunately, very often when it comes to motions from the social affairs committee, it is not possible to vote on the amendments first, but that the compromise is voted on first. i cannot accept that the services of this house are arbitrary in their decision whether to vote on the amendments first or on the compromise itself. i would at least ask that until the vote an explanation be given as to why the services have now taken a different attitude from that which they took a few weeks ago on the tobacco report. i would be very interested in that because it is a very discriminatory and very random voting order that has been chosen here and it is not acceptable to my group, at any rate, the way the services are run here. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i can only say that i cannot see why the order has been reversed again. that is not a justification, and i cannot accept it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. there are colleagues here in the house who do not take part in the work of this parliament. they may be noticed by confused questions in the plenary or by some press releases at home, but they are not involved in this. there are also colleagues who think that this parliament is completely unnecessary. if these colleagues were to prevail, we would now have a law for which the commission alone would be responsible and we would have no say in it. it would then look like giant freight cars thundering across europe, that there would be no real commitment to new aerodynamic measures. this is in addition to the report we discussed earlier. it would seem that there would be no mandatory safety measures for weaker road users, that there would be very limited alternative driving options for lorries in the future, that there would be no mandatory weight sensors to help drivers to know whether they are overloaded or not, and that would make it much easier for the executive to control. that's the added value of this house, ladies and gentlemen! the european parliament is a parliament which does not accept without objection what comes from the commission, and that is a good thing! the european parliament is a parliament which takes its responsibility as legislator seriously. we often have different ideas. and there are those who think that this report is - we shall see in this debate - and others who think that it is. but our job is to make better laws. and in this case, we have succeeded in doing so with a great deal of effort. the committee on transport has voted by a large majority to take a step back on the question of cross-border journeys, to ask the commission to do a better job this time, to examine better how this would affect not only the environment but also the economy. what does it mean for those who don't? what are the costs of opening up cross-border journeys for large lorries? we have now given the commission the task of doing so. and we're going to make sure that the trucks that are going to be going to be more aerodynamic, that they're going to be safer, and that they can also use other drives, more environmentally friendly drives. it was a great challenge for us to accomplish this task. i would like to thank the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs very sincerely and very sincerely. it wasn't easy. but we did get a good result in the end. we shall discuss this with the council and the commission in the next period and see how things go. but the fact is that if this parliament did not exist, or if most of our colleagues behaved as fortunately only a few do, namely to do nothing all the time and then judge those who have worked, that would have been a bad result. it would have been an outcome that we do not need, that no one wants, and that would have been bad for the people of europe. ladies and gentlemen, that's it for today. thank you for your cooperation. i look forward to the debate with great pleasure and interest.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. mr bennion has described the only positive aspect of the commission's proposal as a whole, namely additional new measures to improve the safety of lorry traffic, including improvements in aerodynamics. the only bad thing about this is that it's not binding. we have been calling for better side mirrors for a long time in parliament - for example, during the last parliamentary term. it was never carried out. the whole thing was a fig leaf for the real aim of the proposal, which was to promote the cross-border and europe-wide use of gigaliners. that was the point! for the time being, they should only travel between two neighbouring countries. but they were hoping that the pressure on the other states would be so great that eventually the gigalinos could go anywhere. but these have serious safety concerns. they're only useful to a few big companies, and they cost -- and that's the key point for me -- the public sector billions to adapt the infrastructure. i am therefore glad that we in the committee have succeeded in bringing about an improvement here.
the commission has already done so. the european parliament's transport committee has made a very wise decision here, as it has so often done, after long and intensive discussions. it has further improved and approved positive proposals which have come from the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the committee on transport has also said a very clear no to the development of a policy of transport mismanagement. and this is the cross-border admission of the gigaliners. what is sensible and good for individual countries is not necessarily sensible and wise for all the countries of the european union. we know that some of the speakers before us have also emphasized this, and i can prove it to you with studies from austria, that this would have been a public policy mistake. austria alone would have to invest over 5 billion euros in circular transport, in reinforcing bridges, to allow such monster trucks on the roads. that was, as i said, a wise decision by the committee. i also thank the rapporteur who has worked in this direction and i hope that tomorrow we shall have a broad agreement from the whole of parliament on all the points which are positive, but a clear rejection of the gigalins in crossborder traffic.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to go. i would like to say, commissioner, that this whole drama has not really been triggered by the original request of the committee on transport, but by your own attempt to reinterpret the existing legal situation, which, of course, was not considered particularly charming by this house and has provoked a corresponding reaction. i therefore do not understand the question of mr van dalen, who asked what the commissioner would say in the end about a decision of parliament, whether he was right or not. mr van dalen, we are lawmakers! that's for sure. and that's not going to change. i would just like to mention two other points you have raised, mr kallas. these 50 centimeters: yes, we have tried to avoid creating two kinds of law in europe. there is this directive, and there is the type approval directive. and if the two contradict each other, it could possibly lead to even greater confusion than it already does. that is why we have tried to avoid, as far as possible, creating two kinds of law in europe in all technical measures. the same goes for the weight sensors. it is not up to each member state to control overloads, on the road or by such sensors, but there should be sensors that allow drivers to detect if they are overloaded and that allow the police to assess very easily whether or not there is an overload. that was the idea behind these proposals, and they are good and workable proposals. mrs. foster , i 'd like to say this . there is no reason to fear that there will be problems with the higher altitudes in the border traffic between ireland and the united kingdom. there won't be any problems. for our intention was to let those who are already doing other things continue to do so, but to oblige no one, to put pressure on no one, and to force no one to do anything against their will. that's a good result.
in writing. four years ago, i wrote a statement in which i pointed out the dangers and problems of gigalinos. apart from my colleague mr mölzer and mrs werthmann, none of my austrian colleagues supported the motion. gigaliners are particularly dangerous on inclines and slopes and in overtaking maneuvers. the risk of accidents and the severity of accidents increase: the risk of a passenger car driver being killed in a collision with a 60-ton truck is four times greater than in a collision with a 40-ton truck! if approved, it would require costly road adaptations in my home country of austria: 5.4 billion euros would have to be invested in motorways and expressways. bridges and tunnels, which account for a disproportionate share of the road network in austria, would need to be reinforced, for example in terms of load-bearing capacity, tunnel safety and fire protection. finally, the gigaliners would be a step backwards for the shift of freight transport to rail and would therefore be in contradiction with the eu's white paper on transport!
the commission has already done so. this is a legislative act that requires an explanation of what it is not. it is not a question of setting new standards for noise measurement at airports or noise control at airports. it's not about trying to re-engineer things scientifically. it's not about changing much. no, the commission's intention was to make noise reduction measures more uniform across europe, as it was concerned that different countries had different noise reduction measures, which had to be defined for different reasons, and that this would have created uncertainty for all stakeholders. that was the reason. that is a commendable intention. it is only often that when the commission is about to do something, it sometimes loses the necessary measure and the necessary insight that not everything really needs to be regulated by the commission. that was the case here, too. what did the european commission want? the european commission wanted a de facto law which would allow it to repeal national noise control measures for airports if they did not meet certain criteria, even after long mediation procedures which were concluded to everyone's satisfaction. the vast majority of this house felt that such a measure would not really make sense, that this is precisely the principle that many people in europe reject, that annoys many people in europe: the european union interferes in many things even though it is not necessary and could have been regulated at national level. we have then found a solution together with the commission and together with the council which, in my view, takes these matters into account and ensures that there is no undue interference by the european commission, that measures which are being taken in a sensible way at national level can also be taken at national level in the future, but that it is also possible for the commission to be informed of the latest developments and to comment on them where necessary. i think that this package makes sense overall, and as i said, the aim of this legislation was not to re-regulate things, to re-interpret things, to develop other noise control criteria. i would like to see a different regulation or directive for that. i would also think it would be sensible to create something like that. but that wasn't our job. our task was simply to ensure that the principle of subsidiarity was upheld. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank the shadow reporters. it was a very constructive working together. it is good that we have worked together to achieve a good result, and that is the point of political action, namely, despite differences of opinion, to achieve a good result by working together.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would like to thank mr leichtfried, who has been very active in negotiations with all of us, and i would also like to thank the council for its agreement, which has now prevented interference with local noise regulations at airports. that's hard enough to do. anyone who's been through a trial like this knows that. the commission has already made a number of proposals. why do i say sorry? because a balanced approach means that there is no night rest or night flight ban, but at most perhaps noise-cancelling windows. so we still have a problem here. this is a problem which can spread to other areas. because if we start to weigh up the right to health, the right to a healthy environment against the profit interests of a few companies, then we are on the wrong track. it can spread to food, it can spread to industrial gases, and it can spread to everything. that 's why i brought my biggest ... (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. my question relates to the research efforts of the european union. we have now decided on horizon 2020 and here are the joint ventures which are very much concerned with air transport issues. do you think that could lead to significant reductions?
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to go. i think that's pretty much all that's been said. i would like to take this opportunity to thank once again all the colleagues who have worked constructively on this legislation. i would also like to make a comment, because this is probably my last speech in this parliament during this period. there are other colleagues, there are other people here who are always against everything. they never work on anything themselves, they see their main task partly in rolling around in the plenary. they are in favour of restricting the rights of the european parliament, or even abolishing it altogether. if you look at our results here, and especially at this law, we have made it a better law than the commission has proposed. these people are actually for worse laws. these people are really for the citizens of europe not being able to have a say in who makes these laws. these people are really against democracy in europe. ladies and gentlemen, i must tell you that i am of the opposite opinion: i am in favour of a strong, confident parliament that creates more democracy in europe.
the commission has already done so. the so-called horse meat scandal has led to promises to consumers of an early warning system, improved food controls and greater transparency in the food chain. the draft regulation now provides for the exact opposite, namely an obligation of secrecy. the official must weigh whether the business or public interest disclosure is to be valued higher. this is a problem which, given the threat of legal action that is in the air - and this has already been shown by the german consumer information act - has always led to officials keeping their findings about food controls secret. that is not in the interest of the consumer. i would also like to agree with the second chamber of the austrian parliament, which has submitted a motion for a resolution on subsidiarity, on the other two motions, on animal health and on plant pests. the draft animal health regulation provides for 130 delegated acts, some of which are intended to cover long-term prevention measures! i also believe that the problems that can arise in terms of pest infestation and plant disease outbreaks are mostly regional. it's very rare that this is once transregional. so why do i need a europe-wide regulation? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. that is the view of the second chamber of the austrian parliament, and that is my view too. i shall therefore reject all three motions.
i have to say, madam president, there are more than 700 financial market lobbying organisations in brussels. 450 of them are not even registered in the transparency register. this is more than 1 700 financial market lobbyists, four times as many as there are in the commission when it comes to financial market regulation. these lobbyists are in high-level groups, expert groups of the commission, they hang out in intergroups, and they host lunch parties. this, of course, affects the legislation. this is precisely why we urgently need an even more comprehensive transparency register, a transparency register which is mandatory. a transparency register, which includes the council, which i regret to say i miss once again tonight, and a transparency register, which also includes the law firms, because they are increasingly acting as economic lobbyists. accordingly, it is of course also important that clients are disclosed where such economic interests are involved.
i have to say, madam president, my question is directed to commissioner borg. the european commission gives about €5 billion a year to non-governmental organisations. what is the european commission's position on compliance? do you regularly check whether these ngos are also receiving funds from tax havens or offshore companies? and, of course, if there is a subsidy, what about the transparency of the selection procedures? do you think that there is a need for a new level of transparency here, in the european sense, not only as regards those who receive this support directly, but also as regards those who are behind these groups?
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. first of all, i would like to thank mrs mcintyre very much, because i believe that job creation is the order of the day. we have millions of young people out of work. in some countries it is only 5 to 10%, in others it is up to 50%. so what can we do to create new jobs that are well-paid, interesting, innovative and future-oriented? i would like to thank the european commission, commissioner tajani, in particular, for launching this inquiry. what are the eu regulations that are causing problems for our companies? what regulations are destroying jobs in europe? i think we should call the child by its name. there are enough regulations to drive manufacturing and industrial enterprises out of europe. we have lost 8% of industry in europe since 2008, and you wonder why new jobs are not being created in interesting areas. it starts with making it attractive in school to learn how to be self-employed, how to do interesting things very easily. the biggest barrier, of course, is when someone who is selfemployed takes on the first employee. it is not enough to be a lawyer with a very long education to be able to apply only part of the labour law legislation correctly. and i think we have to point out that for a one-man operation, when it takes on its first employee, it is of course a huge risk, and it is exposing itself to a big problem here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. is there the necessary sme test, is there the necessary impact assessment or is there a so-called sme test, as is done in germany? how can we ensure that jobs are secured? the best and most important thing would be legislation to create new, future-oriented jobs. how can we motivate young people who are willing to do more? have you ever dared to think about what incentives you need to give someone to become self-employed? what incentives do we put in place to get someone to hire their first employees? unfortunately, we are currently very strong in a system of punishment, a system of liability, which can lead very quickly to big problems. the first failure in particular always involves correspondingly high risks. while in america you can get a new job and start a new project quickly, here in europe you often find yourself stuck in a life of problems. this is why this survey of over a thousand companies and business associations is very interesting, because it shows that companies are facing very big problems, especially in the chemical sector with reach . i remember that we had already studied this with sme europe, and that it was very complex and time-consuming, especially because small and mediumsized enterprises were excluded. they can't afford these licensing requirements anymore. firstly, they do not have the staff to do it properly, and secondly, of course, they do not have the financial resources to do it properly. the fact is that the exporting companies have a huge problem with vat. it often takes an infinite amount of time for the money to be returned, and i think that here too we must see which clearing houses, which one-stop shops, which transparent procedures we can implement in the future. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the safety of products and the market surveillance of products. i would like to express my appreciation for the recent efforts made in the area of professional qualifications in data protection and contract management, the shortened payment deadlines and, of course, the simplified accounting rules. we see progress. but let's get on with it, i think in the next period it is our job to really get our way here in creating new jobs. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
author, reply to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. - mr president, mrs ţicău, i have to ask you a question. i believe that the european investment fund has made a good effort to provide risk capital guarantees and equity loans to small and mediumsized enterprises. we know we have the biggest leverage here. the money invested will bring about 25 to 30 times the financial framework that is then available, and of course many jobs will be created. but in the end, 1 billion euros is not a large sum in this area. the loss of bank financing, especially as a result of basel ii and basel iii, cannot be compensated for in this area. but i think that in future we should make sure that the european investment fund also receives more funds from the european level.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on regional development. - mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i'll be right with you. i am pleased to hear that access to loans and financial instruments is to be facilitated. i would also like to say, from the point of view of the committee of the regions, that this is essential. it's not just about shutting down businesses, but it's about supporting those people who have the entrepreneurial spirit, the entrepreneurial will, giving them all the opportunities. we have a lot of opportunities under the european structural and investment funds to do this, i.e. the best information on starting up a business, on setting up a company, on networking, on access to funding, on access - as you yourself have mentioned - to new markets. the important thing in all of this is: it is not about the number of new businesses, it is about the number of companies that survive the first five years and can establish themselves on the market, and then - and this is very important in times of high unemployment, and especially in times of high youth unemployment - have the opportunity or have created the conditions to create additional jobs themselves and to employ young people. we need to support this too, so that it is easier for companies to provide these opportunities to young people.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i must warn the voters and all those present here about the still-member martin ehrenhauser. honest is the opposite of honest! here in parliament, ehrenhauser recorded private phone calls with his fellow assistant friends, then baselessly and against his better judgment, he reported those colleagues to the prosecutor's office. ehrenhauser is under investigation for his alleged involvement in the mass interception of private e-mails from us members of parliament last autumn. he bought into his mandate in 2001, and the one who did is now his highly paid assistant in vienna, running his campaign. that too will be investigated. ehrenhauser was with the liberals, then he was with the conservative party, now he's working for the communists in front of the federal chancellery in vienna. he is a baseless opportunist and a fanatic, and i can only warn the european union against such people. she must not be made a pawn of such people.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we did it and we kept our word. today marks the adoption of a major project in response to the experience of the crisis, the next major step in european integration and the establishment of an important insurance policy for european citizens. the banking union is our insurance against the taxpayer being taken advantage of in the event of bank failures. we are making europe's banks more stable and more resilient. the new capital rules create rules and standards for all european banks. joint supervision at the ecb ensures that rules are applied in the same way everywhere. there is a rapid reaction capability through 'testaments' for all banks under the bank insolvency law. at the same time, we are creating more security for retail investors by quickly withdrawing the protected eur 100 000 within seven days. the deposit guarantee fund is being set up. bail-in in the event of insolvency is becoming the norm, and we are starting to set up a bank resolution fund. one of the main objectives of our efforts is therefore secured: no more use of taxpayers' money to rescue banks. commissioner, we have also adopted the banker boni scheme as part of the implementation of basel iii. on 4 march 2014, they submitted a delegated regulation setting out detailed criteria for identifying risk holders covered by this restriction. we as legislators have set clear rules and we demand that the supervisory authorities and the european commission do everything possible to implement them consistently. this includes, in our view, that if a bank considers that a person is not a risk-taker within the meaning of the regulation, an ex-ante emergency notification must be sent to the competent authorities. the commission's proposal raises a great deal of questions for us in this respect. we do not want loopholes, we do not tolerate loopholes. we want the banker-bonus system to be implemented one-on-one, and that is why i am asking you to make a statement and to take a clear position so that this question mark can be cleared up.
in writing. today's vote and completion of the banking union brings us a significant step closer to our objective of ensuring greater stability in european financial markets. the banking union is a great step forward, it tightens the rules, it will make a major contribution to financial stability and it will save taxpayers from having to defend bad decisions by banks in the future. but we also urgently need further legislation: a rapid introduction of the financial transaction tax on a broad basis. the tax was supposed to be introduced on 1 january 2014 and has now been postponed again to 2016! what good is the banking union if we have institutions that are 'too big to fail'? we need a separate banking system! the separation of credit/deposit business from investment banking must not be done half-heartedly! the commission proposal needs to be improved considerably we need a mandatory separation of commercial and investment banking and the regulation of shadow banking! it is regrettable that we have not been able to adopt these measures during this parliamentary term. we must be bold to continue these initiatives if we want sound financial markets.
in writing. the necessary decisions on banking union will enable the european union to better prevent and respond to banking crises in the future. all european citizens could have saved a lot of money if the banking union had been in place for a longer period of time - only in austria is the bailout of the banks taking up large sums of taxpayers' money. the implementation is therefore an important success. the banks will have to finance the risks they take in future, first and foremost themselves, not the taxpayers or the savers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. the need for more regulation was acknowledged by some neoliberal forces, who were convinced of its need, in the wake of the financial and economic crisis. it is to be hoped that we will not forget these lessons and that the banking union will be the first step towards a paradigm shift in european economic policy.
the commission has already done so. i am pleased that my report on consumer protection in the supply chain is being dealt with alongside the two important regulations on product safety and market surveillance. with the two legislative proposals we are sending as a parliament in the context of our last plenary session another important signal for the protection of almost half a billion consumers. this is not just about the functioning of the internal market, but also about guaranteeing fundamental rights. consumer protection is enshrined in article 38 of the charter of fundamental rights, which provides for a high level of consumer protection. i believe that this means giving all consumers throughout the union access to quality and affordable utilities. this is an important prerequisite for ensuring social and territorial cohesion within europe. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a breach of the directive is a welcome step towards the creation of a european consumer protection area. the term 'public service provider' is not defined at community level and is sometimes used in an inflationary way. the commission has also decided to initiate the procedure laid down in article 93 (2) of the treaty in respect of the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women. there are also differences in interpretation between member states as to which services must be provided by providers of public services. all this has led to a veritable confusion of concepts. nevertheless, all, or at least most, of the services have common elements. these are all services which are fundamental to life and to the social and cultural participation of people in european society. the consumer does not have a choice as to whether he or she is to obtain the service, but only as to which service provider he or she chooses to obtain it from. thus, a super-/subordination relationship often arises between the service provider on the one hand and the consumer on the other. the report focuses on four key areas, all of which have been liberalised in the last decade: energy, telecommunications, public transport and postal services. the expectations of liberalization at the time - cheaper prices, better choice, new jobs - did not always come to fruition. in many places, the existing supply structures were dismantled, with the result that consumers were disadvantaged. the economic crisis has put these services under particular financial pressure and they are therefore in danger of not being able to fulfil their mission of providing universal care, including for groups in need, at all or only to a limited extent. the discussions in the committee on such a subject were naturally controversial. the main issue was which level, in the sense of the subsidiarity principle, was responsible for the necessary improvements. the priority responsibility of the member states was emphasized in unison. we have nevertheless been able to agree on common positions which concern the european level. in the energy sector, cost accuracy and greater transparency are required: companies should make all information on prices, price changes and contract changes accessible and public in an easily understandable form. in the field of telecommunications, it is necessary to facilitate the switching of consumers from one provider of electronic communications services to another without incurring switching costs or additional charges. the same applies to public transport, which people should have access to.although the negotiations were sometimes very difficult, i am pleased that we have managed to achieve an outcome that is also relevant to the processes pursued by the commission at european level. i thank the shadow rapporteurs for their constructive cooperation and hope that my report will provide a useful basis for improving consumer protection in the area of basic social services.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. global production chains often make it difficult to trace the origin of a product. in the eu's rapex alert system for dangerous products, about 10%[nbsp ] of the intercepted goods cannot be traced. the commission has therefore proposed tougher penalties for companies offering potentially dangerous goods. the commission is also proposing to introduce a european blacklist of companies that repeatedly and intentionally violate european safety standards. the new voluntary labelling of 'eu-assessed safety' is also positive. this is important for consumers to know that a product has been independently tested and found safe. the made in label is certainly a very interesting approach, but it only provides information on the last stage of processing. this leaves little room for quality in some sectors of production.
the commission has already done so. it was a very interesting and lively debate. i think it is very important that the european single market, which is the heart of our integration process, has been discussed so intensely. it was also very good that we did not practise in complacency, but discussed very critically different points of view. a very important point was the strengthening of trust. in this context: trust between users and producers, trust between users and suppliers. i believe that it is also a question of the confidence of the european institutions in each other and the confidence of the european institutions in the member states. the social services i have been able to speak of are services which are close to life, where the principle of subsidiarity is something very essential and fundamental. and although one can be very sceptical of any overlapping european regulation in this context, the responsibility of the member states for the security of the supply services should also be recalled. (applause from the centre)
in writing. - the strengthening of economic and monetary union by means of a banking union of the euro area countries is an important step towards european integration in order to break the toxic link between bank and government debt. but not at the expense of our citizens!
in writing. - i have approved the report on consumer protection in the supply of services. consumer rights must be fully respected. the report also contains a number of recommendations on the use of the internet in the provision of services, including the provision of services in the field of telecommunications. it would have been important to emphasize that the water supply must not fall into the hands of mega-corporations. i also find paragraph 19 of the report critical. the finding that cost savings in the postal sector are always passed on to the consumer is thus incorrect. the consumer is definitely not benefiting from savings such as the closure of post offices. the number of delivery options does not necessarily imply automatic improvement either. finally, postal items should always be delivered as quickly as possible, which would be in the interests of every consumer.
in writing. - the report deals with the protection of consumers in the provision of health services. in view of the crisis, the principles of availability, performance and continuity and the development of sectoral action plans should be pursued. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - the report advocates the introduction of technical rules for the issue of inland waterway certificates, which should be valid on all inland waterways in the community, including the rhine. the report should be adopted to improve the inland waterway sector, which can make a significant contribution to climate and environmental protection by simplifying the transport of goods by sea.
in writing. - the report presented deals with the cooperation of the administrative authorities in the proper application of the customs and agricultural regulations. in this case, the rapporteur advocates giving the commission direct access to economic operators and paying particular attention to the protection of personal data.
in writing. - the report presented is in favour of allowing the adjustments to the recommendations of the consultative group of the european parliament's legal services. the commission's role in the european parliament's legal services is being extended and this should be carefully considered before any vote.
in writing. - since a simplified system for the arbitration convention was already introduced in 2011 with the accession of croatia, it is now time to implement it.
in the case of the commission, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the eu parliament will not approve the cross-border admission of gigalinos. it is and remains a national matter whether the 60-ton trucks are allowed to operate. for austria, this is clearly not an option. in austria alone, up to eur 5.4 billion in conversion costs would be incurred if bridges, road banks, motorway parking lots, petrol stations, tunnels and guide rails had to be made suitable for the use of the giant trucks. this is economic nonsense!
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report. apart from my party colleague mr mölzer, none of my austrian colleagues supported the motion. gigaliners are particularly dangerous on inclines and falls, and in overtaking maneuvers. the risk of accidents and the severity of accidents increase: the risk of a passenger car driver being killed in a collision with a 60-ton truck is four times greater than in a collision with a 40-ton truck! if approved, it would require costly road adaptations in my home country of austria: 5.4 billion euros would have to be invested in motorways and expressways. bridges and tunnels, which account for a disproportionate share of the road network in austria, would need to be reinforced, for example in terms of load-bearing capacity, tunnel safety and fire protection. finally, the gigaliners would be a step backwards for the shift of freight transport to rail and would therefore be in contradiction with the eu's white paper on transport! i therefore reject the commission's proposal and have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted for the payment accounts directive because it gives all eu citizens the right to a basic account with basic banking services. in the past, banks have denied this right to certain customers, for example, if students or seasonal workers were unable to prove their permanent residence in the member state because of their work. but a bank account is essential for everyday transactions, such as paying phone bills and finding a job.
i have to say, madam president, the banking package leaflet provides standardised information on investment products designed for retail investors throughout europe. this law will protect small investors from risky and misleadingly labelled financial products and will ensure greater transparency in investment markets. the uniform information will also make it easier for consumers to compare offers. it builds trust. many small investors have been given too little and wrong information and have had to pay for it in the end. the banking package leaflet is also a lesson from the financial crisis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. small investors must not be cheated, they must be protected. i would therefore have liked to have had a broader scope, i.e. a basic information sheet for all savings and investment products offered to retail investors.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative in this area. in rural and remote areas in particular, accident victims who are no longer able to call for help themselves depend on the lucky chance of being discovered in time. the ecall system sends an automatic emergency call signal in the event of a major accident and can dramatically reduce the response time of rescue operations, especially in such cases. i therefore support the decision in principle to introduce ecall by 2017. it is quite sensible to provide this service throughout europe and on the basis of the emergency number 112. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in respect of the use of personal data.
i have to say, madam president, for more than 14 million eu citizens who move or live in another member state for a longer period of time, the free movement of persons is the most important fundamental freedom. it is a fundamental pillar of the internal market. by their willingness to move, these people make a major contribution to the european level of prosperity. it is therefore regrettable that this is not always duly recognised, for example, when entering retirement. it is true that pension rights can be taken with you when you move within the union. this legal right of portability does not yet apply to supplementary pensions, such as those funded by the employer, or to private pensions. the directive now ensures that workers who move to another eu country can retain their supplementary pension rights in the future. as someone whose constituency is in the austrian-bavarian border area, i think it is particularly important that the provisions should also apply to frontier workers. this directive, which unfortunately comes very late, is a major contribution to strengthening the right to free movement of workers and thus also contributes to the better functioning of the internal market, because it generally strengthens confidence and thus the willingness to move.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. our decision today in the european parliament marks a success of generational justice in politics. we also give young people in active employment who want to take advantage of the single european market the security of working in another eu member state and of obtaining their pension and pension rights. the eu is doing an excellent job in this area, which is a real crossborder task. this is the ideal european working environment in which subsidiarity has its place. because we can do better than that in designing our pension, health and care systems in our own countries!
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. - madam president! - what is it? the exploitation of posted workers is a central dilemma in europe and is everywhere. north and south and west and east. often it is through sham missions, through sham independence. collective agreements are being broken, minimum wages are not being paid. one of the many examples comes from my country, austria. at the salzburg slaughterhouse, hungarian workers posted to work up to 70 hours a week in harsh conditions. the minimum wage is not paid as agreed in the collective agreement, nor are social security contributions. this is exploitation, of course, and it is unfair, it is distorted competition. so it is quite clear that certain things absolutely have to be changed. the first is to improve cooperation between public authorities. legal responsibility is a key concern. all subcontractors are to be held liable. finally, it is also necessary to equip the control measures so that the labour inspectorates can also work efficiently. well, what have we got? the cooperation between public authorities is a mixed bag: leaflets, national websites, improved delivery options and the use of imi, the internal market information system. but on the question of liability, i do not think the legal affairs committee went far enough to really protect workers. i therefore, like mrs turunen, have had my name removed from the opinion, because certain minimum conditions must be met. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. there's been these little advances. there are these small improvements for the employees, and that's why you should agree with him. but we're not at the end of the road. i think we're moving on. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr daerden, for his very efficient and constructive cooperation. i was able to work with him as the chief negotiator of the european people's party to successfully implement the network of european labour market administrations initiated by the commission and supported by our committee chairman berès in the trilogue negotiations between the commission, parliament and council. we have another excellent instrument in the fight against unemployment and, moreover, in the prevention of unemployment on the labour market. this is a major additional step. i am pleased to have used the term 'benchlearning' to designate the principle that all eu member states can learn from each other. successful models such as the austrian-style youth training guarantee are already to be used as a matter of course. yes, and we in austria can easily learn from others, for example from scandinavian countries, which are very specifically ensuring that older workers remain fully employed and are not as in many cases bullied out too early. the qualitative and quantitative criteria which are to be applied to the new network of european labour market administrations are of vital importance. they are essential for the subsequent 'benchlearning', which is to be able to accurately assess the success of individual countries. in addition, i welcome the idea of strengthening and promoting the eures european internet address, the portal with well over 100 000 jobs. i am proud to have played an active and concrete part in this eu decision ... (the president withdrew the floor.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to take this opportunity to thank you, commissioner, for your cooperation with the european parliament not only on this subject but on so many other subjects. over 26 million women and men are unemployed in the european union. we must emphasize again and again the particular disaster of young people. after all, there are countries where the unimaginable figure of 50% unemployment is already present when it comes to young people. this is a disaster that we cannot and must not mention often enough. so the questions are: how can we combat this mass unemployment? how can we create jobs? how can we put people back to work? of course, what is needed above all are the major macroeconomic solutions that we social democrats have always stressed: abandoning the harmful austerity policies, returning to more investment, the youth guarantee. but it's also very important to start with the smaller solutions. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. of course, this alone will not eliminate the problem of mass unemployment, but better cooperation between employment services can already make it easier for some people in europe to find a job. and everyone deserves that chance! it is particularly important, once again, to involve those who are particularly well versed in the field, i.e. employers and trade unions, to name just two examples, and of course the ngos. and finally, the whole thing should be binding.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday, 16 april 2014, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on the report by carlos coelho, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing rules for the surveillance of the external maritime borders in the framework of operational cooperation coordinated by the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (com ((2013) 0197[nbsp ]-[nbsp ]c7-0098/2013[nbsp ]-[nbsp ]2013/0106 ((cod)) (a7-0461/2013).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not we all remember the tragedy of lampedusa and similar incidents are constantly happening on europe's maritime borders. the mediterranean is a dangerous place for refugees. the mediterranean, once called the cradle of civilization, seems to be turning into a mass grave. it is estimated that a quarter of the people will not survive this escape across the mediterranean. the regulation on the surveillance of external maritime frontiers, which we shall adopt tomorrow, is a response that is overdue and long awaited by the european institutions. the european union is also taking a very important step towards a more humane approach to refugee protection in europe. this law replaces a council decision which contravenes the crc. the european parliament has made substantial improvements to the commission's draft. the regulation will massively improve the search and rescue of refugees. the definition of border surveillance is no longer limited to the interception of refugees, but is extended to search and rescue. this puts the task of saving lives at the heart of frontex's activities. the operational staff shall receive mandatory training in the fields of fundamental rights, asylum law and applicable law on search and rescue at sea. each operational unit must include at least one person with medical training. also, people who help refugees in emergency situations no longer have to expect to be prosecuted. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the directive. no return shall be granted where an individual and fair asylum procedure is not guaranteed in a third country or where a person is at risk of unlawful persecution in a third country. the so-called pushbacks on the high seas will be prohibited. and european rules also apply to operations in third countries. the main achievement was the strengthening of parliamentary control and supervision of frontex's activities. a regular report will enable us to assess whether their activities are in conformity with the european convention on human rights. i thank the rapporteur, carlos coelho, for his careful and excellent work and my fellow shadow rapporteurs for their collegial cooperation. we have proved with this regulation that we are capable of acting as a european parliament in the field of human rights and that we are prepared, above all, to put forward a political calculation. this is particularly remarkable in the run-up to elections.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is now more than two years since the european court of human rights delivered its landmark hirsi ruling on 24 refugees, finding that their rights had been violated, that they had been returned to libya, where they faced further deportation to somalia, eritrea, where they would have expected torture and other human rights violations. the european court of human rights has ruled that the right to asylum is an individual right and that this regulation that the eu has had so far has to be implemented, that rescue is a priority. i welcome the fact that now, with this new regulation, we have made great strides and i acknowledge the successes: rescue is at the forefront, binding regulations. the member states can no longer interpret for themselves what they want to do. but unfortunately, this hirsi ruling has not been fully implemented. access to interpreters and legal advice shall be granted only when necessary. the 'pushbacks' are still not completely banned. it is also possible that boats or persons may be returned to third countries. this regulation is improving, but it is not good enough. there are still plenty of loopholes. i say quite clearly: the judgments of the european court of human rights must be implemented one by one!
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we 've heard it before: one of the most important demands of european citizens and businesses in the internal market is to simplify vehicle registration. the people want the administrative obstacles and tedious, lengthy procedures to be removed. we know how time-consuming and frustrating it can be to register a car in another country after moving there. we therefore want to simplify matters by ensuring that member states mutually recognise their technical examinations for the purposes of the re-registration. the keyword is "pickerl check". secondly, that a three-month period for the re-registration of a vehicle is fixed uniformly throughout. thirdly, allow vehicle owners to register their vehicles online and give a clear and exhaustive list of reasons for refusal, such as the absence of liability insurance. we have concluded the six key elements with the council in a very good way. the re-registration of a used car will be made more transparent, easier and faster in the future as a result of these negotiations. unfortunately, there has been no real progress in two areas so far because of the council's concerns. on the one hand, because of the form of the act - regulation versus directive - and on the other because the council fears negative effects on tax revenue. the council has therefore requested an impact assessment of the concrete impact on taxation. but this can only be completed in the summer, so we have unfortunately had to put the trilogue negotiations on hold. we're sorry about that. we'd like to have this over as soon as possible. we are not going to vote on the amendments, but we are going to vote on the amendments which have been tabled. we call on the council to agree with us in the autumn, after the impact assessment, on a rapid reduction of the burden on citizens and businesses in the internal market.
i have to say, madam president, on average, every second european owns a motor vehicle, and it should be possible within the single market to take it to another member state. registering a car in one country and then re-registering it in another is often a lot of work and a lot of money, and can be a real obstacle course. the procurement and submission of additional documents alone often requires a considerable amount of time. it is very important that arrangements are finally found to accommodate people who are ready to move. it is about shortening deadlines, simplifying formalities, and reducing bureaucracy. we've done all this beautifully here. i think that the introduction of rfid tags should not complicate matters, because it would also make it possible to create a profile of movement and, in the light of the recent data scandals, it is therefore necessary to exercise particular caution in such matters.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. other i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is my last speech, as it was for joseph daul and daniel cohn-bendit. i also want to wish you both the best for life afterwards. there is certainly, and we will be able to enjoy it. i would also like to thank all the other members for their cooperation. but above all i would like to thank the voters in my country, austria, who have given me the enormous opportunity to contribute to the building of a new, united europe. even before i came here, my first european activity was to bring aid and support to the city of sarajevo on the thousandth day of the siege of that city. it was on this occasion that i first saw the spot from which the heir to the austro-hungarian throne was murdered. but i also saw how close the cathedral, the mosque and the synagogue are to this place. sarajevo was a symbol of the coexistence of religions and cultures in a common city, in a common state - a model indeed. but it only took a few irresponsible politicians who fanned nationalistic hatred to destroy the peaceful coexistence and cooperation. today, in this city of sarajevo, the wounds of the siege and the shelling are as visible as the spot from which gavrilo princip fired his gun. it has been one of the most satisfying tasks for me in this parliament to work with colleagues from several political groups - and especially with doris pack - to make it possible for us to live together again, even in the balkans, in a common europe. the fight against nationalism was the basis of this cooperation. as rapporteur for croatia, i was able to help create a new croatia, where serbs could find their place again. but today, dear colleagues, can we really say that we have learned our lessons from the war which began almost a hundred years ago? new nationalist groups and parties, built on hatred and xenophobia, are rising and many sleepwalkers as christopher clark describes them in his outstanding book on world war one are ignoring the dangers of this new nationalism. unfortunately these groups enjoy growing support because the europe of today is in many ways failing to fulfil the promises politicians gave after the second world war. new divisions between east and west, and north and south, are being created and heightened instead of mitigated. take the labour market in europe. new obstacles are constructed by some of our citizens and new hate-filled prejudices are voiced, for example against the people of romania and bulgaria. at a recent roma event organised by the commission, a prominent speaker, who is even a head of state, placed the responsibility for the prejudices on the roma and not on the societies discriminating against them. activities by many countries against the roma community are just tolerated and accepted. before and during the recent elections in hungary, unbelievable attacks were directed against some members of this parliament and they were called traitors to the national interest because they defended european values. today's nationalism has its roots in the europe of today. nationalism grows on the basis of unacceptably high unemployment, especially for the young. it grows because of a rising gap between the rich and the poor. because of these social imbalances inside europe the nationalists can play their dirty blame game against migrants. instead of helping them, they abuse their misery to raise suspicion and prejudice among the citizens of europe. when there are not enough jobs for everyone, every foreigner is seen as someone who is stealing jobs from our people. when we refrain from reducing the gap between the rich and the poor, the advantaged and the disadvantaged, then it will only be about us the good ones versus them the bad ones. nationalism and xenophobia are inherently aggressive and unjust, but they are nourished and spurred on by poverty, inequality and a growing division in our society. on monday morning i visited the natzweiler-struthof concentration camp, which is only 60 km from parliament. the worst horrors of humanity took place there some decades ago. they were the result of nationalism, racism, xenophobia and anti-semitism. the sleepwalkers in europe who do not see the growing scepticism against the failing europe should wake up and work for a europe of growth, jobs and social fairness, and only a strong and united europe can defend our interests globally, from labour rights to climate change. after the european wars we owe a lot to the rest of the world but to do our part now we have to be united. for example, only a united europe can reject recent attempts like that by putin's russia to stop the enlargement of freedom and prosperity. in this regard, it was particularly sad for me, someone who grew up near the iron curtain fortunately on the western side when i saw recently new barbed wire erected at the so-called border of south ossetia inside georgia. instead of eliminating the borders of today, the russia of today is creating, building and strengthening new borders. it is not surprising, but nevertheless scandalous, that some of our nationalists, even in this parliament, are expressing sympathy, and even support, for putin's action. (applause) i would like to thank but let me express a clear warning. i know it's not always easy to refrain from force, if force is used to annex foreign territory, but we should be cautious. local conflicts can easily grow into world wars, as we saw after the assassination in sarajevo. the only sustainable defence is by strengthening the european union, making it more attractive for our own citizens and in consequence for our neighbours. therefore we in this parliament should stubbornly defend the european way, as opposed to just the cooperation of 28 national ways. this is because the more europe is based solely on country-to-country cooperation the more it becomes vulnerable to the attacks of some member states and the nationalists in these member states. i would remind you that a few days after the assassination in sarajevo, a british admiral said farewell to german sailors in kiel with the following words: 'friends today, friends in the future, friends forever.' some weeks later war broke out and they were fighting against each other. friendship is not enough. we need strong european institutions to guarantee peace. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. maybe nationalism does not lead directly to war but, in the long run, nationalism will cost us social peace, security, prosperity and international influence. in a global world that would be a high price for our citizens to pay. so let's combat nationalism together and wake up the sleepwalkers before it's too late. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. - this directive, which has been under discussion since 2005 and can finally be implemented with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, will bring more flexibility and security to european workers. it has long been possible within the eu to 'take legal pension rights with you to another member state'. the directive now extends this to supplementary pension rights, such as occupational pensions. cash reimbursements for balances in supplementary pension accounts, however small, are only permitted with the explicit consent of the persons concerned. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive. the rules will have to be implemented from 2018 and will therefore continue to contribute to the free movement of persons within the eu.
in writing. - the commission's proposal for legislation on animal health is intended to replace some 40 different eu legislation in this area, some of which is outdated. the proposal aims to create a single, simplified, transparent and clear regulatory framework, which allows for a clear and balanced distribution of tasks and responsibilities between the competent authorities of the member states, the eu institutions, the agricultural sector, animal owners, etc. in the monitoring, prevention and control of various animal diseases. this includes the principle that prevention is better than cure and that veterinary medicinal products must be used responsibly. the proposal focuses on the prevention and control of animal diseases transmissible to animals or humans. animal welfare is of enormous importance for animals, but also for public health, as about 70% of infectious diseases affect both animals and humans. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - global production chains often make it difficult to trace the origin of a product. in the eu's rapex alert system for dangerous products, about 10% of the goods intercepted cannot be traced. the commission has therefore proposed tougher penalties for companies offering potentially dangerous goods. the commission is also proposing to introduce a european blacklist of companies that repeatedly and intentionally violate european safety standards. the new voluntary label 'eu-assessed safety' is also positive. this is important for consumers to know that a product has been independently tested and found safe. the 'made in' label is certainly a very interesting approach, but it only provides information on the last processing step. the report is a step in the right direction in terms of consumer protection, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted for this report because it is a strong statement by the european parliament on the protection of european consumers. the product safety regulation establishes comparable safety standards for all non-food products throughout europe. this will create a comprehensive european safety net. the report also contains a clear commitment to the precautionary principle as a guideline for european product safety policy. only safe products can be traded on the european internal market, and in case of doubt, decisions must be taken in the interests of consumer safety. the report also sets out particularly stringent rules to ensure the safety of vulnerable consumers, such as children. products that are particularly appealing to children must be particularly safe. it is now up to the council to agree on a position so that european consumers can benefit from these rules as quickly as possible.
in the case of the new market surveillance regulation, the report clearly shows that the majority of the european parliament is on the side of consumers. the new regulation aims to strengthen cooperation between national authorities. the european union is also working to improve the efficiency of the information exchange across europe via the eu's rapid alert system (rapex). this is to speed up the implementation of recalls. the introduction of deterrent sanctions is important. i am therefore in favour of fines of up to 10% of annual turnover for companies that violate product safety regulations. the penalties should be even higher if the intended economic advantage is higher. the report also provides for the establishment of a publicly visible list of companies which have repeatedly infringed these rules.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the fact that the united kingdom is not a member of the community. we also enforced the ban on gambling with food. to accelerate high-frequency trading, we are increasing the price leaps from which to trade. if a certain percentage of the deal is cancelled without being paid in order to drive up the price, penalties are incurred. the purely speculative business of ultra-fast transactions is losing its appeal!
in writing. - the european maritime safety agency will be given new tasks through additional funding, such as: two areas where new offshore drilling is taking place are not currently covered (arctic and canary islands/southern portugal). due to the current trials of additional shipping routes and the exploration of new oil and gas reserves, these areas are to be gradually included in the agency's remit in 2015 and 2017. it also requires special equipment to monitor offshore platforms. the agency's operational tasks relate in particular to pollution response and are mainly concerned with discharges which exceed the capacities of the member states and where they require assistance. these central tasks are to protect the environment and protect citizens, and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - many wild plant and animal species are threatened by exploitative trade. in order to ensure their survival, not only must their stocks be regularly checked and monitored, but trade must also be subject to controls so that these species are not endangered and their survival is ensured. the report on the codification of definitions must therefore also be approved.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted. in order to maintain the long-standing trade relations in the fisheries sector with seychelles, the recommendation for a new fisheries agreement between seychelles and the eu should be approved.
in writing. - the protocol is to be welcomed as it respects the principles of a responsible fisheries policy and responsible fishing and creates additional jobs. the agreement also provides a sustainable fishing environment for eu vessels targeting highly migratory tuna and related species in the south-west indian ocean.
in writing. - the report submitted is in principle without contradiction, but the substantial increase in financial compensation had to be considered and weighed against the political instability in madagascar.
in writing. - the recommendation presented is entirely to be welcomed, as a readmission arrangement would deepen cooperation between the eu and korea and also address the problem of illegal immigration. the report of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs should therefore be supported.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the eu and korea have had very positive relations so far and the recommendation to conclude the agreement is to be agreed.
in writing. - the recommendation presented can be considered to be quite conclusive, since, in addition to the strengthening of political relations through the eastern partnership and the conclusion of the association agreement, it also offers the opportunity to further promote relations in the fields of culture, education, environment, technology and science, as well as to expand personal contacts and sectoral cooperation.
in writing. - the reduced excise duty on rum and liqueur products approved in the autonomous region of madeira and the autonomous region of the azores does not distort competition in the internal market but compensates for the additional costs of production;
in writing. - the report deals with the special tax 'octroi de mer' applicable in the french overseas departments. the rapporteur is in favour of extending the special levy for six months, and this request is quite understandable, since it would avoid a legal vacuum. in this sense, a positive vote ensures legal certainty during the transitional period.
in writing. - the focus of this pilot project is clearly on reducing administrative burdens, simplifying internal processes and saving time. the report is therefore to be approved.
in writing. - i voted in favour of draft amending budget no[nbsp ]1/2014 as it stands for technical, legislative and procedural details which would ensure a proper implementation and use of the budget for 2014, on which parliament has already agreed and voted. by voting in favour we allow the implementation of the capital increase proposed by the european investment fund, which will ease smesʼ access to finance through the horizon 2020 and cosme programmes for economic growth.
in the case of the european capital of culture, the european commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european capital of culture is a european city of culture. to increase its scope and effectiveness, it soon became an action of the european union. the european capitals of culture is one of the most successful eu initiatives of recent years. the new proposal sets out the order in which the countries will nominate cities for the title by 2033. in addition to the arrangement whereby two member states each share the title for one year, it is proposed that eu candidate countries or potential candidates should also be given the opportunity to designate a european capital of culture every three years.
in the light of the current economic crisis and the high level of youth unemployment, the member states are faced with the increasingly important challenge of providing young people with a quality education. the approach to be taken should strike a balance between the use of new technologies in education and the need to maintain and improve traditional methods of teaching and learning and to protect children's health. europe and the world are facing an increased demand for education. by 2030, there will be an estimated 414 million students in higher education worldwide, and education and training systems cannot meet this demand. as 90% of jobs in the near future will require digital skills, education systems need to provide these skills.
in writing. - the transposition of the posting of workers directive has been a long overdue step in the fight against social fraud by companies. the spö-eu delegation has agreed to the compromise between the european parliament and the council of the eu because we have been able to achieve success in some areas. for example, the new control measures are important for many member states, while in austria all controls under the law on combating social dumping will continue to be possible. for the spö-eu delegation, this compromise does not go as far as we social democrats had demanded and had brought in parliament. nevertheless, the compromise was negotiated with the conservative-liberal majority in both the council and parliament, with great difficulty. the amendments tabled by stephen hughes and other colleagues from our group have been supported by the spö-eu delegation because they reflect the very social democratic positions which we have taken throughout the negotiation process and which were adopted in the committee on employment and social affairs. the amendments tabled by the gue group are good in substance, but they do not reflect our position in the negotiations or the outcome of the negotiations themselves. finally, we spö members abstained on some amendments, although they would have made further improvements in order not to jeopardise final adoption. small gains for employees are better than none.
in writing. - the transposition of the posting of workers directive has been a long overdue step in the fight against social fraud by companies. the spö-eu delegation has agreed to the compromise between the european parliament and the council of the eu because we have been able to achieve success in some areas. for example, the new control measures are important for many member states, while in austria all controls under the law on combating social dumping will continue to be possible. for the spö-eu delegation, this compromise does not go as far as we social democrats had demanded and had brought in parliament. nevertheless, the compromise was negotiated with the conservative-liberal majority in both the council and parliament, with great difficulty. the amendments tabled by stephen hughes and other colleagues from our group have been supported by the spö-eu delegation because they reflect the very social democratic positions which we have taken throughout the negotiation process and which were adopted in the committee on employment and social affairs. the amendments tabled by the gue group are good in substance, but they do not reflect our position in the negotiations or the outcome of the negotiations themselves. in the end, we spö members abstained on some amendments, although they would have made further improvements in order not to jeopardise final adoption. small gains for employees are better than none.
in writing. - the transposition of the posting of workers directive has been a long overdue step in the fight against social fraud by companies. the spö-eu delegation has agreed to the compromise between the european parliament and the council of the eu because we have been able to achieve success in some areas. for example, the new control measures are important for many member states, while in austria all controls under the law on combating social dumping will continue to be possible. for the spö-eu delegation, this compromise does not go as far as we social democrats had demanded and had brought in parliament. nevertheless, the compromise was negotiated with the conservative-liberal majority in both the council and parliament, with great difficulty. the amendments tabled by stephen hughes and other colleagues from our group have been supported by the spö-eu delegation because they reflect the very social democratic positions which we have taken throughout the negotiation process and which were adopted in the committee on employment and social affairs. the amendments tabled by the gue group are good in substance, but they do not reflect our position in the negotiations or the outcome of the negotiations themselves. finally, we spö members abstained on some amendments, although they would have made further improvements in order not to jeopardise final adoption. small gains for employees are better than none.
in writing. - the transposition of the posting of workers directive has been a long overdue step in the fight against social fraud by companies. the spö-eu delegation has agreed to the compromise between the european parliament and the council of the eu because we have been able to achieve success in some areas. for example, the new control measures are important for many member states, while in austria all controls under the law on combating social dumping will continue to be possible. for the spö-eu delegation, this compromise does not go as far as we social democrats had demanded and had brought in parliament. nevertheless, the compromise was negotiated with the conservative-liberal majority in both the council and parliament, with great difficulty. the amendments tabled by stephen hughes and other colleagues from our group have been supported by the spö-eu delegation because they reflect the very social democratic positions which we have taken throughout the negotiation process and which were adopted in the committee on employment and social affairs. the amendments tabled by the gue group are good in substance, but they do not reflect our position in the negotiations or the outcome of the negotiations themselves. finally, we spö members abstained on some amendments, although they would have made further improvements in order not to jeopardise final adoption. small gains for employees are better than none.
in writing. - the report suggests that, due to the ineffectiveness of the 1993 directive, the same committee should continue to be responsible for monitoring the implementation of the directive and that member states should report on the implementation of the revised directive within approximately three years of its adoption. this amendment is necessary to enable the member states and the commission, together with the european parliament, to discuss ways of implementing the objectives of the directive more effectively. the report also contains amendments relating to the internal market information system and clarifying the need to comply with data protection rules.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. the european clarification of the return of illegally transferred cultural goods is also important in view of european history and its impact up to the present day.
in the next three years, eu member states must halve the consumption of plastic bags, but they can choose how to do it. this is an important step for our environment, our health, our landscape and for conserving resources. in 2010, an estimated 98.6 billion plastic bags were used in the eu. that is about 198 plastic bags per eu citizen. most of the carrying bags are made of lightweight plastic, which is less likely to be reused than plastic bags made of stronger material. austria uses 51 plastic bags per person per year, well below the eu average. so i very much welcome the approach of the european commission, which is to let the eu countries decide for themselves how to reduce the consumption of plastic bags. each country has its own circumstances and should decide for itself whether taxes, levies or bans are the best way to go!
in writing. - the protection of human life is a priority for all eu action. the most important thing, therefore, especially in reports like this, is to ensure that human rights are respected and that human lives are not endangered in any way. the trafficking and smuggling of human beings in the mediterranean has increased dramatically in recent years, and this geographical area needs to be better monitored. this is not primarily about surveillance; the protection of human life is the highest priority.
in writing. - the rapporteur attaches importance to safeguarding the financial interests of the union, and this is a very welcome approach. the report is particularly welcome in relation to the ttip negotiations with the usa and the sharp criticism of the secrecy associated with arbitration. the commission is hereby instructed to inform both the member states concerned and the european parliament and the european council of any investigations, inquiries and procedural reports. the report is a good example of how the european union can be more effective in its efforts to combat fraud.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which establishes new funding rules for political parties and european political foundations. the aim of the report is to propose a new financing method which is done according to parliamentʼs resolution ‘which considers that ... the financing of european political parties and european political foundations should be improvedʼ. political parties should be financed through a new instrument, through ‘contributionsʼ, and european political foundations should still be financed through an operating grant as in the past. in my opinion this report is a very technical and organisational detail and instrument in the actual budgetary system of the european institutions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it represents a set of rules established during trilogues and negotiations between the european institutions (parliament, the commission and the council) with regard to the financial regulation. in our opinion this needed a couple of amendments in order to make the ‘carry-overʼ rules more efficient and relevant to the new financing programmes and proposals (new mff programming). in adopting this report the financial regulation will be amended in accordance with the outcome of the last negotiations and adapted to the new multiannual financial framework and financing programmes proposed (and adopted) by the commission and parliament.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative of proposing a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a disaster. this report identified common approaches both in terms of the basis for calculation and the size of the vessels to be considered.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the rapporteur advocates preventive and prevention measures against the spread, as biodiversity and regional ecosystems can suffer great damage. the involvement of member states is crucial, as some neobiota are native to some regions and invasive and harmful in others. in these cases, the rapporteur proposes more flexibility within the regulation.
in writing. - the rapporteur considers that the official entry into force of the doha amendment is one of the most important objectives for the european union, as the kyoto protocol makes a crucial contribution to the global effort to combat climate change. the report is therefore to be welcomed as a sign of the need to protect the climate and to combat global warming.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. this is a waste of money for the eu budget and, subsequently, for taxpayers, which could be used to invest in sustainable growth and jobs. the proposal aims to protect effectively the financial interests of the union and of european citizens. the aim is to establish minimum rules in this area and to lay down minimum and maximum levels of sanctions.
in writing. - the report presented deals with the protection of the european union's financial interests and the related fight against fraud and other criminal activities. in this sense, the report is to be welcomed, since special attention should be paid to safeguarding financial property, especially in times of impending insolvency.
in writing. - the fact that the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2012 was clearly misdirected with regard to the eu parliament is clear from this report. instead of referring to a seat, namely the original seat of the eu parliament in strasbourg, which in its historical and symbolic importance would be preferable to the seat of a centralistic brussels, the 'wandering circus' moves back and forth between these two cities year after year. in this area, as in other areas, the savings potential has not been sufficiently exploited. in my view, this is fatal at a time when the eu is in a deep economic and financial crisis. that is why i voted against this report.
mr president, the system of own resources of the eu should and must take off the burden of the financial contribution from the member states. the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), especially article 311, refers to financial autonomy and explicitly specifies that the eu has the possibility to establish new own resources or to abolish existing own resources. in this sense, in the legislative procedure for the adoption of own resources, the council should act unanimously and after consulting the european parliament. it did not happen again, taking into consideration the limited changes proposed by the council, such as: one, changing the ceiling for payment appropriations to 1.23[nbsp ]% of the eu gni; two, changing the ceiling for commitment appropriations to 1.29[nbsp ]% of the eu gni; and three, ignoring the fact that the commission proposal on how to make own resources available – which would have actually decreased the member states’ gni contributions – still needs to be analysed and worked on. taking into consideration the current economic situation across europe, this change is still insignificant for the national budgets of the member states – and, looking further, for the budgets of our citizens. bearing this in mind, and the fact that we need fully to respect the principle of fiscal sovereignty of the member states, i believe we should accept and accelerate the proposal, the high-level group activity and own resources system implementation in order to be able to present concrete and real results to our taxpayers.
the next item is the vote on the motions for resolutions.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i am not going to go into detail. we shall begin with the explanations of vote which could not be dealt with this afternoon. the explanations of vote on the points we have just voted on will follow. we have received many requests for oral explanations of vote. we'll all be able to perform by 7:00. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - the report deals with the details of the exercise of the european parliament's right of inquiry. it is intended to give parliament extended powers to set up committees of inquiry to investigate breaches of union law and maladministration in its application. the european parliament may impose sanctions where appropriate, but not against individuals, which is a justifiable approach.
in the case of the european parliament, the commission has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is consulted on the draft budget. the link between these levels must be maintained and nurtured, as it is the basis for the necessary changes.
in writing. - finally, we have a more responsive and less bureaucratic instrument to act quickly in the event of disaster. the eusf was established in 2002 to provide financial assistance to member states in the event of disasters. so far, according to the eu commission, 23 different european countries have been helped with over €3.5 billion. but it was too slow. eu aid for the 2012 lavamund flood victims was not released until a year later. from now on, there will be faster and more flexible assistance for victims in the event of damage to the eusf!
in writing. - this directive lays down harmonised minimum rules for member states on the definition of criminal offences and sanctions in relation to money laundering. according to the ecb, 184 000 counterfeit euro coins and 531 000 counterfeit euro banknotes were withdrawn from circulation in 2012. it is estimated that counterfeiting of euro banknotes cost the european union some eur 500 million in 2002. as the second most widely used currency in the world, the euro is naturally a particular target for criminal syndicates that counterfeit money. the directive is therefore very welcome, even though i would have liked to see minimum penalties, unlike the council.
the explanations of vote are closed. (the sitting was suspended at 6.45 p.m. and resumed at 7.00 p.m.)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the decision of the european court of justice on 8 april this year is indeed something of a liberating blow for civil rights on this continent, for 500 million citizens. the european court of justice, as my colleague judith sargentini has already said, has ruled against fear and intimidation and in favour of fundamental rights. and for that, he really deserves a big thank you. i want to briefly touch on the history of why and how this stone came into being in the first place. this was in early 2012, when my green austrian national council colleague, our justice spokesman albert steinhauser, together with the working group on data retention decided to bring a case against data retention to the austrian constitutional court. it took a few months, and a total of 11139 signatures were collected - mine was there - and this was the largest constitutional lawsuit of the republic of austria. the austrian constitutional court has also accepted the action based on the matters already discussed today. the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should, in the case of a case of infringement of fundamental rights, give its opinion on the application of the principle of proportionality. and even if there are isolated cases, it is clear that the most effective means have not been used. whether there are any positive effects in these individual cases is not really certain either. these serious intrusions into privacy are disproportionate. i am very glad that the austrian constitutional court then went to the european court of justice and that court supported the concerns of the austrians who submitted these signatures and said: disproportionate and above all inefficient. that is to say, with this judgment it is clear that this data retention and the laws that exist at national level should also be abolished.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the ecj's ruling on data retention is an important piece of case law. the german journalist heribert prantl even said that this would mark a turning point in the protection of fundamental rights in europe. however, the ruling comes at a historic moment in the protection of private data. it's a reminder to all those who believed in the wake of 9/11 that the mass accumulation of data on inventory and the creation of oversized data warehouses inside and outside europe would lead to greater security. the court of justice found that the constant feeling of being watched was a source of insecurity for european citizens. in his opinion, the retention of data constitutes a violation of fundamental rights. it is therefore incompatible with european law. the court held that the directive infringed the principles of necessity, proportionality and proportionality. the judgment proves that the european institutions are working. but at the same time it is a wake-up call that we must take very seriously. to simply go along with the agenda would be fatal. for the european legislator, the judgment means that he must implement it and, in a future directive, ensure that the framework is narrow and must be differentiated on an individual basis. whether data retention is still useful is a valid question. the concerns of the citizens must be taken into account. the european legislator is also called upon to review existing legal bases such as the eprivacy directive, various passenger data agreements or swift for their compliance with fundamental rights, and to do so quickly. the member states must also review their legal position, since they can no longer rely on this european legal basis. in certain cases they will probably have to amend or repeal their laws. in any case, the time for a blanket, undifferentiated, random round-trip storage is over.
member of the commission. - mr president, as i said initially, the commission welcomes this judgment by the court, as it reflects very much the criticisms that we had in our own evaluation a couple of years ago. we are assessing the full implications of the judgment. it takes time and we need to carefully assess all this with our legal experts. however, a few things are clear already. first of all, as you have all said, this declaration on invalidity takes place immediately from the date the directive entered into force. that means that we are back to the situation before the adoption of the data retention directive in 2006 and that is also why the commission has taken the necessary steps to withdraw the case against germany and that is why the fines given to sweden will be paid back. it is also clear from the judgment that member states’ national legislations are not directly concerned by the ruling. each member state has to assess whether there is a need to change national legislation. it will be up to national jurisdictions to decide if the legislation in question fully respects the fundamental rights. there were some questions on the pnr and the tftp agreement. of course we are carefully assessing and reassessing this, but it seems that the agreements provide for enough specific safeguards and are reviewed regularly by a team which includes representatives of the national data protection authorities. we do not see any link between the court ruling and these agreements. but we will probably come back to this. concerning the european pnr directive that the commission has proposed and that we have discussed many times in this plenary, these two issues are not comparable. the proposed eu pnr directive addresses all the issues and concerns raised by the court ruling on the data retention directive because it would strictly regulate the access to data and its subsequent use. it will be limited to trained experts in a passenger information unit. the use of the data will be limited to the combating of serious crime and terrorism and any processing of sensitive data is prohibited. the proposal also includes effective safeguards to ensure protection of the data. we are ready to work with you – with the next parliament – on the proposal for the eu pnr directive. we can assess together whether the strict limitations and safeguards can be further strengthened. there was a recently adopted paper by the eu fundamental rights agency, which provides very useful inspiration. what will happen now? it is too early to say. mr weber, we cannot present anything in a couple of days. this needs very careful assessment. if there were to be a new proposal presented – and i said ‘if’ – that would, of course, take into account the outcome of the court ruling but also the data protection reform that has been debated here so many times. we need to see progress on this. you might recall that we discussed a couple of weeks ago the post-stockholm programme and the paper by the commission ‘an open and secure europe’. we said in that paper that we would review the data retention directive. that was written before the judgment. taking into account the data protection reforms: if there were to be a proposal on a new type of data retention directive, taking into account what the court says, of course that will be dealt with in the normal legislation, certainly with full participation by the european parliament, thus guaranteeing the quality of it. but it is too early to say; i am sure that we will be able to come back to this when we have carefully looked at and analysed all the legal aspects of this.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy - mr president, the issues addressed in parliament’s draft resolution are diverse, and very important and wide-ranging. let me comment, on behalf of the vice-president/high representative, catherine ashton, on some elements that could help in fuelling today’s debate. the european union intends to carry on promoting and defending, internally and externally, the very principles on which it was built – respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. with the adoption, in june 2012, of the eu strategic framework on human rights and democracy, the european union recalled that, throughout the world, women and men demanded to live in liberty, dignity and security, in open and democratic societies underpinned by human rights and the rule of law. the eu committed itself to enhanced efforts to uphold the universality of these values. one of the first outcomes of the 2012 strategy was the adoption of european union guidelines on freedom of religion or belief, to be used in its external policies. these guidelines have been used in delegations and headquarters to better engage with third countries, bilaterally and multilaterally, notably in the fight against all forms of intolerance and discrimination on grounds of religion or belief and with the implementation of the relevant un resolutions in this field. furthermore, in a joint statement of 20 september 2012, the high representative and the representatives of three organisations – the organisation of islamic cooperation, the african union and the arab league – called for peace and tolerance between religions and expressed their common belief in the fundamental importance of religious freedom and tolerance. they also condemned any advocacy of religious hatred. religious beliefs were not to be abused to fuel extremism and confrontation. they also condemned violence and attacks against diplomatic missions around the world. they asked all political leaders, be they religious or secular, to call for dialogue and tolerance. ‘the only answer to the darkness of intolerance and ignorance is the light of mutual respect, tolerance and dialogue.’ i quote from this statement. high representative/vice-president cathy ashton and the external action service, together with the european union special representative, mr[nbsp ]lambrinidis, have taken this forward at all levels and have condemned religious intolerance and discrimination on grounds of religion or belief, wherever it happens. the high representative herself has been particularly vocal in denouncing violence on the basis of religion, such as in the case of the central african republic, where, on 27 march, she strongly condemned the targeted killings of civilians on the basis of religion and ethnicity and expressed her concern about the vulnerability of minorities, who are increasingly victims of retaliation. while stressing the need to fight impunity, she also expressed support for the efforts made by the transitional authorities to promote dialogue and mediation initiatives. the european union has been engaged in initiatives of intercultural and inter-religious dialogue in the spirit of openness, engagement and mutual understanding, including in the framework of unesco, the un alliance of civilisations, the anna lindh foundation and the istanbul process. with the signature of the unesco-eu memorandum of understanding in 2012, a strengthened cooperation was launched. we share common goals, notably to consolidate democracy and human rights, preserve peace and foster sustainable development. this is why the european union clearly promotes stronger multilateral cooperation. eu funding to unesco projects includes, for example, support for training for young syrian refugees in jordan, the expert facility aiming at strengthening governance for culture in 13 countries, the safeguarding of living cultural heritage in egypt, jordan and lebanon and the preservation and restoration of syrian cultural heritage, or of timbuktu’s manuscripts. education and culture are key pillars of the democratic society that we want. education will remain a strong part of the overall eu development framework. education shall promote understanding and respect for human rights, inclusion, cultural diversity, lifelong learning and learning to live together, all of which are essential to the realisation of peace, responsible citizenship and sustainable development. unesco’s role in the global education first initiative remains important. we see culture as an enabler and driver of development. support to culture is clearly support to development. a high-level meeting in new york on 5 may 2014, organised by unesco, will be the venue for further discussions on the important link between culture and development. the eu is also a strong defender of the diversity of cultural expression. we were instrumental in the adoption of the 2005 unesco convention and one of the european union’s main objectives in our relations with third countries is to support cultural policy development and to promote this convention. under the leadership of commissioner vassiliou, and with the active participation of our delegation in beijing, china has become the first pilot case, illustrating the role of culture in people-to-people diplomacy and mutual understanding in the framework of our foreign relations. the secretary general of the external action service, mr pierre vimont, has recently appointed in his office a coordinator on cultural matters, who is working in complementarity with member states also promoting cooperation in this field. the european external action coordinator is active in making contact with a great variety of stakeholders, with a deep engagement in the international cultural scene. the ‘more europe’ initiative, supported by civil society, is also active in bringing together several actors. the european union national institutes for culture association has also been in the frontline. parliament’s resolution rightly stressed the importance of the fight against the death penalty. we have a strong and principled abolitionist policy on that. we firmly believe that no cultural difference or perception could ever contest the fundamental right to life and human dignity. we have publicly condemned – and continue to do so – the use of the death penalty in any circumstances and in any country. we never cease to stress, either in our dialogues with third countries or through public diplomacy, the cruelness and irreversibility of this archaic form of punishment. the eu guidelines on the death penalty clearly instruct us to act whenever and wherever this abominable practice takes place. in the un context, the european union has played a pivotal role in the adoption of the general assembly resolution on the moratorium on the death penalty and will continue this practice in this year’s upcoming general assembly.
mr president, mr minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. for decades christians have not been as persecuted or as victims of persecution as in recent years. sad highlights include the persecution in pakistan, iraq and syria. in these countries, especially in syria and iraq, entire christian communities, which are among the oldest christian communities in the world, are being virtually wiped out. this is all the result of a failed policy of the west for which we are partly responsible. i therefore ask the european union to consider itself at last a protector of christians and to protect not only secularists, atheists and agnostics, but especially christians who are virtually without protection if we do not grant them such protection. now to number 30. paragraph 30 invokes the principle of mutual conditionality. that's right, i did. but where is this principle of reciprocity, or, conversely, the principle of reciprocity, when it comes to turkey? turkey is not only persecuting christians in its own country, but it is also supporting murderous gangs that are eradicating entire christian-armenian villages in the immediate vicinity, for example in the syrian-turkish border area. the armenians are being persecuted again in turkey, and europe is watching. turkey is once again taking a stand, knowing that it was the first country to commit genocide against the armenian people in the last century, as a persecuting power against christians. finally, a word on the king abdullah centre: it is simply a fig leaf of wahhabis in vienna, which is not to be taken seriously.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is a great institution. this is my last speech in this chamber. it concerns - and i thank my colleagues for this - one of the central issues we have to solve in the european parliament, in the member states, if we are to make transport policy truly decent. unfortunately, i cannot include commissioner kallas in this thanksgiving, because he has completely underestimated and downplayed the importance of the issue of social dumping. he was always ready and active when it came to helping companies in their activities. he was always on one side of the spectrum when it came to the gigalinos, when it came to cabotage. but we are here to speak for a union of citizens in europe, and not just a union of companies! that is why i find his attitude particularly shameful. the documentation of the long-distance drivers speaks volumes. they show us the dramatic distortions we have. the structure of the company makes it impossible for workers to assert their own rights. here i find that action is simply lacking. it is true that these practices are driving the right companies out of the market. we have here not only unfair competition in the sector but also between the different modes of transport. so again, my question is: where does the data go? where are your reports to the european parliament on what has actually been done? we've been trying to get it for ten years. nothing has happened! a sad record in this matter.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not commissioner, you have quite rightly pointed out that the problems of prolonged detention are usually caused by the fact that identities are not established, that the countries of origin cannot be easily identified, or that readmission by third countries does not work properly. the return directive is the basis for all the measures that are being put in place here. we know that it regulates very precisely on what grounds and for how long a person can be detained. the commission also found that the impact of the directive is positive in its assessment in the report of march 2014. in fact, in 12 member states, prison sentences were reduced and in eight member states they were extended. but overall, the maximum hours are respected. the united nations also praised the european union's actions. the illegal activity has decreased by 30[nbsp]% between 2008 and 2012, according to their estimates. however, they also found that there is a discrepancy between the decision to deport and the actual implementation. that is again linked to the reasons for the readmission. we know all that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but what about the situation in greece, which you mentioned? i had the opportunity to participate with other colleagues in a libe delegation. we could see the situation on the ground at the border, at the evros river. greece was extremely affected by illegal immigration until 2012. i would not wish any country to have to deal with such massive flows of illegal immigration. there were detention centers that we observed and studied. some were new, in excellent condition, and the procedures were also well organized. there have been some, because of this mass protest, that have been rightly presented as problematic, and where we have been assured that they will be closed. i assume that's what happened in the form, too. the european union's support measures have worked. i assume that what was criticized then is now done at the present time. it is the commission's job to check whether it is in order or not. if it is not in order, then action should be taken. but there is no reason to change the policy. this is my last speech after 15 years, and i can only conclude by saying that it has been a privilege, mr president, to work here in parliament. i thank all those who have made this work possible and supported it, and i wish all those who will work here in the future all the best and success!
thank you very much, commissioner. good luck to you, too. i would like to thank all the members who have spoken in this debate, including mr pirker, who made his last speech in the plenary, for their commitment to serving the citizens and to making europe safer. the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the negotiations on the eu-vietnam free trade agreement (2013/2989 ((rsp)).
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday, 17 april 2014, at 12 noon.
the next item is the report of the european parliament and the council on the implementation of the european union strategic partnership agreement with japan (2014/2021 (ini)) (a7-0244/2014).
that concludes this point. the vote will take place today, thursday, 17 april 2014, at 12 noon. as i am taking over the presidency for the last time in this parliamentary term, i would like to thank you all for the excellent cooperation between the various political groups. i wish you a happy easter, good luck in the weeks ahead and, hopefully, a speedy reunion. thanks for the support! (the sitting was suspended at 10.55 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon.)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to support this request for a roll-call vote. i'm all for it. even if the deadline has been missed, we should still vote by name.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the use of conventional drugs such as cocaine and ecstasy is reduced, while new substances which can be sold legally are increasingly entering the market. but drugs under the guise of "fertilizer", "bathing salts", "plant foods", and so on are at least as dangerous. today's decision will allow us to react more quickly to new 'designer drugs' and put a stop to them!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is important for the future that we make efforts, especially in countries like north korea, to re-establish contacts and to create new opportunities for contacts, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises. the european union should not just use sugar and whips here, but we should ensure that there is a balance between sanctions on the one hand and incentives to talk to each other again, to work together again, on the other. we should also ensure that north korea, above all, will soon be able to prosper again.
mr president, firstly let me welcome all the newly-elected and re-elected meps to this house, to the european parliament. an austrian journalist said to me this morning in an interview on austrian radio that the european parliament has been strengthened by these elections, because we were the ones who took the procedure of the nomination and election of the commission president into our hands and out of those of the council. that is why we are standing here strengthened. but we need to be aware that we should not put this new strength that we have gained at risk by being less democratic internally than we should be. that is why i now stand here running for president, because i, and my political group, and so many others here, simply did not find it acceptable that the council could tell us about ten days ago who to vote for as the president of this parliament. that is our choice, and that is why my group, which originally nominated me as a vice-president of this parliament, also asked me to run for president – because that is what elections are all about, including internally. the european parliament is the voice of european citizens, not the secretary of eu governments. as parliamentarians who are directly elected, each and every one of us, we should not simply be presented with a pre-cooked deal to just rubber stamp. everybody who knows me – and that means quite a lot of you – knows that the struggle for democracy is close to my heart inside the eu and inside this parliament, but also outside the eu. i will say this now in the four languages that i speak: democracy is about choices; la démocratie est une affaire de choix; democracia consiste en elegir; demokratie braucht alternativen. that is why i also think that these elections signal change. that is why, as your president, i would try to give citizens an answer to what they wanted from these elections. one thing was to end austerity. we simply cannot have a continent with more and more poverty, especially among young people, where people do not see europe as a promise anymore, but sometimes even as a threat. that needs to change, and i would want to invest in that as part of this european parliament and as your president. investing in jobs – green jobs –, renewables and energy efficiency is important, but the european parliament also needs to be credible on the inside. we need to lead by example on energy issues, such as by making these buildings more energy efficient, and also on transparency. in this house we have a code of conduct that is not always monitored and implemented. we need a legislative footprint to make sure that it is clear who is influencing which law and that nobody can try to buy a law. we need to tell european citizens that we are serious about that. we also need a single seat. we parliamentarians – and not the council any more – need to decide where we meet. that is also something i want to change. the majority in this parliament has voted that it should be we who decide in the future where to go. it is also clear that we must not fall into the trap of pandering to populism, inter-governmentalism or – worst of all – nationalism and extremism. the european parliament has long been a champion of fundamental human rights and citizens’ rights, and this must continue. we must face down the knee-jerk trend to intolerance, disrespect and second-class treatment of women, but also of minorities, whether racial, sexual, social or otherwise. the european parliament can and must do more to defend core values on which this european union is founded, and the next parliamentary term will be decisive for europe’s future. if we do not get it right now, there will – with reference to the football championship going on at the moment – be no extra time and no replay. that is what citizens demanded from us in these elections, and it is also a question of democracy. i would like to end by sharing something with you that i deeply share with mr schulz, who will be speaking after me, so i will switch to german for that. demokratie braucht alternativen. deswegen stehe ich heute hier.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the majority groups in this house! do you really think you represent your countries, your peoples, your cultures? we have had a voter turnout of less than 20% in some cases, 80% of the people have long since refused to participate and say they want nothing more to do with this form of european integration. if we were honest and we were going to leave all the seats open for the people who didn't vote, then four-fifths of the room would be empty, and this house would be represented in a way that makes it clear that there is finally a need for reform. i'm from austria. i am here today, after eight years in the austrian parliament, to make one thing clear: my country, my people, want their powers back. we want our sovereignty back. we no longer want to be satisfied that we are being governed by a european nomenclature which is not even elected by 80% of the people in europe, and that we are no longer acting in an integrated manner of democratic will-building. with the staff package that has been put together here, and where a mr juncker is today ... (the president withdraws the floor from the speaker.)
in writing. despite decades of voluntary action at both national and european level, there is still no balance between men and women on supervisory boards. the only countries where there is any success in this respect are those where there are binding regulations, such as italy. the directive will soon be two years old and is just waiting for the council to conclude it together with us parliamentarians. the european parliament has done its homework, improved the proposal further and voted on it at first reading last november. the ministers must now come to terms in the council and reach agreement under the italian presidency. the parliament has remained realistic in its amendments and has simplified and improved the proposal. i am confident that the italian presidency will be ambitious in breaking the stagnation in the council and will start talks with parliament and the commission in the framework of negotiations. the only regret for me as rapporteur is that mr renzi did not address this important issue of gender equality in the world of work in his speech to the european parliament's plenary on 2 july 2014. together we will break the glass ceiling of the 'old boys network' and give 259 million women in europe greater opportunities.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am somewhat alarmed to see that on the one hand there is a danger of war at the gates of europe, and on the other hand i see that 80% of the members are not even taking part in the debate and are probably carrying out their responsibilities in the cafeteria - a bad sign for the european union. the second thing i wonder, particularly as regards the speakers of the majority groups, is that there is obviously no research at all being done here on the things that are read from the leaflet and one gets the impression that this is mostly a european embassy of the united states of america rather than a self-confident european parliament. i would like to remind you of what happened on the maidan, how a supposedly democratic movement supported by the european union suddenly used both assault rifles and machine guns and subsequently overthrew a government, not with the necessary quorum in the kiev rada of 75%, which would have been necessary, but below that. there too, the wrong decision to stage a coup was ignored. in a further episode, the eyes were closed when 400 blackwater mercenaries of the us administration were suddenly discovered in ukraine, according to a report by the german magazine der spiegel. i ask the european union not to take the american position unilaterally, but on the contrary to play a neutral role, to allow a tripartite negotiation to take place between the russians, the ukrainians and the europeans. this is about the population, it's about avoiding deaths and keeping the peace. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. mr vilimsky, you have interestingly said that there was a "supposed democracy movement" on the maidan, that the government was overthrown. you were there? my colleague rebecca harms was there a lot. she's been talking to people, she's known them, not just now, but for years, and many others in this house. you and your colleagues from the fpö and others were invited by the russian government and russian organizations to crimea and observed the so-called referendum there. where is their actual view of things? you weren't at the maidan.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank mrs lunacek. i was for eight years the president of the austrian-ukrainian parliamentary friendship society. i was delivering relief supplies for children in the ukraine. i brought an austrian daily newspaper to ukraine to help the animals in ukraine in the run-up to the euro. and i have a lot of people to talk to. if you criticize today that we took a picture of ourselves on the spot in crimea while you were sitting in vienna or wherever and read any newspapers that you think are the truth, then i'm more of the opinion that i'm on the spot, i'm there and i take these things as the basis of my argument rather than something that someone tells you.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. thank you very much. my question is: what will this agreement mean for small and mediumsized enterprises? what will be the impact here? can you see that the commission's forecasts here could also produce employment growth in europe?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is a saying that says, "good intentions are the opposite of good". i think this is where it happened. these negotiations may have been well-intentioned at one time, but they have gone terribly wrong. there are many examples of what went wrong. many colleagues have already mentioned a number of things. but i would like to return to these investment protection clauses and perhaps put it in a very simple way: a simple citizen, a citizen who buys a diesel car, for example, because diesel is cheaper and less taxed, cannot go to a special court sitting in london when a democratically elected government suddenly raises taxes on diesel. but these investors could do it. it's not fair. why are there special rights for big investors? we live in a democratic legal system - both in europe and in the united states - and on both sides there is no need to do that. if investors have problems, there are ordinary courts. otherwise, i do not think this agreement is acceptable. then this whole secrecy thing. i used to believe that, too. i have been told that when negotiating with the americans, you cannot disclose all the negotiating positions. i can understand that. but we 've come to the conclusion: the americans know our secrets before we know them, because they're listening in. that's another thing to consider. that's why it's high time everyone knew what was being negotiated here! i have the feeling, commissioner, that this agreement is an agreement which benefits the big financial investors and harms democracy, and that such an agreement is out of place. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i am very pleased, mr leichtfried. unlike two colleagues in your social democratic delegation, you voted enthusiastically for the negotiations a year ago. they were still in favour of the isds agreement in april. i'm really fascinated. what made you change your mind so quickly that you changed your mind in the last few days? yes, in the austrian newspaper you even call for withdrawal from the negotiations! they have no confidence in the commission. what was the reason? can you tell me the key experience in your discovery? why has your love for america cooled? or was it the bad election result ... (the president cut the speaker off)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i don't think you know anything about it. it's been going on for a while. i said, of course, that i was in favour of opening negotiations. of course i said i would see how they worked and decide in the end whether i was for or against. i have, of course, said that i feel they are doing very badly and i have explained why i think they are doing very badly. unlike you, i spent five years on this, and i was on the right committee.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. at the beginning of the sixth round of negotiations, the two chief negotiators demonstratively shake hands in front of the press. questions were not allowed. the old adage, just don't give too much information to the public. instead, corporations are being involved. a recent report by the eu trade directorate shows that 92% of negotiations were conducted with lobbyists in advance, but only 4% with public interest representatives. if you still believe in food-sector panic, i recommend a letter from 177 u.s. congressmen to the house of representatives. the commission is also proposing to extend the geographical protection of european products, such as italian parmesan or greek feta, to all products. the european producers of quality products would of course be left behind if they were not protected. the consumer, too, who has no idea whether he's eating real italian parmesan or american parmesan from anabolic cows. i would just like to say, commissioner, free lunch, good appetite, europe!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to draw your attention once again to the letter from the us senators to the agriculture minister, tom vilsack, which really calls for aggressive action to be taken against protected geographical indications and indicators, which are very strongly rooted in the regions in europe and, of course, also bring a very high added value, that they should be recognised as real barriers to trade and should be abolished. i would also like to remind you that i have already called on you - together with my epp colleagues from 15 member states - to oppose this very strongly. we are not prepared to agree to an agreement which in any way jeopardizes agriculture as we know it in europe and as we also appreciate it. the food safety sector in particular is a very, very sensitive one. but this is also about the manufacturing companies we have in europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i am not going to go into that. i would like to ask you: do you see any advantage in the ttip agreement, particularly as regards workers? what's your attitude here? can you see an advantage in this agreement, or are there only disadvantages?
in writing. the eu-us free trade agreement covers many complex areas . i am more than critical of the isds procedure. the special right of action protects large companies, but does not make them liable! the isds mechanism introduces a new arbitration procedure in free trade agreements with developed countries, which discriminates against domestic investors and grants special rights of action to foreign multi-billion dollar multinational investors, even though the alleged justifications for this are not true. we must be aware of the costs of arbitration and compensation which directly affect european taxpayers. the population will also have to pay the intangible costs, such as a reduction in political freedom of action and the loss of european and national sovereignty with future welfare losses. we as the european parliament have the final say on whether to reject or approve the free trade agreement, and we social democrats will look at this very carefully and will be committed to a high level of protection of public services. the aim is to create high-quality jobs and to ensure that european consumers benefit from the agreement. the current labour and social standards must not be undermined. we will actively fight against social dumping by large corporations and will promote the mandatory observance of the ilo conventions. it must be clearly stated that there must be sanctions for violations of social and labour standards!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. for us greens, the maternity directive is of great importance for several reasons, firstly from the point of view of women's policy, because it promotes women's participation in the labour market, and secondly from the point of view of social policy, because it sets important minimum social standards in the field of safety and health at work, but also for equality policy reasons. i welcome the commission's statement that paternity leave should be included in a new wording of the directive, but i wonder why the commission has not made any signals in this direction so far. but i'm taking that as a positive sign. but we also think that the directive is important from an economic point of view. i cannot agree with the arguments often made against the directive, namely that the cost would be too high. there is a study that the commission itself has produced which says that if women's participation in the labour force were to increase by one per cent alone, the cost of the directive would be covered by now. in other words, it would be essential to continue negotiations with the european parliament on improving safety and health at work.
i have to say, madam president, in his speech to the european parliament's plenary, prime minister renzi said: 'if the european union took a selfie, we would see a face that was quite tired and exhausted.' i think that the italian presidency of the council is now showing a lot of momentum, that this face does not look tired but perhaps young and cheerful, and that a contribution to the policy of equal opportunities and, in particular, to the revival of the maternity directive can make a valuable contribution here. one thing is quite clear: we have - mrs niebler mentioned it - different concepts of parental leave, different concepts of maternity protection in the european union. but maternity protection - proper conditions for maternity protection, good minimum standards for maternity protection - these are really the absolute basics, the little one-offs we have for the european welfare state. that is why we should continue this commitment now and not bury our heads in the sand. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. pregnant women, as many before me have said, should be protected. the health of the child and the mother should be respected. we need particularly high standards, not in spite of, but precisely in the midst of the crisis, because the pressure on the labour market is growing and is affecting women in particular. i would like to speak about the refit communication because it is here that many areas which are important to the workers are being called into question for cost reasons. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i am therefore absolutely confident that the italian presidency of the council, and we in the newly elected european parliament, will take this matter very seriously in the coming months.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. my group is happy to support the report and to welcome lithuania into the euro area. lithuania is already in the exchange rate mechanism and needs to understand monetary policy. we cannot understand how they can be denied a say in politics and voted against when they have to carry this policy. the financial crisis, the economic crisis and the union's austerity policy have also left their mark on lithuania: one sixth of the population is unemployed. something must be done, this economic course must be changed, also in the interests of lithuanians. we shall therefore be tabled amendments to call for a change of course from austerity and to draw attention to this problem. but we will support the report and welcome lithuania.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. lithuania has therefore met the convergence criteria. these convergence criteria are impressive in the case of lithuania. that's an inflation rate of 0.6%, which we've already said today, close to deflation. if i may use a comparison: the inflation rate in my home country austria in 2014 is 1.7%. the budget deficit in lithuania: 2,1% this value, if i may compare with austria: for 2014 2,7%. the gross debt ratio is particularly impressive: 39.4% in lithuania. again, i would like to quote the austrian figure: 79.2%. this means that the public debt in austria is almost twice as high as in lithuania. i congratulate my lithuanian colleagues on these efforts, but at the same time i would like to say that the positive message of these efforts has not yet reached the people of lithuania. we have a poll from may 2013 which shows that 52% of the lithuanian population are against the introduction of the euro. it is possible that similar poor survey scores could be found in other euro countries, but these surveys do not exist. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. two things: it is impressive to me when a country manages to go from a double-digit inflation rate to 0.6% in a few years. of course, it is somewhat disturbing. you are quite right: according to the ecb, price stability is not yet a given in this case. you're right, we have to be careful.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. mr lucke is turning the arguments around as he needs them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the conditions for the accession of lithuania to the european union are met. i have to say very clearly: the commission's report clearly states that lithuania now meets all the legal and economic requirements, including the compatibility of legislation with the treaty, price stability, sound and sustainable public finances, sustainability of convergence and exchange rate stability. the commission is also analysing the factors, and you have pretended that the ecb is saying the opposite. she doesn't. she's coming to the same conclusions. it only points out that keeping the inflation rate in lithuania low will be a major challenge. we have countries where inflation is too low and we have countries where it is too high. that is why we have economic and monetary union, the stability and growth pact, so that we can achieve convergence in the single market, in the euro area, which creates growth and jobs. and if we have heard the new president of the commission today, we are in a situation where we have extinguished a burning plane in flight. and we have an economic and monetary union that is not yet complete. we are happy that on the day when we democratically elect a new commission president for the first time, we can also show that this community is getting stronger, that we are pursuing our objectives, that we have welcomed two new member states into the euro area and one new member state into the european union during the crisis. i hope we all have the aim of making monetary union an economic, fiscal and political union. welcome to the euro area!
i have to say, madam president, i would like to measure the fight against youth unemployment not just by the fine words spoken in this chamber but by the actions taken. if, for example, the implementation of the youth guarantee were to be given the same importance in the context of the country-specific recommendations as the flexibilization and deregulation of labour markets in europe, we would be a decisive step forward in the fight against youth unemployment. if we were to exclude investment in youth employment from the deficit procedure, we would be taking a major step forward in the fight against youth unemployment in europe, and that would be support for those countries which are in budgetary difficulties. we need more commitment in implementing the youth guarantee - at least effective monitoring and monitoring strategies - and i think the youth guarantee is one thing, but the quality of youth employment is quite another. more and more young people are living in precarious employment conditions. 50% of all young people enter the labour market with only a part-time job and no full-time job. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already done so. i come from a country, austria, where, at the outbreak of the crisis, the funds for active labour market policies were doubled - i say doubled - to combat youth unemployment. this investment has clearly paid off. we have one of the lowest youth unemployment rates in europe. so, investing in young people pays off. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. young people are not beggars, they are the foundation of society. they're incredibly valuable to us. so, every investment comes back double and triple.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european social model, the world's leading social model, is being tested. you're right, i know. i would also like to take up what is on the table today. we have a resolution from the european people's party, prepared by david casa, for the vote tomorrow, we have heard from president juncker a ten-point programme, and we have the opinion of commissioner andor. we need to be clear: at present, italy and france are the only countries in crisis which have access to the youth employment initiative. if we accept that only one billion out of six billion is being used, then it is not primarily a budgetary problem! it is a question of the principle of bench-learning, i.e. learning from the models that exist in europe. it is clear that dual training, the european labour market network and eures are proven and binding support. there are 2 million jobs in europe, and the strengthening of small and mediumsized enterprises is as important as the promotion of entrepreneurship, which must be taught in school for young people.
mr president, (the speaker is speaking without a microphone) ... unemployment in the union and a so-called youth guarantee which will not sufficiently remedy the situation, because where there are no jobs, there can be no guarantee of jobs. six billion euros is certainly just a drop in the bucket, and the 2020 targets, which provide for a 40% graduation rate, are completely counterproductive. i wonder why we need so many academics. the consequences: more unemployment, sociologists as taxi drivers, lawyers as waiters and an inflation of diplomas. we need to develop the skills of the craft sector, combined with skills in new technologies, skilled workers for our industry and a dual training system, as austria and germany are known to advocate. what we do not need, of course, is more immigration, which will lead to wage dumping and also increase social tension in europe. (applause from the centre)
in writing. a major reason for the high level of youth unemployment in many member states is the economic and debt crisis in europe, in which companies are more likely to retain or even reduce existing staff than to recruit young people. this is why a sustained crisis management is the most effective measure to combat youth unemployment! euro-area members need to consolidate their budgets in line with the stability and growth pact and implement structural reforms, as this is the only way to achieve sufficient economic growth leading to job creation. in addition, member states should introduce measures to make it more attractive for companies to recruit new staff, especially young people. the following measures are appropriate: - the reduction in the tax burden. - a relief from labor costs. in austria, non-wage labour costs account for 49.1% of total wages. - measures to increase the willingness of enterprises to undertake training, such as the so-called "blum-tausender" which enterprises in austria received for training apprentices. this has led to a sharp increase in youth employment in austria. - the increase in the attractiveness of dual training, a system which in austria and germany is responsible for relatively low youth unemployment compared with other member states. the dual training system is an ideal "best practice" for the countries of europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in order to avoid any misunderstanding, i would like to say that we voted for lithuania's accession to the euro, but against amendment no 1, despite the fact that youth unemployment is the biggest wound in the european union and i therefore very much welcome the fact that the president-elect of the commission made it very clear yesterday that he will present a €300 billion investment, growth and employment programme by february 2015. the amendments we voted against have nothing to do with lithuania's accession to the euro zone, but they do deal with important issues which we must address in economic, social and employment policy. i just want to make that clear. the only reason for rejecting this application is that it has no causal link with the accession of lithuania. monetary union is a strengthening of the single market, and the single market is our job engine.
in writing. - the crisis was not a euro crisis but a sovereign debt, economic and financial crisis. the crisis has shown that we can only survive in europe if we are united. the aim of monetary union, he said, was to achieve convergence in the single market and the euro area, which would create growth and jobs. just a year ago, some people predicted the break-up of the eurozone. none of this has happened", the eu politician recalls. the eu is emerging from the crisis even stronger. the monetary union is not yet complete. the accession of croatia to the eu and the accession of latvia and lithuania to the euro area during the crisis is a sign that we are getting stronger.
in writing. - the euro has proved to be hardly resistant to crisis even in its first serious test. only the massive and very worrying intervention of the ecb prevented a collapse. the reason for its weakness is its basic construction: a currency for a europe of 20+ different economies with different economic cycles and fiscal policies. at the turn of the millennium we were assured that the excessive debt of individual countries would not be paid for with the money of other countries within the monetary union, because there should be no excessive debt (maastricht criteria). now, we know from the esm that the dachshund, despite being contractually obliged not to touch the sausage stock, ate it. what a surprise and what a prophecy! with hard work and a lot of tax money, the collapse of 2012 was averted and to include another nation - no matter which - in this unstable construct, i think it is not worthwhile at the moment. in addition, the new membership will exceed the number of seats on the governing council of the ecb. this now requires that each nation must suspend once. controversial euro decisions can be made over austria's or germany's head by good timing. it's very dangerous. i therefore voted against lithuania's accession to monetary union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is nothing more to be said about these two messages. that's why i'm not going to say anything more about it, except that i fully understand and share it. i would ask you not only to say that you are aware of the situation but also to indicate a possible reaction that could take place here. i think this meeting deserved it.
in writing. if we do not address the problem of outstanding payments soon, important programmes such as research projects and erasmus+ will be seriously jeopardised. the payment of outstanding debts is also a question of the eu's credibility: it is simply unacceptable to look to others as guardians of national budgets while accumulating billions of euros in external debts. the council must finally take up its responsibilities here: it cannot make great promises to the citizens and at the same time cut back on payments. but the commission also has a duty: there is an urgent need for mechanisms to detect spending errors as early as possible. once the commission has its own house and is fully operational again, this issue must be dealt with as a matter of priority!
lawlessness and an incompetent, corrupt government with no respect for the rights of minorities; all this has led to the present situation in iraq. it has been reported by the new york times that the government of prime minister nouri al-maliki has harassed sunni arabs with baseless arrests, and for sunni militants caught by the security forces summary execution has become increasingly common. for years, the international community has even half-heartedly put pressure on the shi’ite-dominated government to be more inclusive, but to no avail. there is, however, a sliver of hope that has been mentioned before with the announcement yesterday that a sunni has been appointed speaker of the iraqi parliament. this will probably do little to those sunni fighters who have proclaimed an islamic state within the state. we are now witnessing an attempt at re-drawing the map of the middle east that could have a multitude of consequences. all will eventually spill into europe. as usual, the united states, which is not of course altogether blameless for this situation, was the first to intervene. as with the conflict between israel and the palestinians, decisive diplomatic action by the european union is urgently needed.
in writing. there have been about 500,000 deaths in iraq since 2003 that's more than france lost in world war ii. the united states has created a chaos of its own in the region. the opposition to assad was also supported at all costs and despite all warnings - unofficially also by weapons and training. now the weapons are in the hands of an isis. you really have to ask yourself, is this all intentional? provoke a civil war, solve the problem with military invasion and bring democracy with bombs. the european union has a duty to help the people of the region. again, the arsonist calls the fire department himself and offers himself for it. and so war can be made in many ways: selling arms to everyone and manipulating oil prices through induced crises. it seems to be all about resources. terrorism is supported and financed in order to then denounce and combat it and to curtail civil rights in our country.
the next speaker is mr eugen freund. allow me to add one or two personal words. we contested elections together in austria during the last election campaign. i am glad to see you here as well, even in a different group, as a new member of this house.
madam president, it is a special honour for me to speak here during your presence in the chair, on which i congratulate you very much. we are all very much in favour of a ceasefire, of course. too much blood has already been spilled, too many innocent people have died, but a ceasefire is certainly not enough, as we have so often witnessed in the middle east. i stopped counting the ceasefires that just come and go. we have to put all our emphasis and when i say we, i mean the european union, we have to put all our efforts into resolving the conflict, otherwise we will only leave yet another generation which does not know anything other than hatred, violence and desperation. it is cruel enough that we rob our young people in spain, in italy and in greece of their hope for the future, as they are not provided with adequate jobs. now just consider the situation of the youth in the west bank or in gaza, living in a stateless entity that is left unable to provide for anything, let alone for a decent living. on the other hand israel, as we have seen in the present conflict, is under a constant barrage of rocket attacks. this is untenable. in the early 1970s, bruno kreisky, the pre-eminent austrian statesman was one of the first to recognise the severity of the conflict in the middle east. he did not find enough allies to help him resolve the crisis. forty years later it is overdue that a reinvigorated and confident european foreign policy steps into that void. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8)).
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. - mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank you for your statement, because wherever there is poverty, of course, there is also conflict. can you imagine the european union taking active action to eradicate poverty in this area? what action can you imagine here?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i believe that you cannot eliminate poverty without eliminating conflict. so the first thing we have to do is to work to stop this conflict from going on. we must, of course, begin with a ceasefire. but the ceasefire, as i said before, is only a first step. there really must be a settlement. we cannot leave these steps to the americans alone, but we must also act as europeans with confidence to solve this problem. then, of course, we have to take those steps that you mentioned, which is to eradicate poverty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i have to say, madam president, the events in gaza are nothing short of tragic, especially since it is a conflict that repeats itself with an intolerable regularity, on average every two years. if the same process is repeated, it means that the root causes of the problem are obviously not being addressed. it is not possible to explain this in one minute's time. and that's probably the core of the problem, that we've been testing ourselves for decades with these simple explanations. the israeli-palestinian conflict is one of the biggest conflicts of our time. the problems are extremely complex. it is not just a question of international law, but also of social and economic backgrounds. this is a very important point, and i hope that the commission will take it up. nevertheless, the solution can be outlined in a single sentence. more than ever, what yitzhak rabin, the former israeli prime minister who had taken the path of reconciliation with the plo, said a few minutes before his assassination at the great peace rally in tel aviv 20 years ago is true: the way of peace is preferable to the way of war. i'm telling you this as someone who was a military man for 27 years.
the motions for resolutions to be tabled under rule 123(2) will be announced in the house at a later time. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 17 july 2014. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the crime of aggression (2014/2724(rsp)).
i have to say, madam president, we are discussing a resolution today which calls on all member states to do something they should have done a long time ago, namely to ratify the kampala amendments. why is this so important? this process would further develop international criminal justice, thereby strengthening its reach and its binding nature. the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of the palestinian people are respected and that the palestinian people are protected. but so far the international criminal court has been unable to develop jurisdiction for crimes of aggression. the rome statute, on which it was based, does not contain a detailed definition of the facts. that is why, so far, members of the military and political leadership cannot be held accountable for instigating an act of aggression that violates the un charter's prohibition of violence. as things stand, these groups cannot be held personally responsible for ordering or providing their territory for such actions as illegal invasions, bombings, blockades of ports or the dispatch of armed gangs. when you hear that, you can clearly remember some of the incidents of the past few weeks. it is only through the kampala amendments, which were adopted after lengthy negotiations, that the crime of aggression is defined. we also know the conditions for how many countries would have to ratify it. it is a pity that only eight eu countries have completed this process. other member states are involved, including my home country, austria. i would like to make one further point: the punishment of crimes is done primarily because it is attributed a deterrent effect. crimes of aggression are crimes of conduct, and aiding and abetting is explicitly excluded. it has often happened that the perpetrators were punished, but those who ordered the crimes went free. the amendments to be ratified will break this unjust debt reversal. they are a clear signal to those responsible to be aware of their responsibility as leaders, because in future crimes of aggression must not go unpunished.
i would like to thank you for your comment that you, as acting president-in-office, will ask your member state and also thank all of those other speakers who said that they, as parliamentarians, would push their own member states to continue to ratify. allow me this comment here from the chair as it is important that we continue to have member states sign up to the agreement. the motions for resolutions to be tabled under rule 123(2) will be announced in the house at a later time. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 17 july 2014.
the commission has already done so. meriam yahia ibrahim is a sad case of fate. she and her family have been through an incredible ordeal. it is to be hoped that a positive solution will soon be found in person. the sudanese government is urged to take all necessary steps to secure their immediate release. but this case is also exemplary because it violates fundamental human rights, the right to freedom of religion and the right to change one's religion, the right to choose one's partner and the right to a fair trial, the principle of gender equality and the resulting right to equal treatment. our resolution reminds sudan that it has committed itself in international treaties to respect and guarantee these rights. the point is that he should fulfil these obligations promptly and fully.
in writing. the commission is not persecution of christians is not common in countries where sharia law is in force. this is particularly evident in the case of 26-year-old maryam yahya ibrahim ishaq. she was arrested in august 2013 because she is not only a christian herself, but also married to one. her marriage was declared invalid and the court sentenced her to death. in addition, she was given 100 lashes before her execution. if the sentence had been carried out, their children - their daughter gave birth to them in omdurman federal women's prison and their son also lived in the cell - would have been in the custody of the state, since the father, as a christian, had no claim to his children. she was released at the end of june this year, as the pressure on sudan became too much. nearly a million people signed a petition to that effect. such a brutal sentence has been possible since 1983, when sharia law was introduced in sudan. it provides for the death penalty for "repudiation of islam". women are also forbidden to marry non-muslim men. ngos like open doors rank sudan 11th in the "christian persecution index" of the world. non-muslims are discriminated against by the state in sudan and thousands of christians are punished according to sharia law.
a writer. - madam president! - what is it? the situation in egypt is of fundamental importance to europe for many reasons. it is the most populous country in the neighbourhood programme. its population of over 80 million people represents a great potential for the future. in 2011, the arab spring reached its peak here a time of great hope in egypt and the european union. many saw a new era on the horizon, and whole new prospects seemed possible. after three years, this process has stalled and changed dramatically. there is a climate of repression, where critical voices in the media are silenced and criminalized. a law on the right to public assembly, march and peaceful demonstration does the exact opposite, allowing the authorities to brutally stifle civil protests in the first place. in recent months, there have been countless arrests and convictions. fair trials are the exception, and the conditions of detention are catastrophic. this situation is a threat to the people of this country and to europe. the resolution should be seen as a sign of our deep concern about what is happening, but also as a warning to the political leaders. it is therefore logical that the european union's neighbourhood policy should also make aid conditional on progress in the area of human rights and the rule of law.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. boko haram's name translates to "books are sin" or "education is sin". it is not, as a colleague said earlier, the patriarchy that is showing its face here, it is radical islam that is showing its face here. we must be aware of that. what we're seeing here is one of the most radical islamic terrorist groups in the world and in nigeria. but there are others in other states. the crimes committed by this group in recent months have made headlines. we have already heard from some colleagues today what it is about. these are headlines that are truly terrifying, that shake the very core. there are about 300 schoolgirls who were abducted. at the beginning of july, 60 people were slaughtered. these are family dramas that we can't really address here. this is one of the most terrible excesses of radical islam. it is also in europe, and it must feel our full force and the full force of our law.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. may i make a suggestion? i am new to this house, but i have parliamentary experience. don't be mad at me. but it would be good if we had at least the time to raise our hands accordingly between "for", "against" and "accepted". you're going a little too fast. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i fully understand that you did not want to continue this debate before. i just wanted to express my satisfaction with your conduct of the meeting. you're doing a great job. i would advise the gentlemen on the far right in the back to concentrate a little more. then that's all right.
in writing. - where there are no jobs, there are no guarantees. so much for a guarantee the state could not and should not guarantee. a rethinking of eu monetary and fiscal policy is needed to tackle this problem of job creation and discrimination against young jobseekers. the targets for 2020 are equally counterproductive, with a 40% graduation rate. why do we need so many academics? the consequences: more unemployment, sociologists as taxi drivers, lawyers as waiters and an inflation of diplomas. we need to develop the skills of the craft sector, combined with skills in the core technologies, skilled workers for our industry and a dual training system, as austria and germany are known to advocate. instead, a guarantee of 6 billion euros in equipment is created - too little to have an economic effect, too much not to hurt. it is only a €6 billion show effect for the french and italian elections. it had no impact on youth unemployment rates as expected. policies must focus on what they can really affect: the framework conditions around the economy and education. i therefore voted against the motion for a resolution which seeks to achieve the impossible with the unfit.
in writing. - the fight against youth unemployment must be a top priority for the new commission. the resolution adopted by the european parliament today by a large majority bears a strong social democratic signature. we are also calling for the inclusion of measures to combat youth unemployment in the european semester, on a mandatory basis for the member states. we social democrats have long called for a rights-based approach, i.e. a right for young people to benefit from measures such as the youth guarantee. the european union must also make a significant contribution to the fight against poverty. instead of the €8 billion pledged so far, the ilo says that at least €21 billion is needed in the eurozone alone to implement the youth guarantee effectively. i voted for the resolution because it is important to send a strong signal to the new commission as well. the price we pay for youth unemployment is enormous - and not just financial.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. it is more than two years since i stood here in the plenary to warn of the rising youth unemployment. there was then, as now, a legitimate criticism that too little attention was being paid to this problem and a demand that the search for solutions to youth unemployment be placed in the political centre. many steps are still needed to tackle this problem today. but fortunately, those who have underestimated the problem are becoming fewer. the joint resolution is therefore very welcome. it not only calls for more resources to combat youth unemployment, but also calls for a legal framework to establish binding european minimum standards for the implementation of the youth guarantee. it calls for a rights-based approach to the implementation of the youth guarantee. a big step forward from the political majority's view two years ago.
in writing. - i do not agree with some aspects of the motion for a resolution on the immediate causes of the problems in iraq. some of them are not mentioned or are presented in a very abstract way, as if isis were suddenly coming from nowhere. there have been about 500,000 deaths in iraq since 2003 - more than the uk or italy lost in world war ii. the united states has created a terrible mess in the region. the opposition to assad was also supported at all costs and despite all warnings - unofficially also by weapons and training. now the weapons are in the hands of an isis. you really have to ask yourself, is this all intentional? it seems to me that the arsonist himself is calling the fire brigade and offering to do it for me. the war can also be used to make money in many ways: selling arms to everyone and manipulating oil prices through induced crises. in return, however, i share the demands in the motion for a resolution that we should take a more decisive stand against the political and humanitarian problems caused by the expansion of isis - now that the child has fallen into the well. i therefore abstained on the motion for a resolution as a whole.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the russian ban on food imports from the european union has caused direct damage in austria alone of over 4.5 million euros in a very short time, and the long-term damage to the agricultural economy is not even estimated yet. it is therefore also urgent that the european commission responds quickly and efficiently to market failures. for the first time since the reform of the common agricultural policy, the new instruments for crisis management are now being used and emergency aid measures are also being adopted. however, we have also learned that the aid for fruit and vegetables, for example, has already been used up. i do not see this as a lack of money only, but above all a lack of solidarity with our farmers and producers in europe. i would therefore like to put two specific questions to the commission. firstly, has the commission provided funds outside the agricultural budget for the measures in the european union in terms of market impact or market utilisation? secondly, is the commission considering preventive measures, for example to prevent crises in the sectors from arising in the first place? i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european farmers are not faced with a risk of failure which can be summed up as occupational risk. this is not unexpected, but predictable bad weather. this is a political crisis for europe. europe's farmers will not be able to tackle this crisis alone. the aid must not, therefore, lead to drastic reductions in direct payments.
i would like to begin by praising the commission for its very rapid response to the new economic situation and for its assurances of aid to those affected. it is important to provide small and mediumsized enterprises, particularly those outside the industrial centres, with rapid, unbureaucratic and more targeted assistance. these companies are the most affected by the sanctions. we must provide targeted assistance to safeguard economic sites and jobs!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they are the ones who suffer, not politicians who debate and escalate a scenario that is problematic enough. let me express my appreciation to ukraine. ukraine is part of the european family of nations, and i myself was for six years the president of the austrian-ukrainian parliamentary friendship society. we have always worked to bring ukraine closer to europe because it is part of the european family of nations. but from the day that both russian and american mercenaries were operating here in ukraine, a process has been set in motion which is an unfortunate one and which affects all the people here in a very unpleasant way. those who are calling now and saying the russians are here, that's right: don't forget that there are also at least 400 blackwater mercenaries in ukraine. my request to you is to stop the sanctions, stop the provocations and find a way of reason here, a tripolar process of peace building between russians, americans and ukraine.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the association agreement which we are ratifying today in ukraine and in the european parliament strengthens the sovereign rights and independence of ukraine. but it has not yet created peace in freedom and justice in the region. we all hoped that 25 years after the fall of the iron curtain, after the violent division of europe had been overcome, that war in europe was impossible. but if you ignore the sovereignty of the state, you have crossed the line. we have a war in europe. ukraine, russia and the member states of the european union are members of the council of europe. they are all members of the united nations. international law is being broken. human rights are being violated. whoever violates justice should be punished! if you want to negotiate, you have to negotiate a ceasefire. the eu and russia should work towards a common basis for business if they want to renew the political dialogue. we've only had them in crimea. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. let's do our part to help.
in writing. russia is the second largest market for agricultural products from the european union. 10% of all eu exports of fruit, vegetables and milk and a third of meat exports go to russia. the financial stake for european producers is €5 billion. in austria alone, agricultural exports to russia decreased by 12% to eur 1,55 billion in the first half of 2014. in total, austrian agricultural exports have so far been affected by the russian embargo to the tune of some eur 100 million. the austrian institute for economic research expects economic damage of eur 775 million as a result of the eu sanctions against russia. it is not enough that the eu provides eur 125 million for fruit and vegetable growers and eur 60 million in marketing support. the sanctions have created an unreasonable situation for european producers: one of the largest markets is being dismantled, at the same time domestic demand is weakening, and only today the oecd has massively lowered its growth forecasts for this year and next. what europe needs now is political leadership to resolve the ukraine conflict and, above all, a swift end to sanctions.
, in writing. the commission is not i consider the sanctions already imposed and those to be imposed on russia to be more than wrong and unjustified. i would even go a step further and strongly oppose the unilateral intervention of the european union in the conflict between two sovereign states. the european union is less concerned with the establishment of the rule of law and respect for human rights in ukraine and even less with the pressing problems of high youth unemployment in europe. it is directing its foreign policy, for whatever reason, primarily to american interests and may also be distracting from the wrong actions in the still present euro-crisis. and the role of the victim is once again that of the european population. firstly, it is obvious that no one has given any thought to the possible counter-sanctions: the european taxpayer will have to pay more than ever to avoid freezing in the coming months. secondly, the peoples of the taxpaying european nations will have to go deep into their own pockets for the association agreement with ukraine. this is something they will have to explain to future generations.
in writing. - i voted for the association agreement between the european union and ukraine because it is the promise made to the freedom fighters of the maidan. many people, especially young people, stood up last year and demonstrated in support of the association agreement. some have paid for this with their lives. we owe it to these people that europe is true to its promises. the association agreement strengthens the sovereignty of ukraine, but it does not yet bring peace in freedom and justice to the region. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome.
in the case of the eu, the eu has a duty to ensure that the eu is able to take action in the field of human rights, and that the eu is able to take action in the field of human rights. these include the fact that russia and its customs union are currently the largest customer of ukrainian exports. however, russia will impose an import duty of 7.8% on 98% of ukrainian products in order to protect its own market from european products. the eu has also been active in the fight against corruption and organised crime. the commission notes that the main reason for the increase in the number of cases of fraud in the banking sector is the lack of transparency in the banking sector.
in writing. i have today rejected the eu-ukraine association agreement, not only because of the important foreign policy reasons against the introduction of the dcfta [deep and comprehensive free trade agreement] with ukraine, but also because of economic concerns. these include the fact that russia and its customs union are currently the largest purchaser of ukrainian exports. however, russia will impose an import duty of 7.8% on 98% of ukrainian products in order to protect its own market from the flood of european products. the eu has also been active in the fight against corruption and organised crime. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market.
in writing. - i voted against the eu-ukraine association agreement today because there are not only important foreign policy reasons against the introduction of the dcfta [deep and comprehensive free trade agreement] with ukraine, but also economic concerns. these include the fact that russia and its customs union are currently the largest purchaser of ukrainian exports. however, russia will impose an import duty of 7.8% on 98% of ukrainian products in order to protect its own market from the flood of european products. the eu has also been active in the fight against corruption and organised crime. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the council and the commission! when secretary of state zanetti tells us today that the general budget should be used in the best possible way for growth and employment, and at the same time we hear from commissioner dominik that the horizon 2020 programme should save 10% of the funds, 600 projects cannot be financed, 1 400 smes and 7 000 people are affected, this is probably a substantial contradiction in itself. i say to you: cutting back on research and development will certainly not create growth and jobs in europe. it is also not the same as the horizon 2020 programme, which i will briefly discuss. it has already been said: horizon 2020 is the world's largest transnational research and development programme with a budget of eur 80 billion, which is now to be cut. the programme is a priority in the european budget for the competitiveness for growth and employment sub-heading, with a share of almost 57%. horizon 2020 provides a common framework for three major objectives: scientific excellence, competitiveness and market leadership, and major societal challenges. the commission is proposing to reduce funding in all three areas. we must speak out against this. innovation, research and development are among the european union's top priorities in the europe 2020 strategy to create growth and jobs. the strategy calls for eu countries to invest 3% of their gdp in research and development by 2020, creating 3.7 million jobs and increasing gdp by 800 billion. ladies and gentlemen, with a 10% reduction in horizon 2020, you will certainly not achieve these objectives.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. i have only one minute, so i would like to add a point which has been missed. there has been a lot of talk about the opportunities for businesses, but very little about what the digital single market means for citizens, for voters. we are talking about a democratically important - perhaps the most important - infrastructure of the 21st century. we should be very careful to ensure that we create an infrastructure here that is democratically relevant and sustainable. this is about net neutrality, this is about search neutrality. it's not just about giving companies equal access to search results, it's also about regulating or not regulating the information of our population, depending on how the laws are made. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it happens in this house sometimes and now, i think, is a time when we have discussions, when you listen to them, when you understand something about the subject, you know what it is about, if you are a normal citizen, you sometimes wonder: what are they discussing exactly, what is the term digital economy, what is happening there? we must also talk about this, so that we can assess the consequences. a colleague mentioned high-speed internet. yeah, that's all the stuff that's going on right now. but it's about much, much more. i recently read a study by one of the big companies in this field, and they talk about the future of toothbrushes that tell you when you brush your teeth that something's broken and you make an appointment with the dentist, refrigerators that refill themselves and think about what the owner wants, espresso machines that match the calendar with their function and then make a strong espresso when you have a bunch of appointments. that's what the future is all about. when we have a situation like this, i think there's a core element of this digital economy, and that's privacy. as in the past, when our predecessors fought for the secrecy of letters, it is now time to ensure that all the sensitive data that we are talking about here is carefully guarded, that it cannot be misused. this has to become a central element of this digital economy. a colleague from the upper right said: 'we must weigh this up, we must see whether the interests of the economy are not also at stake.' no, data protection is above all other interests in this area, including economic interests. there's no way that's not what's going on here. i think that is the key point, and we must take care of it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. today's discussion has shown that europe is clearly still a long way from a single digital single market. the speed and availability of internet access and the price paid for it still depend on the country and region in which you live and how well your local broadband is connected. we need rapid action to address this digital fragmentation. access to the internet is a fundamental right and no one should be excluded from it. the debate on the completion of the internal market must not ignore these questions. but other prerequisites need to be addressed, such as the legal enshrinement of net neutrality, the restoration of trust in the digital network through the rapid adoption of the data protection package, copyright reform that exploits the potential of the digital era, and finally better possibilities for data portability and switching providers to break up entrenched monopolies. finally, an appeal to all of us, to us members of parliament: it is not enough to wait for the commission to come. the european parliament itself must play a leading and challenging role in the development of the digital single market. this is a very important message for the new commissioner as well.
in writing. the internet is now an indispensable aspect of our daily lives, both in private and in the workplace. it offers new opportunities, but also challenges and difficulties that need to be overcome in order not to jeopardise this emerging market and the opportunities it offers, and to create the best possible conditions for all those involved. it is not useful for a trader or a consumer to have to pay attention to 28 different regulations from 28 different countries within a digital single market. i therefore consider it essential to create a framework within europe which offers the same standard of safety to the inhabitants of all member states, while at the same time giving businesses the opportunity and the scope to compete in the international market against strong non-european competitors.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the eu-canada free trade agreement (ceta) (2014/2848 ((rsp)).
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. perhaps i can just say, in a few words, that it is a great pleasure to have you here as chairman. the question, madam president, is whether the commission is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. are you aware that a canadian mineral company is now planning to sue romania because romania is not prepared to grind down a village where people do not want to move? are you aware that a cigarette manufacturer is planning to sue australia because australia wants to expand its no-smoking protections? are you aware that an energy company wants to sue germany because germany wants to get out of nuclear energy? you don't have any problems with all this?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, you do not have to publish the agreement next week, because it has already been published by civil society. you can form an opinion about this, and it is a scandal for democratic politics that civil society had to do this. the key issue in this agreement is investment protection. what's happening here is anti-democratic. if we as the european parliament were to agree, we would be taking decisions for the future ourselves, because we would have to take into account whether we are being prosecuted or not in every single decision. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must reject this, and we must vote against it with all our might. as a democratic representative of the european people, i have no understanding at all for doing otherwise. it is fitting that the way these negotiations were conducted, that this is represented differently, that the votes were handled in the consultation procedure, that the publication of documents was handled differently, that now the ... (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has already done so. in the last austrian national election campaign, a list was put forward by a billionaire who, surprisingly, made his billions in canada, and who, when asked about his understanding of democracy, said that he applied the golden rule. the golden rule means whoever has the gold makes the rules. that's what he said. i actually laughed about it back then and didn't really take it seriously. i am not sure whether to laugh at this because i am beginning to fear that it might actually happen. i want you to really understand that not only do european social democrats have great concerns about this isds, but we see it as a threat to democracy and the rule of law, as a way for big investors, for big corporations, to escape state jurisdiction. there are examples of how this happens. it's also a way for big corporations to influence government democratic processes in a way that ordinary voters don't. we cannot and will not accept that. i also do not understand how a citizens' initiative dealing with this issue can be turned away by the european commission. i think that's undemocratic. these are things that have now happened, and we are now at the point where the majority in favour of this agreement, which certainly has some positive aspects, is wavering here in the european parliament. if we social democrats vote against it in the end, there will be no agreement. i want you to really think about that, that you're looking for ways to get out of this process, that you're looking for ways to get this isds out of the agreements. then we can have a reasonable discussion, otherwise we can't.
in writing. ceta and subsequently other agreements such as ttip and tisa, if concluded, will have far-reaching consequences for millions of people in the eu and the world. three points are particularly important to me. all these agreements have one thing in common: the lack of transparency with which they are negotiated. meps, but also civil society, need to be more closely involved in these far-reaching projects. the second point concerns investment protection clauses with their isds procedures. i am critical of them because they restrict the political space for action in the future to the detriment of their own people. canada and the eu have a well-developed rule of law and legal culture, property protection and equal treatment for nationals are sufficiently entrenched in the legal order. at the same time, the arbitration practice of many other investment protection agreements is characterised by lack of transparency, inefficiency, lack of independence, inconsistency and high costs for taxpayers. what added value can this bring to our society? i reject this 'two-tiered justice'. the last point is europe's prosperity, which is also based on high standards in the areas of social, labour, environment and agriculture. as a union member, i can only say that our standards must be upheld. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. i reject ceta in its present form, ostensibly because of the isds regulation. it is inconceivable that in future states will be restricted in their legislative powers because they are afraid of the millions of lawsuits filed by large corporations in sensitive areas such as education, environment and health policy, public and social services, financial regulation and tax policy. this would not only disempower the politicians themselves, but above all the citizens themselves. the right of companies to bring actions through special courts which have no democratic legitimacy is contrary to all democratic principles. the various exceptions for public services are too vague and imprecise, and legal certainty is no longer present. i am not opposed to free trade in principle. but the european union's single market is the best example of how free trade can work in a different way - without special courts and without undermining social standards.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. first of all, i am a little shocked by the poor preparation of this debate. we do not even know the date of the summit and therefore we are discussing it in very general terms today. we need to be much more specific. we must set projects and debate them. i also ask you not to reduce the eurozone to itself, but to make the eurozone the engine of the single market. what are our goals? sustainable stabilisation of the banking sector, implementation of the coordination decisions, enhancement of competitiveness, growth, employment and investment. we are looking for suggestions on how to implement the decisions and how to achieve these improvements. what are the necessary measures? structural reforms must be continued, investment in education, growth, research and the energy union must be made, the barriers to the single market must be removed and budgets must be made fit for the future. we must first implement the banking union, we must first give the european semester a foothold. we must put the troika report of this house into practice in the eurozone, as regards democratic legitimacy, control and respect for fundamental social rights. we must respect community law in all our actions. and we should finally put an end to the mourning for the financial transaction tax by agreeing in the council to implement the common objectives. the proposal of parliament is on the table.
i have to say, madam president, it is a misconception that the state or the union can solve all economic problems, even if it does not have a lot of money, which is scarce. it is therefore only partially sensible to create more job placement offices through eu funds. the european youth used to find work without the eu, but it also needs the jobs it needs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the lack of jobs, especially in the recession, where the lack of jobs is of course causing a recruitment crisis, and this is of course affecting young people. we must therefore ensure that our european companies are equipped to compete internationally. this includes, of course, highly qualified staff, innovative staff, young people with a strong sense of purpose, but also good conditions for our companies, no unnecessary red tape, no bureaucratic environmental requirements and burdens that distort competition. we need smart incentives, smart temporary arrangements for the labour market. then our companies will recruit more young workers.
i have to say, madam president, the youth guarantee is of immense importance. but it is no substitute for the use of macroeconomic instruments. the funds currently available to combat youth unemployment are of course far from sufficient. the commission itself mentioned it in its press release yesterday, and i will say it in english: 'the youth guarantee scheme is an investment. for the commission, this is crucial expenditure for the eu to preserve its future growth potential. the cost of not acting is infinitely higher than the cost of giving young people money. 150 billion euros have been allocated for 2011. the wounds and scars left behind by young people and our society as a whole are incalculable. that is why it is so important that these investments are excluded from the deficit criteria. these investments should be - and i repeat - really exempted. because they're investments in the future.
madam president, the council's most distinguished representative, commissioner andor! in conclusion, i would like to thank you for your work, especially for the many initiatives which have strengthened social europe. thank you very much. if we have growth and jobs as our number one objective, then the european youth initiative theme should be an opportunity for us to urge the european member states to tackle structural reforms immediately: the youth guarantee, dual training for employability, a functioning social partnership, efficient labour market management and the creation of broad structures for small and mediumsized enterprises. we must make benchmarking a binding instrument of european policy. we must learn from the success models in other countries. then we can have long-term success in the future. this is also true of my home country, austria, which is often held up as a model country. we also have some reforms ahead of us.
in writing. greece has submitted an application (egf/2014/001 el/nutriart) for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in respect of redundancies in nutriart s.a. and 25 service providers and downstream producers. the total of 508 redundancies exacerbate unemployment in the regions of attica and central macedonia, where attica accounts for 43% of greek gdp, meaning that the closure of businesses in this region has a massive impact on the entire greek economy. the increase in unemployment in the two largest greek conurbations is threatening social cohesion and exacerbating tensions in society. i therefore voted in favour of the use of the egf in the nutriart/greece case.
in writing. greece has submitted an application (egf/2014/001 el/nutriart) for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in respect of redundancies in nutriart s.a. and 25 service providers and downstream producers. the total of 508 redundancies exacerbate unemployment in the regions of attica and central macedonia, where attica accounts for 43% of greek gdp, meaning that the closure of businesses in this region has a massive impact on the entire greek economy. the increase in unemployment in the two largest greek conurbations is threatening social cohesion and exacerbating tensions in society. i therefore voted in favour of the use of the egf in the nutriart/greece case.
in writing. the rapid decline in the eu market share and the increase in the market share of countries such as china in steel products had led to a serious disruption of the economic development of the production of finished and semi-finished steel products the sector in which mechel câmpia turzii and mechel reparații târgoviște were active . the egf application therefore seeks to support those who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. the redundancies therefore had a significant impact on the local labour market, given the small number of jobs in the câmpia turzii area (an average of 30 vacancies per month) and the small number of potential employers. all the measures listed below together form a coordinated package of personalised services for labour reintegration, labour registration, information, advice and vocational guidance, vocational training and traineeships, support for self-employment, renting of the production site and payment of rent for the duration of the project, travel allowance, application grant, traineeship grant, residence allowance, participation grant, support after taking up a new activity. the motion is therefore to be fully supported.
the redundancies at sc mechel câmpia turzii and a downstream producer (sc mechel reparații târgoviște srl) are linked to major structural changes in the world trade structure as a result of globalisation. the losses in the sector in which mechel câmpia turzii and mechel reparații târgoviște were active, namely the production of finished and semi-finished steel products, illustrate the rapid decline in the european market share in steel production and the simultaneous increase in the market share of countries such as china. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the competitiveness of the steel industry. the 1 513 redundancies in this case have a serious impact on the local labour market in romania, as mechel câmpia turzii was the largest employer in the region with 1 837 employees (june 2012), or about one third of the total number of employees in the region. for these reasons, i voted in favour of using the egf in this case.
in writing. - the redundancies at sc mechel câmpia turzii and a downstream producer (sc mechel reparații târgoviște srl) are linked to the far-reaching structural changes in the world trade structure as a result of globalisation. the losses in the sector in which mechel câmpia turzii and mechel reparații târgoviște were active, namely the production of finished and semi-finished steel products, illustrate the rapid decline in the european market share in steel production and the simultaneous increase in the market share of countries such as china. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the competitiveness of the steel industry. the 1 513 redundancies in this case have a serious impact on the local labour market in romania, as mechel câmpia turzii was the largest employer in the region with 1 837 employees (june 2012), or about one third of the total number of employees in the region. for these reasons, i voted in favour of using the egf in this case.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we need doctors, epidemiologists, medicines and soldiers who will shoot if necessary a salesian priest from sierra leone dramatically describes the situation. because the war against the viruses in west africa cannot be won without outside help. but sending money to countries in crisis without clear concepts is useless. it's just feeding corrupt governments in sierra leone and liberia. therefore, both the un and the eu must act. this means mobile hospitals, medicines, doctors and experts in diseases who can train health workers again, and a separate un mandate for the affected countries and soldiers who, if necessary, will also take up arms to protect the victims and the helpers. so we need to act quickly so that this epidemic doesn't actually become a pandemic.
i have to say, madam president, we are all very much in agreement on the rejection of isis. the resolution also warns against thinking only in the short term and says that we should focus on this problem in the longer term. i was in iraq in august, and i visited the refugee camps there. four million people have been driven from their homes, from their villages in the region. this problem will not go away once isis is defeated. i spoke to a father there who was about my age. he has two daughters and he said, "i have two little girls here in a refugee camp. if they have to live in this camp for ten years, i will do everything i can to get them to europe so that they can have a future. as a father, i understand that he behaves like this. we in the european parliament, who do not have to make day-to-day policy but can think long term, must also think about how we can help this region to rebuild over the next ten years. we must commit ourselves to programmes that make this reconstruction possible. because only then can we live in peace with our neighbours in this region. only then can we really help.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank mr kellam. my question concerns the christians who had to flee there, leaving behind their homes and possessions. do you see a chance that with communication and public relations in iraq, maybe we could create an awareness that they don't have to leave their own country, their home country, permanently, and have a future as refugees? do you see a chance to do some communication work here in iraq?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. our values are not their values, and they never will be. i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to give us the benefit of the doubt. we all, or many of us, are familiar with the gruesome images that come to us from this region, where children are playing football with their heads cut off. that is something we cannot allow. an austrian newspaper headlined: isis austria is a terror hotspot. austria is a relatively small country, as you know. there are estimates that we have about 200 fighters in syria. these are people with austrian citizenship. we are not only talking about the fighters, but there are also numerous supporters of the is in austria. and across europe, of course, these numbers are even more dramatic. estimates are over 2,000 fighters. we have imported this problem ourselves with uncontrolled mass immigration. the european fighters of isis are coming back. don't get your hopes up. only green left-wing extremists, such as reimon, who has now proposed to lock fpö politicians in a cellar with these fighters, see otherwise. so this is green solution competence of the first kind, as we see it here. these fighters should be stripped of their citizenship first. we must not close our eyes to the enormous problem which the return of these fighters to europe, to austria, will present us with.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it's very thoughtful of you to let me speak. i have a question of principle. obviously, it may have escaped your appreciated attention and that of your staff that i have reported with a "blue card". can you explain to me why it was not possible to actually see this 'blue card'? why didn't you give me the opportunity to ask a colleague? was it because you didn't see me? was i too quiet? was the 'blue card' too little blue, or are there other reasons why you could not give me the floor while i was pointing?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the events in syria and northern iraq are not the kind of military conflicts that unfortunately occur all the time. the systematic terror of the islamic caliphate represents a total break with almost everything we have known. it is therefore right to oppose these deliberate taboos with all determination. the is terrorism is using inhuman methods to establish a totalitarian regime and to end the centuries-old coexistence of people of different ethnic and religious backgrounds in the region. the european union has also been involved in the process of negotiating the peace agreement with the united states, which is a very important step in the process of negotiating the peace agreement with the united states. thousands were killed, and it almost became a terrible genocide. the people of this region deserve our attention. the future of our civilization is at stake in northern iraq and syria, and i do not mean just the future of europe.
in writing. the recent events in iraq and syria are further evidence that eu foreign policy in the middle east has not played its role properly. much could have been avoided if the eu had intervened in time. once again, we must follow events, and although europe has closer links to the region, both geographically and historically, we take the united states' leadership for granted. if the eu had put adequate pressure on the (former) iraqi government in time to represent all groups of the population, is could not have spread and played its murderous role. similarly, the eu should not have stood by for years in syria to watch bloodshed, but should have used its power and influence to ensure that president assad could not continue to expand the brutal civil war. i now hope that the new eu external representative will be able to identify conflict zones in time and bring the european union's diplomatic weight to hinkunft accordingly.
in writing. isis is about violence, intolerance and crime. in the eyes of isis, people of other faiths are lawless. hundreds of thousands have fled, including many christians. and europe has been and is a defender of christian values. the eu cannot therefore be the only option to act more decisively in this area. it is a duty to our own values and roots. all it takes for evil to triumph is for good people to do nothing. but we are not the only ones who have to react. i miss the screams of the muslim world. when mohammed is caricatured, their religious leaders cry for retribution, but when christians are executed en masse for their religion, there is no response. i fear that this is considered a gentleman's offense in some muslim countries, perhaps even secretly cheered!
i have to say, madam president, i think that the european parliament can be proud of its annual report on the situation of human rights and democracy in the world. it allows us to take stock and improve our strategies and methods. the report also underlines the seriousness with which europe is dealing with human rights issues. they are an important criterion of european foreign policy and it would be desirable that this should become even more apparent especially when the protection of human rights comes into conflict with other economic or geopolitical interests. the world is watching very closely to see if we are serious about our human rights policy. the union has created very good instruments to ensure the sustainability and coherence of its human rights policy: the european instrument for democracy and human rights and the special representative for human rights, whom i would like to congratulate very warmly on his positive work. i think it is positive that european human rights policy also emphasises content and, in addition to traditional priorities, also highlights current aspects such as the protection of fundamental rights on the internet. but here again the question of credibility arises. unfortunately, although we have dealt with this many times in this house, we have not drawn any conclusions from the nsa affair. it is also a matter of serious concern that, while we are holding our plenary session here, hundreds of people are dying trying to cross the mediterranean. it has something to do with human rights.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank mr landsbergis. i would like to know how you assess the human rights situation in kaliningrad - which is on the border with the european union - and how you see the developments here.
a writer. - madam president! - what is it? azerbaijan has been a member of the council of europe for 13 years, and this is an important achievement for this country and for europe. it is even currently holding its presidency. the heart of the council of europe is the european convention on human rights, and azerbaijan must be measured against these standards. despite official claims, the human rights situation has continued to deteriorate and the scope of ngos is systematically restricted. under dubious pretexts, people who exercise their right to freedom of expression are harassed and sentenced to prison terms. during his visit two weeks ago, commissioner füle acknowledged the efforts of civil society in such conditions and assured the european union of its full attention. the resolution we are debating must be seen against this background. she has been working on a number of cases like əliyev and yunus, where people are persecuted for their human rights work. our resolution is a serious warning sign: there can be no more lasting european perspective if the present practice is continued.
a writer. - madam president! - what is it? burundi is not only one of the poorest countries in africa, it is still suffering the consequences of a cruel civil war which lasted 12 years and which led to a terrible genocide. it was only with the arusha agreement that this tragic chapter was brought to an end. the parties to the conflict had agreed to a national reconciliation based on the principles of the rule of law, tolerance and democracy, with respect for human rights. for a long time, it seemed as if the country could cast off the shadows of the past. in recent years, however, it has increasingly strayed from this promising path. one of the loudest voices to publicly point out this regrettable development is human rights activist pierre claver mbonimpa. he was arrested in may of this year on trumped-up charges. burundi is a recipient of considerable european funds. parliamentary elections are due next year. in this context, it is essential to remind the country of its self-stated commitments. the release of political prisoners is a key test for this.
a writer. - madam president! - what is it? bangladesh is one of the most populous countries in asia and an important trading partner of europe. we get a considerable part of our consumer goods from this country. reports of inhumane working conditions are constantly coming in. the existence of democracy and respect for human rights is therefore of immediate importance. bangladesh has committed itself to upholding the rule of law and implementing a zero tolerance policy towards violations of human rights standards by the authorities. ngos and trade unions that promote ilo standards and exercise the right to freedom of expression are increasingly facing state pressure. religious and ethnic minorities are also under pressure. activists are imprisoned or victims of so-called enforced disappearances. these developments are worrying and are hindering the country's development path. a positive development of the country is in the interest of the region and in the interest of the peaceful development of the region as a whole.
i have to say, madam president, when we talk about human rights violations in bangladesh, we must not forget the seven million children who work up to 15 hours a day, seven days a week, in inhuman conditions, mainly in the textile industry. if we buy a t-shirt for ten dollars, the worker is left with a starvation wage of 0.03 dollars. the eu is bangladesh's largest textile trading partner. we import clothing worth 15 billion euros a year. that means we have a responsibility too and we can no longer be lazy. we should consider giving a quality label to products that are produced under humane conditions and paid fair wages, if we can verify this. the consumer should decide in europe. many europeans, many consumers, would be willing to pay a few euros, a few dollars more for a similar product.
in writing. the commission is not the amnesty international report 2013 outlines the status quo: "the situation is not as it should be. in 2012, some 30 extrajudicial executions are reported to have been carried out. security forces have been involved in torture and other ill-treatment, and in at least 10 cases of 'disappearances'. there is no improvement in sight, even though the government in bangladesh claims to have observed no human rights violations. prisoners continue to be systematically tortured until they confess to crimes. this kind of medieval truth-seeking is still present in bangladesh in 2014. suspects are arrested and found shot dead in the streets the next day. the commission has not yet received any information on the alleged infringement. as a substitute member of the femm committee, however, i was shocked by the following lines in the report: women continue to be subject to various forms of violence. these include acid attacks, murder, flogging by illegal arbitration boards, domestic and sexual violence. in particular, the case of aleya begum and her daughter, who were arrested without a warrant and raped by police officers. the court acquitted the two women. when they spoke out about the rapes, they were arrested again and now imprisoned. who knows what kind of torture they've had to endure this time. unfortunately, european feminism is concerned with linguistic 'equality' rather than addressing where real suffering is occurring.
in writing. this motion for a resolution paints a one-sided picture of this conflict, influenced by the western media. when it comes to the situation in ukraine and relations with russia, russia is automatically assigned any blame. the petition clearly speaks of an 'illegal annexation' of crimea, although this is controversial under international law, especially since a large majority in the region voted for russia. i also think that the proposal to send nato troops and weapons to ukraine is not a good idea, because it would only aggravate the situation and harden the front lines. i therefore voted against this motion for a resolution without hesitation.
in writing. the motion for a resolution in question paints a somewhat one-sided picture of the situation in ukraine and relations with russia. he clearly speaks of an "illegal annexation" of crimea, although this is controversial under international law and a large majority of the region's predominantly russian population voted for annexation to russia. i also think that the nato proposal to send troops and weapons to ukraine is not a good idea, because it would only aggravate the situation and harden the front lines. i therefore voted against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. the pandemic was initially so underestimated that the spread of ebola in west africa has become a major global security challenge. in addition, according to the who, an increase to more than 20 000 patients is forecast for the next three months. in order to halt the threat of social and economic collapse in the affected countries, access to existing treatment methods should be accelerated and the use of military means under un leadership should be considered. in addition to financial resources, there is a need for appropriate operational capacity, in particular qualified personnel and logistical material. i could not but agree to this proposal. however, the long-term consequences of this pandemic must also be carefully calculated: the flow of refugees to europe will increase significantly.
in writing. the spread of the ebola virus in west africa, which was initially underestimated, is now a major global security challenge. in addition, according to the who, an increase to more than 20 000 patients is forecast for the next three months. in order to halt the threat of social and economic collapse in the affected countries, access to existing treatment methods should be accelerated and the use of military means under un leadership should be considered. in addition to financial resources, there is a need for appropriate operational capacity, in particular qualified personnel and logistical material. i agree with those demands and have therefore voted in favour of them.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because a rapid and coordinated action against the jihadists of is must be a priority. these self-styled warriors of god are stealing, expelling, murdering and raping hundreds of thousands of civilians in the middle east. however, this motion for a resolution is a mere declaration, since concrete measures are sought in vain in this text. in substance, i fully support the call for compliance with un security council resolutions 2161 and 2170, since the illicit trade in oil with is and the oil fields occupied by is is not only an unprecedented double standard but also primarily finances terrorism against the christian and muslim minorities. it is also entirely true that is terrorism will spread to europe, as an estimated 2000 to 2500 'europeans' have voluntarily joined is and travelled to syria and/or iraq to participate in the massacres against the civilian population. the enormous potential danger is the return of these jihadists to europe. but i fear that rehabilitation and reintegration, if there has ever been integration, is doomed to failure.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because a rapid and coordinated action against the jihadists of is must be a priority. these self-styled warriors of god are stealing, expelling, murdering and raping hundreds of thousands of civilians in the middle east. however, this motion for a resolution is a mere declaration, since concrete measures are sought in vain in this text. in substance, i fully support the call for compliance with un security council resolutions 2161 and 2170, since the illicit trade in oil with is and the oil fields occupied by is is not only an unprecedented double standard but also primarily finances terrorism against the christian and muslim minorities. it is also entirely true that is terrorism will spread to europe, as an estimated 2000 to 2500 'europeans' have voluntarily joined is and travelled to syria and/or iraq to participate in the massacres against the civilian population. the enormous potential danger is the return of these jihadists to europe. but i fear that rehabilitation and reintegration, if there has ever been integration, is doomed to failure.
in writing. i regret that i could not agree with the european parliament's resolution of 18 september 2014 on israel and palestine after the gaza conflict and the role of the eu. the resolution is a step in the right direction, but i think it is too vague and is a mere declaration of intent. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the resolution of this crisis is essential to the establishment of peace throughout the middle east. a good solution must therefore also have a preventive component, and thus address the root of the conflict.
, in writing. since 2000, almost 30 extreme weather events have been recorded in europe. the lives of thousands of people have been greatly altered by this storm. natural disasters do not stop at national borders, and thus transnational work and assistance in this area is important and needed. on the one hand to protect the population as best as possible from storms and on the other hand to help after storms! in the field of flood control in particular, a lot can be achieved in advance with the right financial resources. in view of the change in precipitation and the increase in extreme weather events, i warmly welcome the work of the commission and would like to call for further efforts in this area!
in writing. the ebola epidemic is now a priority issue for the eu: eu foreign ministers decided on monday to create the position of eu coordinator in the fight against ebola. last week, eu health ministers held an emergency meeting in brussels to discuss measures to deal with the ebola epidemic with resounding results. and at the eu summit on thursday and friday this week, leaders will not only agree on the 2030 climate goals, but they will also address ebola. so far, europe has allocated 450 million euros to the fight against ebola. according to the world health organization, the failure of many governments and organizations to make accurate estimates of the extent of ebola's spread in west africa was the reason for its rapid spread. the commission's response to the conditions for the rapid spread of the disease, which were apparent from the outset, had been neglected. the who also blamed incompetent staff and bureaucratic delays such as in issuing visas and focus on fighting other diseases. the 4500 deaths and 9000 infections in west africa today are the sad corroboration of the world health organization's findings. and if the response is not significantly increased, who expects 5,000 to 10,000 new ebola cases per week in december. guinea, sierra leone and liberia are currently the countries most affected by the ebola epidemic. if nigeria, senegal and côte d'ivoire are also affected by the disease, the world bank estimates that the economic impact could reach $40 billion by the end of 2015. while the eu is looking for volunteers for the relief effort and wants to organise an airlift to west africa to bring aid and equipment to the crisis area and to evacuate international personnel, the us is relying on entry controls and a rapid response force.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. this summit is the third of its kind. it is important - i do not want to say wonderful - but it is very important that this summit should take place, that the issue of employment should be discussed in a sufficiently serious context. however, the results are more than sobering. the investment plan of 300 billion euros has been discussed, but it is simply too little for the member states to wait for the concrete plans. so it's high time to invest more and more sustainably. i say the same to my predecessor. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. so it's always about the big picture, the macro-economic picture, that young people are embedded in with their destinies and that we can't just wipe out. to do this, the member states need more flexibility in their deficit rules. sustainable investments, such as in infrastructure, renewable energy or education and training, are to be excluded from the calculations. because saving at all costs is the wrong way to go. that is what the imf is telling us now. and you all have noted that. youth employment was a key theme of this summit. i cannot tell you how many times we have discussed this subject in this chamber and how many times we have urged rapid action. nevertheless, the situation of young people is becoming more and more difficult. what is the point of a young person who has already completed his third postgraduate degree if there are no jobs? so again, the macroeconomic environment has to be right! in implementing the youth guarantee, some states need to step up their efforts. yes, that's right. but at the same time the commission must simplify the processes so that the money for the youth initiative is finally collected. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i'll give you that. of course, the procedures must be simplified. i have looked at some examples of how the commission is trying to support projects here. i think that in simplifying the processes, in the cooperation of the labour market administrations, certainly a lot can be done much less bureaucratically. i very much share your view on this.
in writing. europe must develop instruments to promote growth and employment. economic governance must also be strengthened', said italian state secretary benedetto della vedova today as part of the debate on the outcome of the milan employment summit, the third in 15 months. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. and in view of the appalling employment situation in southern europe in particular, one in two young people in spain, italy and greece is unemployed. eur 15 billion is available at european level each year to support youth employment measures. from the youth guarantee where only three of the 34 applications received have been approved so far to the youth employment initiative for regions with a youth unemployment rate of over 25%. experts agree that billions of eu programmes to combat unemployment are at best a drop in the bucket. what europe needs to increase employment in a sustainable way is growth, good conditions for business and innovation, access to sources of finance and the reduction of bureaucracy. the creation of jobs is possible only through a targeted growth policy, a competition policy and a good business environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. ecb president draghi has repeatedly said in recent months that while europe can buy time with its monetary policy, it cannot overcome the problems of the eurozone. the problems of the eurozone can only be overcome by economic policy efforts by the member countries, namely growth-friendly fiscal consolidation and structural reform measures. these actions will be coordinated within the framework of the european semester. the 2014 annual growth survey for the european semester includes five priorities: the growth-friendly fiscal consolidation already mentioned. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i would say that the budget plan submitted by italy will be the litmus test. let's see. i hope you can do it. secondly, the restoration of normal lending to the economy. this is primarily the task of the ecb. thirdly, the promotion of growth and competitiveness. again, this is a task for the member states. fourthly, the fight against unemployment. the first item on the agenda today, in the debate on the employment summit in milan, was that not much is happening. i have the impression that more and more money is being demanded, but in reality no action is being taken. fifthly, the modernisation of administrations. we see in europe that the implementation of the measures is not working. only 10% of the country-specific recommendations have been implemented, 45% have been implemented very little or not at all. the growth-friendly fiscal consolidation is not working either, and the budget plans have been announced. nor is growth picking up in europe. the oecd has lowered its 2014 growth forecast by 0.4 percentage points to 0.8%. that is why i appeal to the member states in their own terms: consolidate your budgets! we must not forget that the european union is a great power. this is the only way europe can overcome the crisis.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. only 10% of the country-specific recommendations were fully implemented, 45% only partially. it is therefore clear that there is a need for action on the european semester. i believe that the implementation of the european semester must become a duty and not just a voluntary exercise. a common currency requires a common budgetary policy. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the budgetary procedure for the financial year 2000 and that the council should adopt a decision on the budgetary procedure for the financial year 2000 in accordance with the procedure laid down in article 109j of the treaty.
, in writing. the time of the bankruptcy-saving must come to an end. europe needs investment, both public and private. this is the only way to stimulate growth while at the same time boosting employment and demand. this must be given the highest priority and be incorporated into the european semester. outgoing commission president barroso said he saw no recessionary risk for the euro area despite zero growth in the second quarter and a bleak outlook for 2015. investment has fallen by 30-40% in some member states since the crisis. the key point will therefore be to exclude sustainable investment from the deficit calculations in order to get countries back on the growth path while not neglecting necessary investment. the investment plan of mr juncker, worth 300 billion euros, is a glimmer of hope. it is of course important that social indicators were taken into account for the first time in the european semester. however, it is incomprehensible why the employment and social objectives are not treated as equivalent - i.e. binding - to the macroeconomic objectives. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. wealth and income inequality have increased sharply in recent years, threatening purchasing power, demand and investment in the real economy. the commission will also be presenting a report on the implementation of the reform of the structural funds.
in the light of the above, the commission has decided to extend the period of validity of the aid to the beneficiaries of the aid, which is to be extended until 31 december 1993. the losses in the finished metal products industry illustrate the rapid decline in european market share in steel production and the simultaneous increase in the market share of countries such as china. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the competitiveness of the steel industry. for these reasons, i voted in favour of using the egf in this case.
in the light of the above, the commission has decided to extend the period of validity of the aid to the beneficiaries of the aid, which is to be extended until 31 december 1993. the losses in the finished metal products industry illustrate the rapid decline in european market share in steel production and the simultaneous increase in the market share of countries such as china, india and korea. it is important to show solidarity and to emphasize the importance of the steel industry for the whole of the european economic area. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the steel industry is not left behind. i have therefore voted in favour of the comunidad valenciana's use of the fund in this case.
in the case of the steel industry, the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's steel industry is not left behind. as the example of the dismissal of 142 workers from the 'comunidad valeciana' company shows, only an effective eu strategy for the steel industry can help create new opportunities and investment in the long term. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european steel industry is competitive.
in writing. - the redundancies at the assembly plant of ford-werke gmbh and at ten of its suppliers are leading to far-reaching and, above all, serious structural changes in the pattern of world trade and to a rapid decline in the eu's market share in the passenger car manufacturing sector. in a local labour market already characterised by high unemployment, low levels of skills and competences and a less developed educational provision, the waves of redundancies that have already occurred and those that will occur in the future have a serious impact. specific measures must therefore be taken as soon as possible to assist workers who have already been made redundant, in order to ensure their rapid reintegration into the labour market. it should be emphasised that the training measures should take account of and build on the specific knowledge and skills acquired by the workers concerned in the automotive and supplier industries. the first priority should therefore be to make all workers available through adequate training. i therefore voted in favour of the use of the egf in this case.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the measures proposed by the french government to reduce the number of employees in the ford plant and its suppliers are not sufficient to ensure that the community's industrial base is maintained. the local labour market, which is already suffering from the structural weakness of the area, is being seriously affected by the waves of redundancies that have already taken place and those that are still to be feared. specific measures must therefore be taken as soon as possible to assist workers who have already been made redundant, in order to ensure their rapid reintegration into the labour market. it should be emphasised that the training measures should take account of and build on the specific knowledge and skills acquired by the workers concerned in the automotive and supplier industries. the first priority should therefore be to make all workers available through adequate training. i therefore voted in favour of the use of this fund in this case.
in writing. - the redundancies at the assembly plant of ford-werke gmbh and at ten of its suppliers confirm the crisis in the european car manufacturing sector. the growing decline in this sector is having a serious impact on the european economy, which is experiencing one of the most severe crises. it is therefore essential to take effective and, above all, specific measures to facilitate the rapid reintegration of those affected by creating training and further training places for these specific workers and by trying to place them as workers in the european automotive industry. the commission has therefore given priority to training in this area. i voted in favour of the proposal to mobilise the egf in this respect.
in writing. - the large number of redundancies resulting from the closure of the carsid sa production plant is linked to the major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. the losses in this industry illustrate the rapid decline in european market share in steel production and the simultaneous increase in the market share of countries such as china. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the competitiveness of the steel industry. for these reasons, i voted in favour of using the egf in this case.
in the case of the steel industry, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the aid is not used to finance the steel industry's activities. the large number of redundancies resulting from the closure of the carsid sa production plant is linked to the major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. the losses in this industry illustrate the rapid decline in european market share in steel production and the simultaneous increase in the market share of countries such as china. the steel industry has always been the backbone of our industrial production. it is therefore crucial to adopt an effective union strategy for the steel industry, not least to maintain competitiveness. i have voted in favour of using this fund in this case.
in the case of the steel industry, the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's steel industry is not left behind. as the closure of the 'carsid sa' production plant shows, only an effective eu strategy for the steel industry in europe can help create new opportunities and investment in the long term. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european steel industry is competitive.
in writing. - the redundancies at psa are linked to the major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. the losses in the automobile manufacturing sector in western europe illustrate the rapid decline in european market share and the simultaneous increase in the market share of third countries. the need to adopt an effective strategy to maintain competitiveness will become all the more important. for these reasons, i voted in favour of using the egf in this case.
in the light of the foregoing, the commission considers that the aid granted to the psa group is compatible with the common market. the purpose of the use of the fund is to help the group restore its competitiveness. the french authorities have not provided any evidence that the psa group has been able to obtain a profit before tax on the sale of the psa group's shares in psa. the losses in the automobile manufacturing sector in western europe illustrate the rapid decline in european market share and the simultaneous increase in the market share of third countries. the need to adopt an effective strategy to maintain competitiveness will become all the more important. i have voted in favour of the use of the fund on the basis of these considerations.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. as the psa layoffs illustrate, only an effective eu strategy for the automotive industry can help create new opportunities and investment in the long term. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european automobile industry is competitive.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i would like to ask the honourable member what he thinks of the fourth objective, which is so important for us in europe in terms of creating new jobs, namely the 20% reindustrialisation rate we have set for 2020, and whether he considers it likely that we can also achieve a binding 30% reindustrialisation rate, in order to finally be able to combat unemployment in many countries in europe, and what priorities he would set here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if the council now in october wants to change course on energy policy, it may be the fateful day for europe's energy-intensive industry. because although our industry has reduced emissions since 1980, companies are now expected to reduce their co2 emissions by up to 40%. we already have the highest energy prices in the world with japan for electricity, twice the cost of gas in the united states, three to four times that of canada and the united states. the planned reduction commitments would also be unrealistic and above all unfair from these points of view, as the austrian voestalpine group's example clearly shows. the voestalpine group is being penalized because of its good performance, increasing production, and having one of the lowest co2 emissions in europe. it is being asked to pay a large sum in net emissions trading. the acquisition needs are expected to increase by eur 800 million by 2020 and possibly by eur 2.3 billion by 2030. this is how we kill our factories! we are forcing our industry to move abroad, to third countries. what we need are smart solutions, an allocation of free certificates based on current benchmarks and not on the figures of 2008 or 2007. we need a distribution by emission intensity. our companies need planning certainty and, above all, the reduction targets must be comparable worldwide and also harmonisable accordingly.
the committee also adopted a number of opinions on the following subjects: - mr president, i have to go. i would also like to congratulate the commission on the draft, because of course next year is the year of development policy and we must put a priority on this, but we also see that urgency and rapid payments are of the utmost importance. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and parliament, and the council will be consulted on the matter. i believe that neighbourhood policy and humanitarian aid are absolute priorities. i therefore do not understand why the council is making massive cuts in this area, as well as in category 1, where research is concerned, particularly on ebola and various other diseases. we need these research programmes urgently and the delay in payment that is taking place in the meantime is totally irresponsible. that is why i believe that we must have tough negotiations here to achieve our objectives.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commissioner-designate for the budget, ms georgieva, said at the hearing before the committee on budgets that the eu budget directly affects people's lives and that it was our task as european politicians to explain the added value of the european budget. i would like to support that statement. i therefore find it all the more questionable why the council is presenting a budget which cuts in areas which are so important to people's lives, such as competitiveness, growth and employment, social affairs and research, so that the europe 2020 objectives are even further away than they are now, why funds for development cooperation are being cut in the european year of development and humanitarian aid is also being cut, why the problem of outstanding payments, the payment gap, is still not solved, so that donors still have to pay for their promised payments and why there are still such antiquated, outdated subsidies such as for the sticker and for farmers who only receive subsidies for breeding sticks for the purpose of the sticker. we greens will put these amendments to the vote tomorrow and hope that many colleagues in this house will take their responsibilities. it is about the credibility of this house and the eu budget.
in writing. as we are talking about the budget today, i would also like to mention the second hidden administrative apparatus: by delegating responsibilities to agencies, the commission has embellished its budget. this budgetary trick leads the commission to falsely claim budgetary savings, even though, if the eu agencies' budgets were included, they would be exceeded by up to 20%. these agencies will continue to be a burden on the european union budget in the coming years, as a growth trend is evident. the number of agencies has almost quadrupled since 2000 and the number of staff has increased by 4000%. however, one could agree with vice-president lunacek that further expenditure of €1.7 billion is justified by the european taxpayer. however, i do not see any added value for the citizens of europe in the work of the many agencies which would justify a further burden. in the absence of any detectable added value, such agencies shall be closed immediately. on the one hand, many of these agencies are insignificant, since their remit is already regulated by other european institutions or their activities relate to areas in which the european union does not have exclusive competence. however, there is also overlap in the tasks of the agencies. this justifies the closure or merger of individual agencies.
i have to say, madam president, we now have the situation where the issue of hungary has been put on the agenda by alde and the left. however, the interest in the subject on the other side does not seem to be very great. it seems that populism is a bit more involved. the epp is a party of the european people's party, and i am not a member of the epp. this is a very special position. now even woman in the field can contradict herself twice in one word message. i congratulate you on that, because you say, on the one hand, that the commissioner should not be so clear-cut in her adherence to the law. on the other hand, you say it must uphold the rule of law. that's not the same thing, you should know that. but nevertheless, for the xth time, we have the subject of hungary on the agenda, and i will tell you this: i am a friend of hungary, and as an austrian, i am also a neighbour. this government was elected by a clear majority of hungarians. you have to respect that. whether you like it or not is irrelevant. that's a fact. to date, there has been no violation of the law here. and just because a left-left majority in this house does not like this government, you have to accept it anyway, and that is far from being a violation of fundamental rights.
in writing. in recent years, hungary has taken a worrying turn under viktor orbán. the common values of the union have been progressively undermined or openly violated. the hungarian prime minister's policy is particularly damaging the freedom of the press. special taxes restrict the scope of media critical of the government. the crackdown on ngos critical of the government is reminiscent of undemocratic power structures that are otherwise found only outside europe. it is feared that this policy will become entrenched and spread to other countries. it is therefore important to oppose such tendencies with all clarity. the european parliament has, in the past parliamentary term, set out in the tavares report a way forward for dealing with member states which systematically violate the copenhagen criteria. the admission of a country to the eu is bound up with these conditions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if the dialogue with hungary is not successful, infringement proceedings and, as a last resort, the withdrawal of voting rights are appropriate. the european union is a community of values. when a member state says goodbye to liberal freedoms, as victor orban recently suggested in a speech, it is indirectly saying goodbye to the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. you were not at all sad yesterday when mr barroso was voted out. and today there will be no joy in the enthronement of mr juncker and his commission. i can explain why this is the case: because neither barroso nor juncker are candidates for the european family of nations, neither are candidates for the hearts of the peoples of europe, and because both represent the minimum consensus of the european nomenclature and therefore, in our view, cannot have the appropriate legitimacy. mr juncker, what about when you said: 'you have to lie when it gets serious'? and, mr juncker, what about when you said: 'you drive the train of centralisation further and further, and you wait until there is sufficient resistance from the population, and then you go on'? i can tell you that we reject you as a person, we reject your commission. we reject it because it does not have sufficient democratic legitimacy, and we also reject it because many people are involved in economic and industrial interests. and if we do that today and say no, we are speaking for europe and for the european family of nations.
mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! as catherine of siena said, it is not the beginning that is rewarded, but the endurance alone. the commission's initiative is nevertheless a sign of hope. we have the most democratically legitimised commission president and therefore the most independent. it presents us with a structure of the commission which has the potential to make the commission a government, to make it more efficient, to give it political responsibility and to put projects above national interests. we in parliament, the political groups and the council must adapt to this method of working on projects and cooperation and also introduce reforms. we are faced with a president of the commission who wants to make policy and is ready to take responsibility with his commission. his message is clear. i ask you to listen and read and not to assume anything negative at the outset. this commission is an ecosocial market economy commission. it is one that supports investment, that wants to make the eu a global player, that reduces energy dependence, reduces it dependence, builds the single market and understands growth and competitiveness as an activity of social cohesion. but i also ask you to remember one thing: communication and information. the citizens must know what we are doing, when we are doing it and why. so this project must be above all else. have a good day.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr juncker, i was recently in the united states - in washington - for ttip. i also spoke to american trade unionists. one of them said: ttip is not a treaty between two states. this is a treaty where big corporations on both sides of the atlantic try to impose their rules on everyone else. that would mean less democracy, less freedom, less rule of law for europe. i know you have raised this, but i would ask you once again to be very careful here. be very careful here. free trade is important, but the rest of what makes europe, namely our rule of law, our democracy and our freedom, must not be sacrificed on the altar of free trade. (applause from the centre)
in writing. jean-claude juncker is the new president of the european commission. the commission's proposal is not a mere proposal to make a new budget. the only difference is that the emperor can, in general, choose his own clothes, whereas juncker was dressed by the european heads of government to keep him in the picture. he must wear what the prime ministers sent him to brussels. but even the trial was not left to him alone. parliament carefully checked whether the sleeve length, waistband and height actually fit, and occasionally made changes. in the end, no, enough of the parallels, in the end one candidate was sent home for poor performance, some other future commissioners had reservations of one kind or another. so now jean-claude juncker is coming with his new team. in his speech before the vote he said a lot of the right things: the often quoted €300 billion investment programme of the eu is 'very close to his heart' - that is why he will present it in its details not in three months but before christmas. "this commission is the commission of last resort - either we succeed in bringing europe closer to the people or we fail once and for all". as parliamentarians, we will be watching him closely from now on.
in writing. - as the commissioners-designate are neither qualified for their tasks nor democratically legitimised by the european citizen, i could only vote against them in this election.
in writing. - i have always been firmly opposed to the ever-increasing concentration of power in the commission. the new commission under juncker is another major step forward in the european union towards centralisation, opacity and lobbying. as i do not see any member of this new commission as having sufficient democratic legitimacy, and as i am also in favour of reducing the number of commissioners, i voted against the motion.
in the case of the new commission under mr juncker, the eu is taking another big step towards centralism, lack of transparency and lobbying. i am not saying that the commission should be left alone, but i am saying that it should be left alone.
in writing. - the vote was on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015. the budget has increased again compared with the previous year. the additional funds required are justified by a further increase in expenditure. this justification does not seem to me to be sufficient, since concrete figures are not generally provided. in addition, since the principle of subsidiarity requires that austrian sovereignty be the rule and european regulation the exception, i could not agree to an increase in funding for the decentralised agencies (recital 6). in this connection, i would also like to point out the enormous administrative costs of these agencies (up to 71% of the total budget). that is why i did not approve the motion.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposed amendments to the draft budget for the financial year 2015 are not sufficient to ensure that the budgetary impact of the proposed amendments is not significantly reduced. on the one hand, programmes and projects that were cut back during the economic crisis, such as various agencies and the promotion of civil society, are being increased. on the other hand, important components of economic growth, especially those of smes, are being neglected. the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european parliamentary assembly. for these and other reasons i voted against this report.
in writing. - i rejected the resolution because, contrary to the council's position, the european parliament is opposed to a reduction in budgetary appropriations. the additional funds required are justified by a steadily increasing expenditure. i do not think that this justification is sufficient, since concrete figures are not generally provided. in addition, since the principle of subsidiarity requires that austrian sovereignty be the rule and european regulation the exception, i could not agree to an increase in funding for the decentralised agencies (recital 6). in this connection, i would point out the enormous administrative costs of these agencies (up to 71% of the total budget).
in writing. - the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2015 is less a matter of cuts than of gross misinvestment. on the one hand, programmes and projects whose meaning is difficult to convey to the public in times of financial crisis, such as various agencies or the support of certain civil societies, are being increased. on the other hand, important components of economic growth, especially those of small and medium-sized enterprises, are being neglected. the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european parliamentary assembly. i have therefore voted against this report.
in the case of the united states, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the united states. as the currently highly controversial example of ttip shows, this is having an increasingly negative impact on citizens' perception that consumer protection and sustainable economic development are being sufficiently taken into account. this is not primarily a question of integrating croatia into the european single market and adapting the relevant framework agreements, but reflects my fundamental scepticism at this stage about extending the circle of participants in existing free trade agreements. that is why i voted against the motion.
in writing. - the european semester was designed primarily to harmonize the future economic development of the european union. i believe that this harmonization is another step towards the creation of a bureaucratic monster which is increasingly also bearing traces of a socialist planned economy. the european union should concentrate on its core task of creating an optimally functioning internal market, rather than delegating economic powers to the member states. i voted against the motion for these reasons.
mr president, now you've created a little confusion. the european union must be determined to fight isil and take action against isil, della vedova said of the council here in parliament today. but, mr president, i cannot see that determination, even if it is the best of intentions, when it comes to the european union. kobane is just one of the problems that isis is causing us, because isis today intercepted an american arms shipment, for example, and there are already reports that isis is using poison gas. they're not just from kobane. the role of turkey - i can also mention that here, and some colleagues have done so - should be discussed as a separate item on the agenda. i encourage this, as do the groups ecr or efdd: let us discuss this in a separate item on the agenda. in any case, the european union's payments should be suspended for a while. that would be an act. but the persecution of the yazidis is also on the rise, with 7,000 of them being killed in the sinjar mountains. there are already un officials who speak of genocide, who speak of enslavement, who speak of rape of women, and the same picture is seen almost everywhere. we must deal with this and especially with turkey. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you for your question, mr president. there are media reports today. there's no proof yet because it was only discovered yesterday, tuesday. that's what i said. i said, "there are reports of it".
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we agree that we want to condemn the murderers and mass murderers of isis all. but it's relatively easy, and they won't listen to us. i have also heard a lot of criticism of turkey, and it is also relatively easy to do, even if i share many of those criticisms. i think we should be braver about talking about our own role in this. how credible can our criticism be if we are increasing border protection in the mediterranean, if we are increasingly strengthening it, if we are letting women and children who make it out of kobane, who make it to safety, drown in the mediterranean and not rescue them? the european union should be a model in dealing with refugees from this crisis region. we should think beyond kobane now the disaster will pass too. there are two things we should be doing long-term: one, stop the funding of isis. it's about oil smuggling, which is most likely going to europe. secondly, we need a long-term development plan for this region. the european union must not be allowed to be a mere spectator, but a spectator of the world.
mr president, one of the real tragedies of kobane is that it has also served as an enormous distraction. the international media has a front row seat on the hills in turkey and beam with their tele-lenses and dishes the daily destruction into our living rooms. but we are witnessing a microcosmos of the war and thereby forgetting the bigger picture. this war in syria has been raging on for more than three years, with over 200 000 dead and millions displaced. yes, isis is a big threat to the stability of the region – but what stability, i may ask? isis has also contributed to the diplomatic resurgence of president al-assad. we must not forget that he started the war against his own people, and now he is coming very close to being courted again. that must not happen, dear colleagues. i sincerely hope that federica mogherini, the new foreign affairs commissioner, will bring a decisive european voice to the table – a voice that has been absent for too long. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i see clearly that you are trying to put me on the spot, but in any case i think that there needs to be close cooperation with nato in all respects. mr lambsdorff has pointed out – rightly so – that nato has to play an important role in this affair, particularly as far as turkey is concerned. but i still think that the europeans have to get their act together and have to see what they can contribute in order to solve problems like the ones that are immediately in front of their doorsteps.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the events in hong kong are of fundamental importance. that's why millions of people around the world, especially in china, are watching how things are unfolding. most are hopeful that these events can usher in the beginning of a positive development in hong kong and beyond. it is therefore welcome that the high representative is issuing a statement on hong kong in this situation. so the events in hong kong are not only of local significance, they allow us to assess how far china is standing up to the commitments it has made. the formula of 'one country, two systems' during hong kong's transition allowed the city to continue to enjoy democratic conditions. this was a great improvement over conditions in the adjacent areas of china. it was perceived as deficient by the local population of students, intellectuals or trade unionists. hong kong is one of the richest regions in the world with a high level of inequality. many people are therefore very interested in change and in having a say. the origin of the protests was also here. it is therefore worth supporting citizens who are committed to developing democracy and fighting to transform a flawed democracy into a real democracy. although not everything was negotiated in the 1980s as it is today: the principle of democracy is precisely that it can be developed further. a willingness to accept such a thing would be good for china. unfortunately, beijing refuses to engage in constructive dialogue with the protesters, and unfortunately beijing is also resorting to repressive measures against all those who show solidarity with hong kong democracy in china. this policy is not only contrary to human rights principles, it is also shortsighted. in the long term, no society based on market principles can survive without democratic structures. the principle of 'one country, two systems' would also allow china to gain the necessary experience for this unstoppable process. the people of hong kong are therefore fighting for freedom in hong kong. but they're also fighting for democracy in china.
the commission has already done so. i think we can all agree that we must do everything we can to fight this monster with every means at our disposal. but we must not be under the illusion that a few targeted air operations can overcome these forces. the tightening of border controls, which is often touted as a panacea, will only partially solve the problem, because isis is not a group of individuals who have gone wild, but a criminal organisation with an ideological blindness, about which we know far too little about its motives, its links and its entrenchment in certain environments. to defeat such a menacing enemy, we need detailed knowledge. the threat posed by is was largely hidden from intelligence services, which often have a wealth of information about ordinary citizens, until recently. we must also note with regret that our allies in the region often do not clearly and clearly enough distinguish themselves from these declared enemies of democracy. this is a clear call and there must be no tactical play with is for any reason. the main objective is to prevent is from recruiting a significant number of its criminal operatives in the west. we cannot allow young men and women from our cities to be recruited by primitive propaganda. we must fight together with the leaders of the muslim communities in our member states to dry up these environments - with passion and empathy, not by excluding these people. there are already a number of member states where such prevention work is proving successful. the fight against isis is a comprehensive one, and it requires the entire arsenal of our attention.
mr president, commissioner, representatives of the council! our union motto 'united in diversity' is about and includes a credo for national, ethnic and religious tolerance and diversity in europe. it is also a battle for us in europe, a battle against fundamentalism and particularly islamic fundamentalism. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. in concrete terms, this is a huge security challenge, and it is today, now, not tomorrow, that we must protect our citizens, our families in europe! if only 10% of these 3,000 europeans return, we have hundreds of time bombs here. isis even advertises that the terrorist acts of these fighters bring them islamic glory and honor. here with us! i welcome the decision of the eu's interior ministers to effectively protect our external borders with increased security screening. the fundamental right to the highest level of security requires the promotion of eu security initiatives such as the targeted analysis of passenger data. the terrorist who carried out the attack on the jewish museum in brussels travelled from france via turkey to the territory of the islamic state and then via turkey and frankfurt to europe. here too our coalition partner in the new commission must show some movement. we must be firm and decisive. let us prevent the recruitment of europeans here. yes, but let us not neglect the external protection of europe's borders, because this is electoral aid for the populists, who then win many votes in elections.
we now continue our debate on the council declaration on the joint police operation mos maiorum (2014/2902(rsp)).
i have to say, madam president, for years, europe has been unable to solve its migration problem. the member states are not prepared to tackle a major forward-looking solution, but instead are trying to cling stubbornly to the inadequate instrument of the dublin regulation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it might seem that political marketing is being used to cover up this failure. it is called the "mare nostrum", "triton", or "mos maiorum". that sounds nice. but no 'mos maiorum' suggests the capacity to act. the meaningfulness of this is debatable. we have heard today that many legal principles are also being violated. you have to take this very seriously. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject.
mr president, mr president of the council! i would like to return to the agencies now. the agencies are legally separate from the eu institutions, and are separate legal entities set up to carry out certain tasks under eu law. gerek, the body of european regulators for electronic communications, is one of the decentralised agencies that perform technical, scientific and administrative tasks and support the eu institutions in implementing policy. in this way, they promote the pooling of expertise and know-how in the eu institutions and national authorities, and cooperation between the eu and the governments of the eu countries. the decentralised agencies are set up in the various countries for an indefinite period. we relieved most of the agencies this spring, except for gerek. as has been said today, it was not because there were gross errors here, but because there were a number of small inconsistencies or omissions which took time to clarify. i think it is worth noting that there are inaccuracies in budget monitoring, improvements in the preparation, implementation and documentation of the procurement procedures, lack of information on policy in the case of conflicts of interest, lack of transparency in declarations of financial interests, etc. gerek has of course been given the opportunity to comment on all these allegations. they did, and we got an office report in july, and it shows that most of these allegations have been corrected and there will be improvements in the future. we therefore believe that, following this report, berec should be given a discharge. i must also say today that i would like to thank my colleagues very much for their cooperation with the agencies, but also for the good cooperation with the court of auditors. i believe that this is the way to ensure that the tax money of the european taxpayer is used in a sensible, efficient and productive way.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to thank the council very much, because the constructive offer to work together towards a discharge is very important to all of us. the european public no longer cares about the fact that no discharge has been given. so the point is to develop alternatives to actually achieve this relief. we also recognize the principle of separation of powers and we know that the european court of auditors is very thorough. that is why we are focusing on the use of the funds in order to be transparent to the citizen. we have also seen in gerek that the european parliament is also concerned with problems and does not want to act as a criminal authority here, but we are concerned with learning together, improving and creating incentives so that the european public can see that we are working well here, that we are working transparently and that we can understand what has been decided. this is why building policy is about trying to avoid mistakes that have been made in the past in a long-term strategic way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we welcome the council's proposal to make a serious attempt to give the council discharge, as it has done with gerek.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to take this opportunity to remind all of us of the problems of the euro. this common currency was created to bring growth, stability and prosperity across our continent. today, the opposite is manifest in the face of the numbers. the debts of the states are exploding. private debt is exploding. the purchasing power of the euro is constantly being eroded by mr mario draghi's zero interest policy. we have de facto 0% policy rates and real, real measurable inflation of certainly beyond 5%. many people can no longer afford to live. look at the food industry, the catering industry. many people are no longer able to make ends meet. what we urgently need now is to stop this series of attempts to save the euro in this way, because it has brought us deeper and deeper into the crisis. a division into northern and southern europe would be a way of restoring stability to our continent.
a writer. - madam president! - what is it? the news that the russian authorities are closing memorial is extremely worrying, not only because it is an organisation that has been awarded the sakharov prize by the european parliament, and not only because it is part of a chain of similar measures. the way a country views its past also says a lot about how it views its future. stalinism was an unimaginable crime against humanity. there's nothing to explain. the rigorous examination of one's own past is an important act of political hygiene. we have had this experience in the german-speaking countries and we have benefited from it. this work of remembrance has prepared the ground for the values of western democracy to be considered as unshakable for us. facing the past is a sign of strength and an investment in the future.
a writer. - madam president! - what is it? even after independence, uzbekistan has failed to guarantee respect for human rights. the country was also subject to international sanctions. these were cancelled because the government promised improvements. despite claims to the contrary, however, human rights activists continue to be systematically threatened, inhumane and degrading conditions prevail in prisons, and among the prisoners are political activists, journalists and intellectuals, women and men. prisoners are being tortured and abused - from starvation to sexual violence. ten years after the tragic andishan massacre, it is finally time for the country to live up to its promises. we are happy to support the country in this. i think it is very important to hear this call from europe.
a writer. - madam president! - what is it? the case of the mexican students killed or abducted on 26 september in the presence of local police shows the importance of keeping an eye on the human rights situation in mexico. although the country has made progress in recent years, it must continue on this path with much greater consistency. the relationship with mexico will also be judged by this. but now it is necessary to clarify the events completely and without consideration, not least out of respect and sympathy for the relatives. the full truth about what is going on is also an important prerequisite for a successful fight against the drug cartels, which willfully endanger people's lives. they are the real enemies of mexico, not the young people of iguala.
i have to say, madam president, these are, of course, the incredibly tragic stories we hear from mexico. many colleagues have already discussed this matter here today. our sympathies go out to the families and people affected. the people of mexico are rightly in an uproar. but there are similarly tragic cases of human rights violations in europe. that is why we should, for example, look at the incidents in rotherham, england. what happened? in rotherham, between 1997 and 2013, 1,400 young people, mostly girls, were raped. most of them were girls from socially disadvantaged families. some have been doused with gasoline and forced into sexual acts. it was done by men of pakistani origin. and the authorities in britain just didn't investigate. why didn't anything happen here? why wasn't there an investigation? i can tell you why: because the authorities were afraid of being confronted with accusations of racism. this is something we should definitely put on the agenda.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as an austrian, i have great respect and affection for mexico, its citizens, for what they have achieved in history and for the ties they have with europe. for example, i remember with great appreciation that mexico was the first country to protest at the league of nations, in march 1938, against the anschluss, the annexation of austria by hitler and his nazi regime. with equal respect and affection, we support today the alternative resolution in which we call for an end to impunity, not only in iguala, but also in the case of jyri jaakkola, a finnish citizen, and bety cariño, a mexican citizen, who were killed four years ago in oaxaca. we ask that the words of the government be translated into efficiency and results so that the 43 students are released and that the real investigations come to fruition. we also ask that the global agreement not be updated until this is achieved.
in the case of the united states, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the united states does not become a party to the gatt negotiations. these include the fact that russia and its customs union are currently the largest customer of ukrainian exports. however, russia will impose an import duty of 7.8% on 98% of ukrainian products in order to protect its own market from the flood of european products. the eu has also been active in the fight against corruption and organised crime. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market.
in writing. - ukraine is a historical part of the european family of nations and should be brought closer to the eu both diplomatically and economically. however, the eu must realise that under the current circumstances surrounding the conflict in eastern ukraine and the ongoing sanctions against the russian federation, this process is based on the unilateral interests of the eu and the us. the danger of another cold war here, aided by the diplomatic short-sightedness of the common foreign policy of the member states of the european union, and thus of irrevocably building blocs between east and west, is supported by the association agreement adopted and by this proposal. that is why i voted against this motion.
in writing. - ukraine is a historical part of the european family of nations and should be brought closer to the eu both diplomatically and economically. however, the eu must realise that under the current circumstances surrounding the conflict in eastern ukraine and the ongoing sanctions against the russian federation, this process is based on the unilateral interests of the eu and the us. the danger that this will encourage another cold war and thus irreversibly create blocs between east and west through the diplomatic shortsightedness of eu foreign policy is supported by the association agreement adopted and by this proposal. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. - i voted against the discharge of the bureau of the body of european regulators, because 'cooperation' with the council in this area deprives parliament of its core competence. the responsibility for allocating funds and, above all, for checking that they are being used properly, must remain with parliament.
in writing. - the vote was on discharge to be given to the bureau of the body of european government bodies for electronic communications for the financial year 2012. in previous years, the court of auditors has already criticised the tenders and procurement practices used in this area. i believe that budgetary sovereignty is one of the fundamental rights of any democratically legitimised representative body. the european parliament cannot be otherwise. the citizens' confidence in the european institutions depends to a large extent on the transparency and comprehensibility of their decisions. and unfortunately, we still find some of our procurement practices opaque. the second key problem is the position and the self-image of our parliament. i do not think it is appropriate for a discharge to be 'modernized' in such a way that it is made jointly with the council. it is reserved to parliament. i therefore maintain my demand that the finances and the control of their proper use be left to the democratically elected legislator alone. we owe this to the citizens, particularly in the context of the financial crisis which is still raging. i therefore voted against the discharge of the bureau of the body of european governmental bodies for electronic communications for the financial year 2012.
in writing. - the discharge for the office of the body of european government bodies for electronic communications for the financial year 2012 has already been criticised by the court of auditors in relation to the calls for tender and the award procedure and is, in my view, another sign of the european parliament's misguided budgetary policy. in times of financial crisis, in particular, parliament responds by being opaque, and underlines this not only by its opaque procurement practices but also by the fact that this relief is accompanied by the european council. i voted against this report because the finances and the control of the award and the application of the contracts are the sole responsibility of the democratically elected representatives of the people.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because studies show that accidents and accidents caused by human error could have been avoided if the crew had been rested. the agreement reached is the first step in the right direction, and more far-reaching national arrangements can be made.
in writing. - the motion for a resolution was on a european agreement concluded by the european inland navigation union (ebu), the european shipowners' organisation (eso) and the european transport workers' federation (etf) on the regulation of certain aspects of the organization of working time in inland navigation. although there is no provision for the commission to consult parliament on the matter under article 155 (2) tfeu, the commission has sent its proposal to parliament and asked it to submit its comments to the commission and the council. i am convinced that democratic participation and parliamentary sovereignty are the cornerstones on which the european union project is based, and i would encourage the commission to hold more frequent consultations of this kind. i have always been very concerned about the national states and the preservation of their sovereignty. in this context, i expressly welcome the fact that this document only provides for the institutionalisation of minimum standards, but leaves the rest to the member states. i am not only in favour of the proposal but also of its content: the frequent accidents on the major inland waterways caused by human error show the need to prevent fatigue of the crews. that is why i voted for the motion.
in writing. - the motion for a resolution on a european agreement between the european inland navigation union (ebu), the european shipowners' organisation (eso) and the european transport workers' federation (etf) on the regulation of certain aspects of the organisation of working time in inland waterway transport not only stresses the importance of minimum standards to avoid accidents or serious accidents on the major inland waterway routes, but leaves the remaining or detailed requirements to the member states. i have to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to make the proposal on the basis of the report by mr glinne, and i am also pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to make the proposal on the basis of the report by mr glinne.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it's a slap in the face for all the people who pay a lot of payroll taxes - and of course a lot of sales taxes - when they see that there are companies here that pay zero percent, one percent, two percent in taxes. that is deeply indecent and unfair! taxes corporate taxes are traditionally national sacred cows. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. you mentioned the consolidated corporate tax base, but of course there is much more to it: it is about more transparency and country-by-country reporting and blacklisting, but it is also about developing minimum tax rates. we owe this to the citizens of europe, and the time is right to do so. but please also take account of the consequences of company law, namely the question of seats! it should also be separated, namely where a company has its registered office, that should be ... (the president cut the speaker off)
i have to say, madam president, commissioner vestager told the econ committee yesterday that the commission is currently investigating four specific cases of tax-savings agreements between multinational companies, two in luxembourg, one in the netherlands and one in ireland. all these countries are known for their tax saving models - tax saving models that are legal and based on legal bases, tax saving models that are responsible for keeping corporate values, profits and dividends of corporations as high as possible, and tax saving models that ultimately benefit shareholders in particular. so if you, ladies and gentlemen, are a shareholder of google, amazon, apple, pepsi, deutsche bank or e.on, you too benefit from tax saving models. the oecd presented an action plan at the last g20 meeting to combat legal tax evasion by large corporations. this action plan is a catalogue of measures to develop effective, internationally agreed rules against profit-cutting and profit-shifting by the end of 2015 with the aim of closing tax loopholes and non-taxed asset shifts ... (the president withdrew the floor.)
i have to say, madam president, i wonder why some people are not ashamed of themselves when i think of mr juncker, for example, who has created a tax haven in his country, while the people of europe are being forced to accept liability for failure to pay, and to co-finance what your commission president, mr juncker, has done in his country. on the other hand, we are discussing seven billion euros, which the court of auditors has thankfully revealed, where 4% of the european union's allocated funds were not allocated legally, not properly. and i wonder who is taking responsibility where? are the people who are missing in the chamber of deputies responsible for these seven billion euros? or who else is willing to take responsibility for it? 120 million people - almost a quarter of the european union - are at risk of poverty. and it is not possible to deal with european union funds, the taxpayers' money, in this way. the conclusion is that we must return the funding to the national level, because no one but the countries themselves has the right knowledge of how to use the money and how to control it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the 2013 budget report confronts us with an error rate of 4.7%, a figure that would have been 6.3% without the financial corrections made. and although the probable error rate has fallen by 0.1% compared with the previous year, 6.3% of appropriations are still mainly mis-spent. the main weakness of the european development fund was again identified by the court as being the control systems analysed in the context of the regularity of operations. the shortcomings in ex ante controls are of concern as they are intended to prevent, detect or correct irregular payments in advance. i do not need to explain the current financial situation; we all know that it cannot continue in this way. it is time to set the tone and to use and strengthen the control mechanisms at our disposal. this is the 20th annual report of its kind and it is regrettable, if not alarming, that after 20 years of control, audit and assistance from the european court of auditors, the member states and the commission are still unable to spend the budget appropriations properly and without a significant error rate. we must take action here, because we are spending european taxpayers' money, and nothing hurts us more than the illegitimate use of these funds. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i have to say, madam president, every year, like christmas, the court of auditors' report is available. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the dedicated staff who provide us with a lot of good material. however, it is shocking to me - and i have been following these reports and the debate for five years - that the court's proposals are being consistently ignored. and they have very good proposals, for example, to check the practical value of the money invested and not just formal criteria. we should not deceive ourselves, because the reporting forms are not meaningful, the actual achievement of the objectives is not a priority. we are promoting things that are not in line with other commitments: environmental protection, animal welfare are mentioned here, cross-compliance issues. in this context, ladies and gentlemen, the union reminds me of a big, heavy oil tanker moving at full speed but unable to quickly correct its course. and what is even more shocking is that there is a captain on the bridge who does not want to change course either!
in writing. the turkish government announced on 3 october that it would carry out seismic surveys within the exclusive economic zone of the republic of cyprus. to this end, the research vessel 'barbaros' was sent to cypriot territorial waters accompanied by the turkish navy. in protest, cypriot president anastasiades has suspended his participation in the cyprus peace talks. offshore oil and gas exploration is of great economic and strategic importance to cyprus. the exploration of the aphrodite field and the construction of a billion-dollar lng terminal on the coast of vassilikos are top priority projects for the cypriot government. projects which can also contribute to increasing the security of energy supply in the european union in the medium term. turkey, on the other hand, has refused to allow any offshore exploration until the cyprus conflict is finally resolved and is now provoking cyprus by sending a research vessel. at the same time, turkey is also breaking international law. but not only that: turkey still occupies more than a third of the island of cyprus and is condemned by a un resolution. turkey is clearly in conflict with the values of the european community. this new provocation requires a clear european response, namely full solidarity with the republic of cyprus, a suspension of eu accession negotiations with turkey and a freeze of the 900 million euro of eu pre-accession aid. i therefore support the resolution tomorrow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. many had associated the independence of south sudan with the hope of a better future in peace, freedom and prosperity. the new state, as it was hoped, was not able to guarantee the struggle for power and resources by means of the rule of law. the result was civil war, lawlessness and a systematic violation of human rights. but it would be wrong to join the chorus of those who now feel that they too have foreseen this. right now, this country needs our attention, not our know-it-all and our righteousness. we need help for the hundreds of thousands of refugees. it is about finally establishing structures based on the rule of law and ensuring a high level of enforcement. but above all, it requires the understanding of the governments and their willingness to abandon the fatal path - then our help will also have a meaning. but above all, it must be linked to ensuring that humanitarian aid is channelled to those for whom it is intended and not to the parties to the conflict. we have a responsibility to ourselves, above all, by not allowing arms to be sent to south sudan.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would also like to join the many other speakers who wish you every success in your work as commissioner. the easi programme is a financial instrument of the european union to promote employment, social policy and labour mobility. so it's about social innovation. this is very important in this context, as we are talking here in this very late hour round about not mixing apples with pears. there have been some comments which have been more or less diverted in the wrong direction and which have repeatedly called into question the fact that workers are using more or less things which are not theirs. that's not the point. it is particularly important in the present situation, namely that we have a european labour market, to point out that people who emigrate and pay their taxes here also make a very valuable contribution to this european labour market.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. while some members speak very highly of this so-called association, i naturally miss the honesty of the whole debate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we're not talking about the fact that moldova has a gross domestic product, which puts it at 143rd place in the world ranking between benin and haiti. we're not talking about today that it has a per capita income, which puts it at 131st place between tonga and laos. we are not talking about the fact that some 20% of moldovan workers are now guest workers in russia and that there will be alienation from russia and that another 300,000 to 500,000 moldovans will have personal destinies that we will have to deal with and that will probably be pushed into the european labour market. we are not talking about the fact that there are already about 500 000 moldovans who have illegally obtained european passports or passports from romania through the back door and are already on the european labour market. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the middle east, but that we should be concerned about the situation in the middle east. and i beg you, please, that a colleague from poland here will accuse us of speaking with a voice of shame because we disagree. i am sorry, mr president, that you intervened, called for order and let me speak. thanks for letting me catch up on this. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community.
in writing. - i would have voted against the waiver of ms gomes' immunity, because i believe that the right to freedom of expression is one of the most important rights to be protected. a critical remark must not entail any legal consequences. criticism is an indispensable democratic tool and must be allowed to continue.
in writing. - the right to freedom of expression is one of the cornerstones of our democratic and free order. it must be protected within certain limits. criticism, as in this case, is an indispensable condition for our democratic coexistence. i therefore voted against the waiver of the immunity of ms gomes.
in writing. - i think that the fact that a member of the european parliament is deprived of his immunity in public or even in private is an exaggeration in the case of mrs gomes, based on a critical remark which i believe is based on the right to freedom of expression. i therefore voted against the waiver of her immunity.
in writing. - despite the fact that eligibility under the directive is not given, since less than 500 people were dismissed during the period under review, the application would have received my full approval. the already economically distressed region of 'south-east ireland' must not be further destabilised. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the aid is not used to create jobs.
in writing. - i agreed to the application, although the directive did not say that eligibility was a given. the south-east of ireland, which is already economically distressed, needs to be supported. in order to prevent further economic destabilisation of the region, it is also necessary to safeguard the jobs of andersen ireland.
in writing. - in times of economic crisis and uncertainty about employment, the eu must provide targeted support to regions particularly affected by the current developments in globalisation in the european area. the region of 'south-east ireland', although not eligible under the guidelines, must receive appropriate eu support and must not be further destabilised. the protection of jobs is a key issue, particularly at andersen ireland. i have voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on these grounds.
in writing. - the fact that the most affected region, attica, is the largest economic centre, makes it imperative to protect it and not to put the greek economy at risk. the eligibility is more than given and so i would have given my full approval to this proposal.
in writing. - the fact that the most affected region, attica, is the largest economic centre in greece makes it necessary to protect it. moreover, the greek economy is still in a delicate phase of restructuring, during which any further destabilisation should be avoided. since the eligibility is formally established, i have approved this application.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of employment, the commission has decided to extend the community support to the regions most affected by the current globalisation in europe. the region covered by this report, attica, is the largest economic location in the region and therefore needs to be adequately protected by the european globalisation adjustment fund. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - the rapid conclusion of the eu-republic of moldova association agreement is another provocation to moscow in the light of the current tensions between the eu and russia. the republic of moldova, given its history and geographical location, is clearly within the sphere of russian interests and influence, and a tripartite approach should have been sought in view of the conclusion of this important agreement. the eu is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners, including those who have been held in custody, and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. the republic of moldova would probably be better placed in the eurasian union than in the eu, due to its economic constitution and orientation. the further sanctions against russia could also put a massive strain on the european labour market if moldovan migrant workers enter it. i am clearly in favour of good relations between the eu and the republic of moldova. i think that the present association agreement is the wrong approach for the reasons i have mentioned, and that is why it should have been rejected.
in writing. - as i also stressed in my speech, the association of the republic of moldova is the next adventure with an uncertain outcome for the eu. the european union has already taken a very serious step towards the creation of a european security area. it is also another provocation to russia. that is why i voted against the motion.
in writing. - the conclusion, in my view, of the association agreement between the eu and the republic of moldova, which was rushed, is yet another proof that the eu's current foreign policy is on a course of confrontation with the russian federation, as moldova is clearly in the sphere of russian interests. instead of seeking an agreement between the eu, moldova and the russian federation in the sense of an association agreement, one-sided and short-sighted diplomatic miscalculations are used to lure a country into an agreement to serve the interests of nato, among others. the eu is, so to speak, the harbinger of what will eventually flourish in the country, namely its involvement in the current diplomatic dispute with the russian federation. although i value relations with moldova and consider that country to be part of the european family of nations, i voted against this association agreement because, on the one hand, it is only a means to the end of a misguided anti-russian foreign policy and, on the other hand, the current sanctions against russia will make it easier for moldovan migrant workers to enter the european labour market, which is already overstretched.
in the light of the tensions between the european union and russia, it is neither advisable nor wise to conclude an association agreement with the republic of moldova. firstly, the country is divided into a pro-european moldova and a pro-russian transnistria, so it is questionable whether such an agreement would add value to the whole of moldova. secondly, russia, with its hegemony in transnistria, has its own territorial interests, so that such an agreement risks being seen as just another provocation against moscow. in view of this situation, a tripartite agreement is clearly preferable to the outcome of bilateral negotiations, especially in view of the outcome achieved with this strategy in ukraine. in the light of the possible costs and benefits, it is more in the interest of the union and moldova to rebuild good relations with russia, so that companies already affected by sanctions and moldova, which is in a state of uncertainty because of transnistria, are not exposed to further uncertainties. good relations between the eu and moldova at all levels are a priority for me, but i do not think it would make sense to conclude an association agreement as it is here for the reasons mentioned above, because this would certainly be perceived as a provocation by russia and the agreement would therefore have the potential to do more harm than good.
in writing. - the rapid conclusion of the eu-republic of moldova association agreement is another provocation to moscow in the light of the current tensions between the eu and russia. the republic of moldova, given its history and geographical location, is clearly within the sphere of russian interests and influence, and a tripartite approach should have been sought in view of the conclusion of this important agreement. the eu is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners, including those who have been held in custody, and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. the republic of moldova would probably be better placed in the eurasian union than in the eu, due to its economic constitution and orientation. the further sanctions against russia could also put a massive strain on the european labour market if moldovan migrant workers enter it. i am clearly in favour of good relations between the eu and the republic of moldova. i think that the present association agreement is the wrong approach for the reasons i have mentioned, and that is why it should have been rejected.
in writing. - the conclusion, in my view, of the association agreement between the eu and the republic of moldova, which was rushed, is yet another proof that the eu's current foreign policy is on a course of confrontation with the russian federation, as moldova is clearly in the sphere of russian interests. instead of seeking an agreement between the eu, moldova and the russian federation in the sense of an association agreement, one-sided and short-sighted diplomatic miscalculations are used to lure a country into an agreement to serve the interests of nato, among others. the eu is, so to speak, the harbinger of what will eventually flourish in the country, namely its involvement in the current diplomatic dispute with the russian federation. although i value relations with moldova and consider that country to be part of the european family of nations, i voted against this association agreement because, on the one hand, it is only a means to the end of a misguided anti-russian foreign policy and, on the other hand, the current sanctions against russia will make it easier for moldovan migrant workers to enter the european labour market, which is already overstretched.
in writing. - as peace in northern ireland is still fragile and full implementation of the peace agreement is fraught with difficulties, support for and call for a lasting solution to the conflict and full implementation of the carbon free agreement by the eu parliament through the present resolution is an important and indispensable signal to the parties to the conflict. it is in the interest not only of ireland but of the whole european union and of each member state that the parties involved come back to the negotiating table to agree on the outstanding issues and thus lay the foundations for the functioning and stability of the democratic institutions of northern ireland. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. i hope that the resolution, with all the approaches and proposals it contains, will move the parties to the conflict in northern ireland to reach a stable and reasonable compromise in the context of the all-party talks, which will be followed by a successful and lasting solution to the conflict. i have agreed to this in the spirit of the constructive approaches and proposals contained in the motion.
in writing. - in view of the current difficulties in implementing the peace process in northern ireland, i believe it is important that the european parliament, by means of the resolution before us, sends a clear signal of support and calls for a lasting settlement of the conflict and full implementation of the good friday agreement and all future agreements. any effort to bring all parties involved to the table to reach agreement on outstanding issues and ultimately to lay the foundations for the functioning and stability of the democratic institutions of northern ireland is to be welcomed. i therefore believe that it is right and appropriate to support the process of reconciliation through the european regional development fund, in particular through the peace programme. it is hoped that the first minister of northern ireland and his deputy will soon be able to follow up the invitation of the european parliament after the successful conclusion of the all-party talks and report to the plenary on their successful work. i would have agreed to this in view of the constructive approaches and proposals contained in the motion.
the european parliament has been a very active participant in the peace process in northern ireland. the aim of this resolution is to bring all the parties concerned to the table in order to reach agreement on outstanding issues. but the financial basis must also be secure: i think it is appropriate to support this process of rapprochement through the peace programme. that is why i voted for the motion.
the peace process in northern ireland must be resolved peacefully by all possible diplomatic means. to ensure this, it is all the more important that the eu also sends a clear signal of support for this project. the resolution presented here supports this peace process by not only stressing the implementation of peace-promoting agreements such as the good friday agreement, but also by providing financial support to the region through the european regional development fund. i think that these measures are more than appropriate and i fully support further constructive talks in the form of a final peaceful solution, so i voted in favour of this motion.
in writing. - turkey's aggressive behaviour towards cyprus is unworthy of a candidate country for eu accession and simply unacceptable to the eu, which is why i am clearly in favour of the joint motion for a resolution 'turkey's actions causing tensions in the exclusive economic zone of the republic of cyprus'. turkey is not only violating the sovereign rights of the republic of cyprus, but is also jeopardising the exploration of the aphrodite field and the construction of a multibillion-dollar lng terminal on the vassilikos coast - both of which are top priorities for the cypriot government and can help increase the energy security of the european union. although turkey rejects these activities, as long as the cyprus conflict persists, it has no right to break international law and invade the cypriot eez. it is beyond question that such behaviour is totally unacceptable and detrimental to the process of cypriot unification. the european union must show full solidarity with the republic of cyprus, suspend accession negotiations with turkey and stop eu resettlement aid. i therefore support the motion for a resolution and expect a clear european response to the turkish provocations against cyprus and thus also the eu.
in writing. - i would have clearly voted in favour of the present joint motion for a resolution on turkey's measures causing tension in the exclusive economic zone of the republic of cyprus, as turkey's actions are simply unacceptable, especially for a candidate for eu membership. there is no legal entitlement for turkey to carry out seismic measurements in a large area in the south of the exclusive economic zone (eez) of the republic of cyprus between 20 october and 30 december 2014. the eu is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. the turkish seabed exploration is illegal and a clear provocation against cyprus and thus the eu. it is high time that the eu no longer allowed turkey to do this and that it immediately stopped the accession negotiations. today's resolution is an important first step in that direction and would therefore have had my full support.
in the light of the recent events in cyprus, the commission has decided to propose a new regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. the continuing territorial violations by turkey and the non-recognition of eu member cyprus should prompt the eu to immediately suspend accession negotiations. the resolution in particular shows that turkey has clearly broken the diplomatic framework and that the eu is fully aware of its interests. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - although the achievement of a lasting peaceful situation and the overcoming of the current political instability in south sudan requires increased commitment by the international community, i would have abstained from this vote. the reason for this is that all the subsidies granted so far have not led to any institutional reforms and no tangible improvement in the humanitarian situation in south sudan. the european union's available financial resources should therefore, in my view, be used for projects where the european community's mediation efforts and talks have a better chance of success than for a country without a comprehensible governance. i am in favour of suspending aid until the revenues of south sudan are invested in sustainable development and improvement of living conditions.
in writing. in view of the poor human rights situation, the famine and the many victims of the civil war in south sudan, i do not agree with this motion. while there is an urgent need for increased international engagement to achieve a lasting peaceful situation and overcome political instability in the country - an approach which i fully support - experience has shown that payments to south sudan do not move the government to institutionalize reforms or actively improve the humanitarian situation, but rather to cement the status quo of violent conflict between the government and the opposition. apart from bad governance, despite aid payments, the country's development concept has not changed: petrodollars are not flowing into sustainable development to improve the general living conditions, the population is still cut off from the wealth of these revenues, and the unilateral reliance on the country's oil sources is far from sustainable. instead of continuing to co-finance this conflict and this ineffective development model, the european union should spend aid on projects that contribute to a lasting improvement in the living conditions of the populations concerned.
in writing. i believe that this proposal is a step in the right direction in order to achieve a lasting peace and to overcome the political instability in south sudan. the international community must show greater responsibility in this region and cannot stand by and watch the continuing violations of human rights. i think it is right to clearly brand the atrocities committed as such and to help south sudan on its way to a peaceful future. that is why i voted for the motion.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the basis of the proposals contained in the report. while there is no denying the need for increased international engagement, the situation is difficult, as far-reaching reforms do not appear to be taking place and the humanitarian situation in the country is not being improved by eu projects and subsidies. since the eu should focus on the current european challenges that are happening right on its doorstep and since south sudan should first promote sustainable development with concrete structures, i have decided against further support measures.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i would like to ask mr wenta what possibilities there are for small and mediumsized enterprises to protect and support cooperation between small and mediumsized enterprises in particular. both would be important in development policy, because of course it is precisely through family businesses, through selfemployed people, that new incentives must be created.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, a word on the rules of procedure. i think it is quite unnecessary - and i think the rules of procedure also think it is quite unnecessary - for questions to be asked within a group, just before the efdd or the ppe. i think they have enough time to ask each other these questions in their own group meetings. i would like to make a few comments on the report. it reads very well, these are all noble goals that we read here: justice, equality, fairness. i can fully endorse what is written there, ladies and gentlemen. but it is also time to put those words into action. i doubt that, if you know the practice in this house. i am particularly struck by the figures and data which this report gives on the oppression of women. there are mass rapes, there are genital mutilations, there are ritual murders. these are all things that should not exist in the 21st century - and certainly not in europe! you and i both know that. these are also things that we have partly imported ourselves with mass immigration. i ask myself why the women's committee is discussing important issues such as the internal market instead of the really important issues such as the abuse of women and equality?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would like to join all the previous speakers who have stressed the importance of this subject, not only for the european parliament and the commission, but above all for the citizens of europe. as has been said, cohesion policy is one of the eu's most important investment instruments, and i do not think i need to explain its importance in this house, especially in the context of the crisis. we must finally invest out of the crisis rather than saving further into the crisis. i would also like to stress the importance of cohesion policy, particularly in achieving the very important europe 2020 objectives that we have all set ourselves: from poverty reduction to active labour market policies, from education to a fairer distribution. it is precisely here that europe must not hesitate any longer! it is a very alarming situation that so many operational programmes are still not decided. this cannot be explained to the citizens of europe, not to mention the unsustainable state of unpaid bills, which have reached a truly scandalous level, and the fact that the investment plan, which has been discussed so much in the media, is still an empty shell. i hope that will change in the course of the week when it is presented here. we have to do something and we have to act. and i would like to join all the calls here, not only to the commission, but also to the member states, to the regional level, to everyone here, to work together to ensure that the operational programmes are finalised as quickly as possible, that the 2014 funds are released for citizens, but also that the impact of unpaid bills on, for example, erasmus students, horizon 2020 scientists and other stakeholders is finally clearly expressed.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. i would like to emphasize again what many of my predecessors have already said: we need a budget. this is certainly nothing new, but we are heading towards a worrying situation, especially in relation to cohesion policy 2014-2020. even in the best case scenario, the investments to be supported by cohesion policy will start at the earliest on 1 may 2015. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would now like to know how the commission will manage the 2014 liabilities if there is indeed a reallocation of the structural funds which were not used by 31 december 2014? how can we ensure that the funding of operational programmes starts as soon as possible, without compromising their quality? we must give the member states the opportunity to use the funds at their disposal, especially those for cohesion policy.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already done so. sometimes politics is tedious. if you go into such detail, it's even more difficult. i remember very well: when i started to deal with dual-use items, i was one of the first people in this house, if not the first, to have to explain what it was. few people know what dual-use items are, if you can call it that. the media didn't cover it, it was uninteresting. and things that are uninteresting always provide opportunities for profit-seeking groups to do relatively unrecognized things. when you pick up on that, it's harder. but i also remember saying: 'well, these dual-use items are weapons, they are as dangerous as weapons, they are something to be careful of', and mr de gucht looked at me with a wide-eyed look and said: 'well, he doesn't know that, but that's something else entirely.' i am therefore glad, madam commissioner, that i have listened to you very carefully now, and that you think these are things that need to be tackled because there are some problems. the first problem is that there is no level playing field in exports in europe at the moment. i will speak english because i can see the earl of dartmouth over there, partly hidden behind his nice flag. we have nations that have quite strict rules on exports and other nations which do not have those rules. i think that the united kingdom, for example, is a nation where they have quite strict rules and they care about those rules. there are other nations in europe where that is not the case. so it is a disadvantage for the united kingdom if we do not have european rules. i don't know, maybe the earl of dartmouth would agree with that. this is a situation that is bad. that's why it needs to be changed. we need uniform european rules. of course, one must also be careful about what falls under these rules. we have always had the principle that there is a list and everything that is not on the list can be exported. is that the right approach? i don't know, man. we may need a catch-all approach in the future. the second is that you have also raised the question ex ante and ex post. yes, ex-ante costs more, but ex-post may cost lives. you have to weigh that. and perhaps we should weigh human life more than the cost to business. the third is the big area of software. we are slowly succeeding as european legislators in bringing the field of software into these dual-use items, also in connection with human rights violations. this is extremely important. most of the leopard ii tanks exported to the middle east have not yet cost a single life. european software technology has already cost many lives. we must be aware of this.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in your remarks today you have stressed the importance of good impact assessments for growth and employment in europe and you have also stressed that smes are the driving forces behind this growth and employment in europe. i fully agree with you that europe is characterized by small and mediumsized enterprises. there are over 22 000 small and mediumsized enterprises, which is exactly 99.8% of all enterprises in europe, and over 90 million workers are employed in these enterprises. in other words, more than two thirds of all private sector employees are employed in small and mediumsized enterprises. this will require legislation and impact assessment to focus more on smes. i would support mr pieper's proposal to include the mandatory sme tests back in the impact assessment, how to apply the 'think small first' principle in general to all legislative proposals, with the aim of creating a business-friendly regulatory environment.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this resolution, which is a kind of pre-emptive reaction to the epsco council in november, very clearly defines the position of the majority of the employment committee in the european parliament. it demonstrates dissatisfaction with the status quo and reaffirms our call for more effective action to tackle the alarming levels of unemployment, youth unemployment and the risk of poverty in the eu. it is obvious that too little is still being done. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to draw attention to a number of areas: vocational training to ensure employability, the youth guarantee, the training of older workers, the creation of efficient labour market administrations and the necessary structures for small and mediumsized enterprises. it is time for benchmarking to become a binding policy principle within the union. it doesn't always have to be reinvented. the commission is also proposing to make successful examples from other countries a political premise for member states.
i have to say, madam president, i come from a local political background and i want to tell you how tremendously i have seen the europe 2020 goals as progress, especially in my daily work, compared to the previous lisbon strategy. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union. the importance of these issues cannot be overstated, and i think this brings us a considerable step closer to economic and social cohesion in europe and is an important contribution to a more social europe. i believe that the citizens need this social europe. we need a social union, especially as a counterweight to economic and monetary union. the citizens in particular must no longer see europe as a vehicle for austerity policies or the enforcement of neoliberal interests, but must also see europe as a guarantor of social rights and their personal social rights. however, the reality, as we have heard, is different. there is record unemployment, jobs that guarantee a living are becoming a luxury, women are often forced into involuntary parttime work, and in many member states young people are already being described as a lost generation. this is an alarming situation. i am not surprised that we are sitting here today and talking about the fact that we have not achieved the europe 2020 goals. we have a fundamental design flaw in the whole thing. if you think that austerity can fight poverty or create jobs, you are mistaken and you will fail. we need a holistic approach to reform, a change of course away from austerity policies, a reform of the stability and growth pact and a rethinking of our current policy of combating the crisis, which has not actually combated the crisis but has exacerbated it, especially for the most vulnerable. i think that this resolution that we are adopting together today is a very important step because it brings a holistic, a broad approach to how to fight poverty, how to create sustainable growth and green jobs. the reform of economic and monetary union is also being discussed, as is the importance of public services and the need to include civil society in social europe. i think this is a very broad and important resolution with the aim of inclusive and inclusive growth. the social europe must not continue to be an empty promise to the citizens of europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. they know it: member states are moving away from the eu 2020 targets rather than towards them. the inequality in the distribution is enormous. we have 25 million unemployed, one in four at risk of poverty and social exclusion. this is of course a consequence of the crisis, but above all it is also a consequence of the wrong policy, the policy of capital spending. i therefore find it incomprehensible that the european semester does not pay much more attention to and work towards the eu 2020 objectives. the crucial point is that employment and social aspects must be treated as binding and on a par with economic criteria. the commission is now called upon to do so, and of course the commission's colleagues are also called upon to do so. there is a lot of work for you to do, including the investment plan we expect from the commission president... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. since the convention on international interference rights in respect of mobile equipment for rail transport would confer further competences on the union to the national regulatory authorities, it should be rejected. the national financial supervisory bodies are more familiar with the situation in their counterpart's country than a single european organisation could be.
in writing. there were two main reasons for my vote in this particular case: on the one hand, the convention on international safety of railway rolling stock is intended to transfer further powers from the national safety authorities to the union, which i strongly oppose. on the other hand, the national supervisory bodies are also much closer to the subject and much more familiar with the circumstances than a single european organization could be. that is why i voted against the agreement.
in writing. this agreement would transfer further powers to the union from the national supervisory authorities and should be rejected not only for this reason but also because, above all, the national supervisory authorities in the financial sector are better placed to assess the situation in their own country than any higher or single european organisation. that is why i did not agree to the agreement.
in writing. the proposal for a council decision approving the hague convention on jurisdictional arrangements has my support. rapid ratification will lead to greater legal certainty in international exclusive jurisdiction agreements and thus promote trade between the participating states. the european union's economy will thus see a recovery.
in writing. the proposal for a council decision on the approval of the hague convention on jurisdictional arrangements has the potential to contribute effectively to greater legal certainty. in particular, i link the proposal to the well-founded hope of promoting trade between the participating states. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. in my view, a swift ratification of the council decision approving the hague convention would ensure greater legal certainty in international exclusive jurisdiction agreements and, inter alia, promote trade between the participating states, so i have agreed to the request.
in writing. the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for stx finland oy is to be supported as the company concerned fulfils all the criteria for support. it is also very commendable that the finnish government has already started to provide assistance to the affected workers before applying for eu support. this will ensure that the resources provided by the union are used wisely and that they are used exclusively for the benefit of workers.
in writing. i am of the opinion that the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund should be supported for stx finland oy as the company concerned fulfils all the criteria for support. it is also very commendable that the finnish government has already started to provide assistance to the affected workers before applying for eu support. this will ensure that the resources provided by the union are used wisely and that they are used exclusively for the benefit of workers. i therefore voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. i support the application for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for stx finland oy, as the company concerned has met all the criteria. it should also be stressed that the finnish government has already initiated assistance measures before applying for eu funding. i was convinced that the funds were being used wisely, since the member state itself was also making a contribution, and i agreed without hesitation.
in writing. the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for stx finland oy is to be supported as the company concerned fulfils all the criteria for support. it is also very commendable that the finnish government has already started to provide assistance to the affected workers before applying for eu support. this will ensure that the resources provided by the union are used wisely and that they are used exclusively for the benefit of workers.
in writing. the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the company gad in france is to be supported as the company concerned fulfils all the criteria for support. particular attention should be paid to the fact that almost one fifth of those dismissed so far are aged between 55 and 64. those affected are particularly at risk of slipping into longterm unemployment. this is to be prevented by the assistance offered by the french government. that is why i voted for the use of the fund.
in writing. i support the application for the european globalisation adjustment fund for the company gad société anonyme simplifiée in france, as the company concerned meets all the criteria. it should also be noted that some 17% of those made redundant are at risk of becoming longterm unemployed, as they are already over 55 years old. that's why i agreed to the request.
in writing. i am against extensive, especially unfounded and unjustified data retention. i therefore welcome the present motion for a resolution, which seeks to have the european court of justice examine the legality of this retention of passenger data.
in writing. the present report is about whether or not the european court of justice should review the transfer of passenger data to canada. passenger data is stored for up to five years. in total, up to 60 pieces of information (e.g. food preferences, credit card details) are stored per person. i welcome this report and am against the widespread collection of data without justification and call for legal certainty for eu citizens. it is quite sensible to put the retention of travel data on the legal test.
in writing. data protection is, in my view, one of the most important assets to be safeguarded and protected. the report calling for the european court of justice to review the transfer of passenger data to canada has my full support. the retention of data must, in my view, be subject to a legal review, which is being ensured here by the european court of justice. i also oppose the widespread collection of data without any justification, because it puts the legal security of citizens in the eu at the greatest risk.
in writing. although the mdgs have achieved a great deal, i voted against this proposal. new development pathways for sustainable and inclusive development in the post-2015 period are necessary but not sufficiently considered in the prevailing conditions. better monitoring of the implementation of the future objectives is essential to ensure their success. the introduction of measurable benchmarks would be the first step towards better monitoring of the mdgs.
in writing. i am firmly convinced that new development paths are necessary for a sustainable development policy beyond 2015 i nevertheless consider the concrete measures proposed to be too little thought out. better monitoring of the implementation of the future objectives is essential to ensure their success in the long term. the introduction of objective and verifiable standards would be a first step in this direction. that is why i voted against this motion.
in writing. while new development pathways are needed for sustainable and inclusive development in the post-2015 period, i believe that the approaches in this proposal have not been sufficiently implemented or sufficiently considered. the mdgs have certainly achieved some successes, but better monitoring and the introduction of measurable benchmarks to better control the mdgs should make this achievement feasible. i therefore voted against this motion.
in writing. the present europe 2020 programme sets out key objectives (employment of 75% of all 20-64 year olds; the eu's research and development budget is the largest in the world. i have not, however, spoken for or against the resolution, because this programme, despite its advantages, severely limits the economic autonomy of sovereign member states. the solution to stagnant growth and low employment must be at the root, not imposed from above.
in writing. the europe 2020 programme contains very important objectives, such as the employment of 75% of all citizens aged 20-64. investing at least 3% of gdp generated in the eu in research and development is also a step in the right direction. however, the europe 2020 programme limits member states' political autonomy too much. it would be another step towards a central state controlled from brussels. growth and economic prosperity cannot be simply decreed. that is why i abstained.
in writing. the europe 2020 programme is to be measured by two measures. on the one hand, it contains very important and noble objectives, particularly in relation to employment policy, and it also aims to ensure that 3% of the gdp generated in the eu is invested in research and development. on the other hand, it increasingly restricts the economic autonomy of the member states and is basically dictated by the top. that is why i abstained.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have heard many important words today, and i would like to begin with the word consensus. there was consensus on programming, there was consensus on project endorsement. the council has apparently forgotten that this consensus also entails costs. the applicants, whether they were municipalities, erasmus students, social institutions or simply europeans, trusted that this consensus would lead to projects, programmes and payments. they can assume that the european union is reliable if they are prepared to participate actively in cohesion policy and integration policy. the credibility of the european union is at stake today if the council continues to refuse to act. i hope that you, commissioner, together with the council and parliament, will show common sense and foresight so that we can continue to be credible and reliable in the future.
i have to say, madam president, the other side will be shocked by this. the equality of men and women is unnatural. now i have your attention. but that is not from me, that is from turkish president erdoğan, who said that in the past few days. i commend this debate that we are able to have here today, because it is an important subject. violence against women is a serious issue that we should definitely address. unfortunately, in the 21st century, there are still tragic cases of violence and oppression against women. this is not only the case in countries such as turkey, where 34% of women have been victims of violence. this is true in sweden, which according to un statistics ranks third behind botswana and lesotho in registered rapes. but this is also the case in belgium, france and the united kingdom. i am reminded of the rotherham case, where thousands of girls were tortured for decades. what is the reason for this increase, ladies and gentlemen? you know very well, and i think it is necessary to take off the politically correct glasses in these matters. we know that with the unbridled immigration we have brought in men who have a completely different view of women than we do.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to use the framework of this debate to talk not only about the istanbul convention but also about the european protection order which you mentioned at the beginning, commissioner. although victim protection measures exist in all eu countries, they have only been enforced in the eu country where they were created. the principle of mutual recognition now protects women, for example, from stalking men when they travel from one country to another and stay there for longer periods. i therefore take this opportunity to ask the member states to implement by 11 january 2015 what we have decided on the european protection order, because that is what europe is so often sick of. wonderful things are decided, but they are not implemented. and that, of course, also applies to the istanbul convention. it is a shame that they are not implemented quickly.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the needs of the people of europe. and as positive as mare nostrum measures like triton are for rescuing people in distress at sea: they are, after all, just a reaction to the rush of millions. we must define a common european objective, bring stability and democracy to politically uncertain areas, but also put an end to the unrestrained exploitation of resources in developing countries. it is therefore necessary to address the causes, as pope francis rightly said. we must create good conditions in the countries of origin of the emigrants so that they do not want to leave their countries of origin in the first place. we will not succeed, despite the views of some dreamers in this house, in bringing all of africa, the middle east and perhaps even central asia to europe. it is also good that there are members in this house who say this clearly and clearly, because the citizens will appreciate this more and more.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have very often serious health problems resulting from the working environment and from occupational health problems, which are associated with high costs for medical treatment, with corresponding absences and with loss of income for workers and employers. i can see from your words, commissioner, that you have clearly recognised that. i know this because you would not have been able to define it otherwise, and i am pleased to note that the overall approach seems to have been taken into account here. but we know that even clearer objectives and more binding deadlines are something that is missing from this strategic framework. i believe that areas such as health risk monitoring and the definition of occupational accidents and diseases are also necessary. i think that the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area, and i would like to see the commissioner present a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
in writing. safe and healthy working conditions are a fundamental right, clearly enshrined in the eu charter of fundamental rights. the european union therefore has a responsibility to ensure that this fundamental right is respected. but that is precisely what the european commission has not done. on the contrary, not only is responsibility being shifted, but measures such as the eu social partnership agreement for hairdressers will be actively blocked. the strategy now presented by the european commission is very disappointing and hardly deserves the name strategy. the commitment, the necessary objectives and, above all, the concrete measures to implement these objectives are lacking. i call on the commission to make a fundamental improvement in its strategy. because people who work on freezers, shelves, and packaging need good, healthy jobs. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive. the changes in legislation and the facilitation of smes called for by the refit programme are damaging to workers and create an unjustified division of labour into those who deserve health protection and those who are denied it because the company is not large enough.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i got three points. first of all, i agree to the stress test. the stress test and new european banking supervision go together. one is the prerequisite for the other. the second is, of course, that we need to learn from our experiences and figure out what we can do better and what complementary assumptions we can make in the next stress test. and third, the stress test is not complete. the credibility of the stress test depends on the procedure and the independence with which we now deal with those banks that have failed and with those banks that do not yet fully meet the basel conditions and the assumptions of the stress test.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we say yes to the banking union. we are therefore pleased that both reports provide two additional instruments for the ecb, namely statistics on the one hand and the sanctions mechanism on the other, in order to be able to operate efficiently in the banking union. the statistics are still not proportionate. it has not yet been sufficiently implemented. we are clearly saying yes to the sanctions mechanism, because a regulation without sanctions is like a fish without meat and a tooth without teeth. but we don't want to double-punish. we therefore want to separate the imposition of sanctions from the publication of the information. publication should be subject to the completion of the legal remedies, otherwise it would not only lead to double punishment but also to a strong influence of market mechanisms, which may also have an impact on those banks and the financial market in general that are not directly affected by the sanction mechanism. the designs are balanced and an important further building block to make our economic and financial system more secure and sustainable.
in writing. the european union wants to invest over €300 billion in infrastructure, research and development to make the european economy more competitive. in principle, this project, investineurope, is a good idea, if it were not for the question of where the capital should come from! the commission has also proposed that the eib should provide a loan of eur 16 billion to investineurope through the contribution mechanism and a further eur 5 billion through the european investment bank. that's where the magic starts. the commission expects these €21 billion of public money to attract private investors, whose money will in turn lead to €315 billion of investment in the real economy. juncker is promising a 'financial lever' which will make €21 billion capital, €315 billion in investments. the magic of this miraculous money creation is that it takes the risk away from the companies that invest! the eu thus becomes a venture capitalist, because by reducing the risks involved in investments, companies are encouraging the gambler's mentality that led to the financial crisis. this juncker plan is an example of a scandalous debt policy at the expense of the citizens: the profits from projects are privatised the investors reap the profits. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the projects. this is not serious and it is not fair to the european taxpayers!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we europeans have a part to play in the fight against global climate change. but our approach must also be globally coordinated. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a fair and equitable way. according to a study by johannes kepler university in linz, austria, reducing co2 emissions by a further 40% by 2030 will threaten some 61 000 jobs in austria alone. the industry has already made its contribution to the fight against climate change through emissions trading in many european member states. but what about the rest of the industrialized nations outside the eu? the us has more or less moved away from the kyoto protocol, turkey has increased its emissions by 115% in the last 20 years. it is nice to hear announcements from china and the united states, but it is measured by the facts, by the actual actions, and i am very skeptical. we must therefore increase the pressure on our economic partners. we should stop depriving our domestic industry of its competitiveness by constantly introducing new requirements.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to join those who have spoken before me in calling attention once again to the urgent need for the european union to secure and defend its leading role in international climate action at the climate talks. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training. we have managed to reduce european emissions by 19% as agreed under the kyoto protocol, but we have still increased gross domestic product by over 45%. our greenhouse gas intensity has been cut by almost half, and our per capita emissions have been cut by 25%. so we can really take on the challenge of keeping global warming below 2 degrees, if we all do our part. now that the signs are really confirming that china and the usa are finally abandoning their blockade, we also see that our path in the past years has been the right one. our commitment to reducing co2, promoting renewable energy and increasing energy efficiency has borne fruit. lima is now the last stop on the way to paris and the last chance to convince others that it is not too late. let us ensure that copenhagen is not repeated in paris and that a joint international agreement on climate protection really becomes a reality.
in writing. the catastrophic results of climate change extreme weather, rising sea levels and the growing number of environmental refugees are no longer in doubt. this underlines the need for an ambitious and sustainable strategy to combat global warming. the climate conference in december is designed to enable the 194 member states of the unfccc to adopt an international binding agreement to combat climate change in paris next year. the european union must take the lead in climate action with a united voice. the change in direction announced by the us and china shows that the aim is to increase cooperation with both developed and emerging and developing countries. it is therefore essential that eu member states present ambitious national strategies that reflect their willingness and will to stop climate change. only by a coordinated approach can we bring global warming under control. the 20th united nations climate conference in lima will be the first step towards the 21st united nations climate conference in paris in 2015, which will be the first step towards the 21st united nations climate conference in paris in 2015. this will create the necessary basis for an ambitious agreement to combat climate change.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
that concludes the vote.
in writing. - the commission's present proposal provides that the ecb may use confidential statistical information in the context of its new supervisory function, similar to the way national central banks do in their supervisory activities. this is intended to simplify reporting and to avoid additional administrative burden in the collection of data. the purpose of this regulation is to enable the exchange of confidential statistical information collected in the course of the surveillance activities within the european central bank system. the amendment of regulation (ec) no 2533/98 by reference to the new supervisory tasks of the ecb, set out in regulation (eu) no 1024/2013, for the enhanced supervision of banks and credit institutions, is necessary, in particular when following the course of the financial crisis. i therefore support the commission's proposal.
in writing. the skills of the ever-growing european financial market need to be improved to allow for comprehensive control. the single supervisory mechanism (ssm) has strengthened the powers of the european central bank. however, i think it is very drastic that a national administrative authority should not have the right to impose sanctions on a bank which is under the direct supervision of the ecb. in addition, the ecb may invoice banks for its supervisory activities. this approach is, in my view, difficult to criticise, since the ecb can enrich itself by being able to impose its supervision on banks. i cannot approve of this approach, which is why i abstained.
in writing. the supplementary report the collection of statistical data by the european central bank and its objectives have been approved. in future, the information should no longer be received from the respective national central banks but should be sent directly to the ecb. the reporting burden on companies should be kept to a minimum and data should be collected only once. the information is then made available to all relevant eu and member state authorities for the purposes of supervision of, for example, financial institutions.
in writing. the report on the collection of statistical data by the european central bank has a lot of potential for me, as the information will flow directly to the ecb in the future and not be distributed to the respective national banks. it is important, above all, that the reporting burden is significantly reduced for companies and that the information is available to the competent authorities. i therefore voted in favour of this supplementary report.
in writing. - the commission proposal provides for the ecb to impose sanctions for breaches of eu law and for non-compliance with ecb regulations. exceptions are cases where a sanction would destabilise financial markets. the publication of this report could be delayed by three years. the draft also provides for a better division of powers between the ecb and the national institutions. better regulation and supervision of the european financial sector with clear rules for all players, products and markets should be pursued. i therefore welcome the approach of a single, coherently applied framework of rules for the financial sector, which provides for enhanced supervision at european level and whose complementarity leads to better coordination of national supervisory bodies. i reject the commission's proposal.
in writing. the skills of the ever-growing european financial market need to be improved to allow for comprehensive control. the single supervisory mechanism (ssm) has strengthened the powers of the european central bank. however, i think it is very drastic that a national administrative authority should not have the right to impose sanctions on a bank which is under the direct supervision of the ecb. in addition, the ecb may invoice banks for its supervisory activities. i think that this approach is to be criticised most severely, since the ecb can enrich itself by being able to impose its supervision on banks. i cannot approve of this approach, which is why i abstained.
in writing. of course, it is very important that the ever-growing european financial market is better controlled and monitored. the single supervisory mechanism (ssm) was introduced in 2013 to extend the powers of the european central bank in this area. in this report, the ecb considers it necessary to increase the sanctions available to banks in order to preserve their credibility. this is a clear allocation of powers to the ecb in the area of sanctions. this may seem sensible, but the risk is that the extension of the ecb's powers will deter investors and drive credit institutions out of the euro area. i therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. the possibility of the ecb being given the power to impose sanctions on banks may certainly be another step towards improving or extending the european financial market after the single supervisory mechanism (ssm). however, i see this extension of the ecb's powers as a danger to national powers and as a deterrent to investors. that is why i abstained.
in writing. while the objectives are laudable, implementation is unrealistic. the implementation of the proposed measures would cause massive damage to industry in europe, while other countries continue to fail to pursue even their own less ambitious co2 targets and thus become more competitive internationally. i abstained from the vote.
in writing. we europeans have a part to play in the fight against global climate change. but our approach must also be globally coordinated. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a fair and equitable way. according to a study by johannes kepler university in linz, the reduction of co2 emissions by a further 40% by 2030 threatens some 61 000 jobs in austria alone. the industry has already made its contribution to the fight against climate change through emissions trading in many european member states. the report includes good approaches to binding climate regulation, but overall the eu's targets are unrealistic and cause massive damage (not just to energy-intensive industry) in europe, while other countries are pursuing far less ambitious co2 targets. the us has more or less left the kyoto protocol, turkey has increased its emissions by 115% in the last 20 years. that is why i abstained.
in writing. climate change is of course also a problem for europe, and solutions or at least approaches must be found to counter this threat. on the other hand, we must not forget the essential economic aspect, which arises, among other things, in emissions trading and which certainly must also be seen as a disadvantage in the context of a growing european economy, especially since europe has certainly made its contribution in this respect. i am much more disturbed by the fact that the objectives of the conference are almost utopian and completely harmful to the european economy. i am aware that neither the united states nor china nor turkey are committed to these objectives or even respect them, and for the reasons i have just mentioned i have abstained.
mr president, the high representative can clearly see that this is the most sensitive and most difficult foreign policy issue that the european parliament has to tackle. to tell the truth, i am ambivalent. i do not know what the right decision is, because one thing for sure is that peace can only be achieved if and when israel and the palestinians are ready. for decades now, there has been frustratingly little progress in peace processes. not because no one tried; we have seen many attempts by outside powers to initiate, to prompt, to cajole the two sides into settling their differences, but to no avail. and, by the way, it was mainly the united states and not europe that, up until now, undertook those numerous efforts. the great number of victims on both sides over the past 40 years is a sad testament to the failure of many diplomatic attempts. to recognise the state of palestine might bring the parties back to the negotiating table but, as i said, we cannot force them to make peace; only they can do this.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i think you'll all agree with the statement that children are our future. we should be careful about the future. unfortunately, the reality is different, and not only in europe, where many children and young people are growing up without prospects. children still die of hunger, especially in underdeveloped lands, and in many regions children are used as soldiers. we should bear all this in mind as we celebrate the anniversary of the signing of the convention on the rights of the child today. the convention sets global standards for the protection of children and affirms the fundamental rights to nonviolent education and parental care. the lisbon treaty and the eu charter also require the protection of children's rights. nevertheless, violence in child rearing is still permitted in ten member states. a slap in the face can never be healthy. violence against children is unacceptable. it is a crime against defenseless people and shakes their trust. she's a crime against our future. we need legislation that is in line with the un convention and, above all, we need accompanying public campaigns. children need to feel that they are welcome and that we consider them as equals. this includes a willingness to invest in the education system. this is particularly true in times of austerity. the negative consequences are hard to overcome. every euro not spent on children is a mortgage on the future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. let's face it, the community of the 20 largest countries is a very important and very powerful institution, that it represents two-thirds of the world's population, that it represents two-thirds of global trade, that it represents over 80 percent of global gross income. when such a powerful community comes together, i also expect great solutions, and i do not expect mr juncker's little pocket-picking tricks with an investment package without fresh money and just a transfer of money, but i expect structural solutions in the financial sector. the first would be that, since it became clear during the 2008 crisis, there is finally a separation of commercial and investment banks, so that no longer can the crazy bank managers go to the financial casino with the money of savers and investors, but have the obligation to invest this money, and investment banks are separated from it. this would bring stability to the financial system. secondly, the off-exchange sector must be brought under control so that two thirds of all transactions are no longer carried out in the area of dark pools, over-the-counter trading, leaving the managers and banks free to operate and creating ever larger, uncontrollable, non-transparent structures. the summit has shown that the gap between the g7 countries on the one hand and the brics countries on the other has widened. we don't need that. we need a prosperous future for the community of states, for the big blocs, in the interests of the people, so that the primacy of politics is regained and the financial markets are no longer left on a leash.
i have to say, madam president, now we have heard many interesting opinions and statements. but what i find even more interesting is what we haven't heard yet. the words 'democracy' and 'freedom of expression' were not used, but it was always about the market and the economy. the internet is probably the greatest democratizing machine of mankind, at least as important as printing a few hundred years ago. we should not look at this purely from an economic point of view. i'd warn you against that. if the commission is appointing a commissioner for the digital single market, then we as a parliament, as representatives of the people, should not engage in a purely economic debate, but should work to ensure that the democratic aspect of the internet is given the greatest possible prominence. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the use of the internet, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support this. that should be our parliamentary priority. i miss that aspect. i am sorry that the green amendment was not included in the motion.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this resolution contains many important aspects and demands to give life to the common digital single market. the commission has also been active in the fight against fraud, and has been involved in the development of the european cybercrime centre, the european cybercrime centre and the european cybercrime centre. the resolution does not, however, present any new prospects, but builds on projects of the previous legislature. we have developed good and sound positions. we must continue along this path, defending and developing what we have achieved. i am particularly concerned about net neutrality, and i simply object to the idea that it could be phased out through the back door. this principle must be enshrined in law, as we have decided in this house. commissioner oettinger was not so clear and precise at the hearing as to what he meant by that. it's about the resolution of this house. only a neutral network, which transmits all content equally and quickly, is a good network. the main characteristic of an open and free internet is that it does not prioritize services, but rather it provides services end-to-end. only a neutral network allows innovation and prevents monopolies. this is the only way to ensure that we can exploit the enormous potential of the internet for social and economic development. if we want to keep driving the innovation engine for the creative economy, we need to give all services and content a fair chance to reach basically all internet users.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not my question relates to the development of the steel industry. we are now seeing that the council, for example, is going to cut subsidies in the field of research. horizon 2020 is to be shortened. on the other hand, we see a double taxation through the ets system, because on the one hand electricity has to pay taxes, and on the other hand it is quite clear that heat costs correspondingly. how can we prevent the best production in the world from being renewed in europe in the future?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank you for this debate, because it is very important for all of us to see that on the one hand we can and must criticise, but it is much more important to develop alternatives which will enable us to put forward a positive strategy in europe and to put new, well-paid jobs in europe back in the centre. i would also like to thank commissioner bieńkowska very warmly, because the positive approach to this issue is very important for all of us and of course the question of taxation in this area also plays a major role, because energy costs are of course also largely dependent on taxation and therefore the role of the ets in the steel industry also plays a corresponding role and we cannot therefore accept a double burden on the steel industry. the rules from 2020 onwards will have to be designed to ensure that we can bring the cleanest and most sustainable industry in the world back to europe. what concepts will the commission put forward to ensure that the best and most sustainable steel industry in europe is back in the right frame work? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own energy needs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. over 165 million children under the age of five are malnourished. 2.6 million children die of malnutrition every year in our world, and that is deeply sad and at the same time deeply shameful for us. malnutrition leads to conflict, poverty and social insecurity. the united nations millennium development goals have already accomplished a great deal. in 1990, malnutrition was 18.7%, and now it is 11.2%. much has been achieved, but the number of malnourished children remains unacceptably high. the main cause of hunger is poverty. the experts also attach great importance to the education of women, especially as regards malnutrition, which leads to an increased infant mortality rate. combating poverty in hunger-affected regions means using development cooperation funds better and more efficiently and optimising european funds at national and eu level.
a writer. - mr president, i have to go. pakistan is an important partner for europe. it is therefore of particular interest that human rights should be fully respected here. unfortunately, there are still some worrying human rights violations. we are particularly concerned about the enforcement of the blasphemy law. people are sentenced to long prison terms and in many cases to death for allegedly insulting the prophet muhammad. these blasphemy laws are to be rejected as is the death penalty associated with them. the human right to freedom of religion must not be systematically violated in pakistan and these so-called laws must not play a major role in this. above all, pakistan needs to be reminded that it must stop the self-righteousness that is increasingly spreading in this context. we don't need mob law, we need the rule of law in pakistan.
we are today calling on pakistan to revise its blasphemy laws. we were told in advance by the pakistani side that these laws were designed to protect any religion and that the rule of law would be respected anyway. but the fact is that between 1986 and 2007, 647 people were prosecuted under these laws, and half of those prosecuted were non-muslims. however, 95% of pakistan's population profess the muslim faith! so in fact, the laws, despite all the claims of the pakistani government, primarily affect non-muslims. furthermore, cases like that of muhammad asghar show that people are sentenced to death under these laws who would be found to be incapable of guilt under western jurisdiction. a call for revision of these laws may be a publicity-enhancing first step. but we must now consider further steps to follow up this call for action if pakistan persists in its rigorous policy of applying this injustice.
a writer. - mr president, i have to go. the past is like a dark shadow over the former yugoslavia. it is not something that can be avoided, and therefore it is not something that can be minimized or swept under the rug. you have to work it out, clear up guilt and responsibility. there are ordinary court procedures for that. finding the truth takes time, often an intolerable amount of time, as in the case of vojislav šešelj. the court has now granted the defendants temporary release on humanitarian grounds, as is customary in a state of law. this fact does not entitle anyone to draw any conclusions about a future judgment. it's easy to see that, if the shadow of the past were not over the region. the only way to escape it is to respect the institutions of the rule of law and to cooperate fully with them. the present serbian government has committed itself to this, and we should not make this case the subject of a dysfunctional past-facing.
a writer. - mr president, i have to go. when you hear about northern iraq, about the thousands of women and children being held in camps, it feels like we've been transported back centuries, like there was never a declaration of human rights, a hague convention on the war on terror or the abolition of slavery. a crazed band of ideologically blinded extremists are setting themselves against all that mankind has achieved in civilization. the victims are unimaginable. the most affected are the girls and women of the yazidi community. thousands are detained, stripped of their personal integrity and humiliated, sexually abused, many of them forced into marriages and sold in slave markets. we cannot accept that! we have to help these people. we have put forward this urgent motion because we hope to contribute to the international community's greater commitment to putting an end to this barbaric practice.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion of censure against the commission with all my heart. president juncker was not interested in working with the commission when he was prime minister of the grand duchy of luxembourg. this, and the fact that during his tenure in luxembourg the tax affair surrounding the multinational clients of 'pricewaterhousecoopers' reached its peak, led me to agree to this request.
in writing. president juncker was not interested in working with the commission when he was prime minister of the grand duchy of luxembourg. this, and the fact that he is responsible as the person responsible for creating, implementing, implementing and monitoring this aggressive policy of tax avoidance, undermines his credibility as a president of the commission serving the citizens of the union. i therefore voted in favour of the motion of censure with all my heart.
in the case of the commission, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. this is not a free letter, but a clear mandate from the european parliament to the european commission. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. not only has commission president juncker, during his time as prime minister of luxembourg, created a tax haven for multinationals and corporations at the expense of other member states, but several commissioners he has chosen are, in my view, involved in dubious links with industry and capital. he is thus responsible for creating and implementing an aggressive policy of tax evasion. at a time when the citizens of the eu are faced with increasing poverty, tax burdens and unemployment, this commission is neither a model nor does it live up to the standards it has repeatedly set for its citizens. that is why i voted with the utmost conviction in favour of the motion of censure.
in writing. since the committee on uniform resolution is to be rejected as a whole, i also rejected the request for advance payments of contributions for the same. the creation of another committee whose sole purpose is to protect the various european nation states is unnecessary and should be avoided.
in writing. since the committee on uniform settlement is to be rejected as a whole, i also rejected the request for advance payments of contributions. the creation of another committee whose sole purpose is to protect the various european nation states is completely unnecessary.
in writing. considering that the creation of another committee is only intended to transfer further competences from the member states to brussels and that this is ultimately a form of patronage in the sense of brussels' eu centralism, which i strongly reject as such, i voted against the proposal on advance payments of contributions.
in writing. in general, the draft cohesion policy for 2014-2020 should be approved. however, the payment backlog of eur 23 billion for the 2007-2013 programming period has to be settled before implementation for the 2014-2020 programming period. otherwise, no funding of the new project can be supported until the previous one has been completed.
in writing. in general, the draft cohesion policy for 2014-2020 should be approved. however, the existing backlog of payments of eur 23 billion for the 2007-2013 programming period must be settled before implementation for the 2014-2020 programming period. i am firmly against giving the people an a for an o and have been advocating for years for clarity in eu fiscal policy. i do not see that clarity and transparency being maintained here at the moment. i therefore voted against the motion.
in writing. the fact that the €23 billion payment backlog for the 2007-2013 programming period still has to be settled before implementation for the 2014-2020 programming period has led me to vote against the draft cohesion policy for 2014-2020. it is not possible for new projects to be financed before the old ones are completed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the impact assessment guidelines which play an important role in the commission’s smart regulation agenda. ias are an early-stage tool in developing legislation and can effectively contribute to providing transparent, comprehensive and balanced evidence on economic, social and environmental areas. they also determine possible difficulties, costs and benefits of the addressed issue. ia guidelines make the sme legislation friendlier in adapting to new legal requirements and changes.
in writing. - children play an important role in our society and are the most vulnerable. however, in many countries children’s rights are still often violated and many are abused, exploited and denied access to education. each child should be guaranteed the rights of survival, development and wellbeing. i was in favour of the eu’s commitment of mainstreaming children’s rights in the eu and around the world.
in writing. given that the digital single market is a source of high-quality and sustainable employment and that the volume of trade in the digital single market can make a significant contribution to overcoming the economic crisis, i have given my consent to this request. however, this is conditional on the protection of the final consumer. in order not to distort the market picture, the commission is urged to strictly prevent the commercial re-use of personal data. we hope that the data protection directives will be enforced as consistently as they are formulated in the proposal, because only then can a profitable digital single market emerge and become a pillar of the european economy.
in writing. the digital single market now employs thousands of people across europe and the trade volume of the digital single market has the potential to make a significant contribution to overcoming the economic crisis. however, it is always necessary to define data protection standards and monitor their observance. in order not to distort the market picture, the commission is urged to strictly prevent the commercial re-use of personal data. i hope that the data protection guidelines will be enforced as consistently as they are formulated in the proposal. this is the only way to create a profitable digital single market and become a pillar of the european economy. that is why i voted for the motion.
in writing. the digital single market is undoubtedly one of the most important economic pillars for europe in the future, which can make a significant contribution to overcoming the economic crisis through high-quality and sustainable employment. it is important that the commission ensures that data protection is adequate and that the commercial re-use of personal data is largely prevented. i am firmly convinced that the digital single market is a crucial factor for the development of europe and i have therefore agreed to the request.
in writing. - of about a billion people suffering from hunger, approximately 225 million are children under the age of five. children’s undernutrition is the biggest contributor to child mortality and diseases worldwide. i supported the resolution which should not only guarantee the right to food, life, health, education and water, but mainly for the eu to implement development aid programmes for small and medium agriculture production which would provide food to its citizens and help to build economies in developing countries.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am also new to the transport committee. we have already had a brief discussion of this in your interview. now, of course, we all want to see an improvement in road safety on europe's roads. in this case, it is also welcome in principle to have a uniform european-wide regulation, something to combat scrap-leakage. in austria we are particularly affected by this, because the proximity to eastern countries is again reflected in our roads. this is not just a matter of road safety, but also, as has been said on several occasions, of the workers involved in this sector. i think the approaches are good, namely that they say to put in place the checkpoints at the enterprises - like this one here - i think this makes sense. the idea of a traffic manager is also something that will have to be proven in practice, but i think that makes sense too. the question for me is, and some of my colleagues have already said this, how the classification that is carried out there is then carried out in practice, and whether the people subject to the law know exactly what to do there. i doubt that. however, i was a little surprised today by my colleague from the epp who said that they would not agree to this. i think he'll have his own reasons for not agreeing to this. evil is he who suspects evil in this case.
the commission has already done so. i would like to say this in retrospect, that i too wish you a good cooperation and may i start by saying that i think you should not make the same mistake in your next five years as your predecessor did. he has pursued transport policy solely under the auspices of his ideological ideas that the big ones should become stronger and stronger and the small ones should disappear in the end - also in the case of freight companies. the regulation he has proposed here is an expression of this idea: little regard for social rules, reduction of penalties, limitation of the facts of criminal offences. these are all things that those who are small and mean can't get around, because they can't move their seats, they can't hire drivers from all over europe. the small suffer, the big benefit. and that ends up with everyone having less, except for a few big ones who are earning more and more. we do not want this kind of transport policy. so i think that's going to be rejected, and you're going to have to come up with a new, better proposal. i hope he will be better, and then you will also find the approval of this house, which would be very reasonable. i would like to say that, and a final comment, commissioner: do not be fooled by the fact that some of my colleagues have disappeared with their fan club. they're already democratically legitimized to do things here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. at the eu summit on thursday and friday this week, the heads of state or government will decide on the €315 billion investment package proposed by commission president juncker. broad political fault lines are already emerging. the southern europeans are demanding more fresh money, italy and france want infrastructure investment to be excluded from the deficit, and the european social democrats agreed over the weekend that the package is too small and should also benefit workers more. a 315 billion investment booster would certainly be good for europe if it were a) real money, a real investment package and not a risk-taking package, and b) the european fund for strategic investments were actually a fund which clearly disclosed return expectations to private investors in order to be able to mobilise private money as well. none of this is the case. but that is not the main reason why europe is weakening. the main reason why this investment package is not an investment package is that there is no confidence in the european financial markets and in monetary union. companies are not investing any more, they are not borrowing any more, because they can no longer find the framework. these conditions must be created. we must restore confidence in the financial markets and in the monetary union.
i have to say, madam president, i asked commissioner moscovici in the econ committee, in the debate on the two-pack and six-pack, how seriously he takes the rules of economic governance, in particular the rules of the stability pact and the resulting sanctions, given that sanctions are now automatically triggered. he said he would take this very seriously, then went on to say in the media that he would wait until march next year to find a solution for france, italy and belgium, which are now considered problematic in the area of the convergence criteria. that is a contradiction in terms. this is not serious, and i ask myself: what good are complex rules of economic policy, what good is a stability pact, what good is a two-pack and a six-pack, what good are rules which are not respected and which are not sanctioned for failure to comply with them? what will happen by march next year? the french minister for economic affairs has already shown us that he will unleash the french economy. he's going to bring a package for more growth. he will unleash the professions, he will privatize, he will sell off state holdings, and so on. economists are skeptical: it's all too piecemeal, it's not a big leap, it's not going to lead to growth. italy had a general strike last weekend against labour market reforms and budget laws, citizens took to the streets. i say to you: the best economic policy measures are of no use to us if they are not respected and if they are not sanctioned.
in writing. ‒ in my view, mrs emily o'reilly will fulfil the tasks entrusted to her to the fullest satisfaction, so i support the proposal to appoint her as the new european ombudsman. the task of filling this post and the responsibility it entails for the european union and its citizens is a challenge which it will carry out to the best of its ability.
in writing. ‒ the post of european ombudsman is one that is characterised above all by many new challenges. i think emily o'reilly has done a responsible and satisfactory job in this area. i therefore voted in favour of appointing her as european ombudsman.
in writing. ‒ since this vote constitutes a legal adjustment in the sense of repealing an outdated directive, i could vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ food safety monitoring is currently carried out by the efsa. the vote was to repeal an obsolete predecessor directive which referred to the predecessor agency of efsa. the repeal of this directive is therefore designed to reduce the burden on european law and to reduce bureaucracy. that is why i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the vote on this convention. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal welfare of the community is not compromised. however, individual countries whose animal welfare systems go far beyond those provided for in the cites convention must not be restricted in their powers.
in writing. ‒ the cites convention is basically a step in the right direction, although i always stress that it can only be a first step towards conserving biodiversity and protecting animals. i think it is important, however, that the union should now join the agreement as a legal entity in its own right. that is why i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ animal welfare is an important issue in europe and needs to be strengthened. the eu can act as a representative of all member states to give this undertaking a voice on the international stage. however, it should be noted that individual countries which set their animal welfare rules far above those provided for in the cites convention do not reduce their powers, if not even restrict them. however, since animal welfare is also a matter of great concern to me, i have agreed to this request.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed this proposal because there is already an existing agreement on a civilian global satellite navigation system with the kingdom of morocco from 2006 and this brings benefits to both sides.
in writing. the cooperation with morocco in the field of a civil global satellite navigation system is not likely to involve any financial risks in the concrete design. the possibility of misuse is no greater than that of existing satellite navigation systems such as the gps system. that is why i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ given that there is already an existing agreement on a civilian global satellite navigation system with the kingdom of morocco from 2006 and that it provides far-reaching benefits to both the eu and morocco, i have agreed to the request.
in writing. ‒ i have refused to extend this agreement, because, firstly, the circumstances surrounding the civil war in ukraine are different now from when it was concluded, and secondly, the european union's resources would be better used in various other fields of activity.
in writing. this proposal concerns the continuation of cooperation with ukraine in scientific and technical fields. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. however, the specific circumstances of the individual case must also be appreciated and, in view of the very tense situation in the region at present, i think it is appropriate to postpone the subject. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ in view of the current situation in eastern ukraine and the resulting tensions between russia, ukraine and the eu, i consider any renewal of agreements to which the eu is clearly a party to be obsolete and have abstained from voting on this motion. i also think that the european union's resources would be better spent in other areas which concern the eu as such.
in writing. ‒ since croatia has fulfilled all the conditions for accession to the european economic area, i can only give my approval to this request. the accession of croatia to the eea will give it the same rights as other eea member states, but also the same obligations.
in writing. as a member of the european union, croatia must be able to formally participate in the european economic area. that is the logical reason why i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to this request because i believe that croatia fulfils all the conditions for membership of the european economic area and therefore has the same rights but also obligations.
in writing. ‒ i support this proposal because the french outermost regions are already in a bad economic position, due to their remoteness, their confinement to a narrow local market, their weak export activity and their dependence on raw materials. however, since they are part of france and therefore also part of the european union, it makes sense to support these areas.
in writing. the purpose of the request was to allow the french republic to exempt certain outermost regions from a special tax. the regions in question have always been in a precarious economic situation and are often dependent on financial support. the argument that the regions should be relieved of excessive burdens in order to maintain their competitiveness was therefore crucial to me. that is why i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ since the french outermost regions are already in a bad economic position, whether due to their remoteness, their confinement to a narrow local market, their weak export activity or their dependence on raw materials, i have approved the request.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to help the italian company whirlpool because all the eligibility criteria are met. the company was also particularly hard hit by the financial crisis, as shown above all by the fact that the overall household appliance sector decreased by more than 16% between 2010 and 2013.
in writing. the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for whirlpool is to be supported as the company concerned fulfils all the criteria for support. it is also very commendable that the italian government has already begun to provide assistance to the affected workers before applying for eu support. this will ensure that the resources provided by the union are used wisely and that they are used for the benefit of workers. i therefore voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ i gave a decisive assent to the request for assistance concerning the italian company whirlpool, not only because the company was particularly hard hit by the financial crisis, which is reflected in its sales of household appliances, but also because i consider it important that the eu should respond to european companies and workers with appropriate assistance, especially in times of crisis.
in writing. ‒ i have given my consent to the application to support auto poland s.a. from the egf. the polish government's active support will enable the more than 1000 redundant workers to re-enter the labour market in the short and medium term.
in writing. the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund for fiat auto poland is, in my view, worth supporting, as the company concerned fulfils all the formal criteria for the granting of the aid. the idea of maintaining know-how in the field of production of small cars in the region concerned is of particular importance to me. i therefore voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the provision of assistance to auto poland s.a. from the european globalisation adjustment fund is a necessity that must be met, especially in times of crisis. i have also agreed to this request because the polish government has actively helped more than a thousand dismissed persons to re-enter the labour market in the short and medium term.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the application for egf support for the company odyssefs fokas. the situation in greece is particularly tragic for the retail trade, in which the company odyssefs fokas is also active. the greek government is particularly commendable in setting up a care system co-financed by the egf for the approximately 500 young people affected who are not in education, training or employment.
in writing. the company concerned in the complaint had already had to lay off 600 workers in an already structurally weak region, mainly due to a decline in consumption in greece. the financial support is intended to help former odyssefs-fokas employees to make their way to self-employment or retraining. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i was convinced that the application for aid from the european globalisation adjustment fund for odyssefs fokas was acceptable, given the particular dramatic situation in the greek retail sector and the fact that the greek government has been particularly positive in this respect, since it will set up a care system co-financed by the fund for the approximately 500 young people concerned who are not in education, training or employment.
in writing. ‒ i have given my approval to the use of the egf by the french airline air france. the declining market share of the eu-27 in international air transport has led to more than 3800 redundancies in this company alone. the reintegration of these workers into the labour market is only desirable and should therefore also be co-financed by the egf.
in writing. the request concerned the granting of financial aid to air france, which has its headquarters in the île-de-france region. this is a region which is currently suffering particularly from global competitive pressure. the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for air france should be supported as the company concerned fulfils all the criteria for support. the french government's extensive plans for the reintegration of the workers concerned are particularly noteworthy, and they indicate that the funds allocated will be used efficiently. i therefore voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the application by the french airline air france to use the european globalisation adjustment fund, given the recent tragic events in that company. the re-employment and reintegration of the 3800 workers mentioned in the report must be pursued by all means available to the eu. the mobilisation of the globalisation fund is intended to ensure this.
in writing. ‒ the proposal on the composition of the single resolution board by the commission did not receive my approval and was not rejected. mrs elke könig will act as chairman of this committee to the best of her knowledge and conscience and will bring all her experience to bear on the work of the committee, but unfortunately i can only reject the committee itself.
in writing. the candidates nominated are very qualified, but i am very sceptical of the panel: although i also think it is appropriate to monitor the financial market, which is one of the areas of focus of the panel, more closely. however, this cannot in principle be to the detriment of the member states' competences and national autonomy. i have abstained on this point of order.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the composition of the single resolution board by the commission and believe that mrs elke könig is the right person to chair it, as she also brings the appropriate experience.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i am not going to go into the details. i have been listening very carefully and i wanted to ask because i am very interested in one of the points you made. they said that the economy always takes the lead, that the companies always take the lead and that they should not be hindered. in return, does this mean no more social legislation, no more labour laws, low wages for employees, low taxes for large corporations? no, that's something we don't want to work with you on, if that's what you mean. we don't mean that. we believe that the economic recovery should benefit all and not just a few.
, in writing. europe needs a new start, a paradigm shift, because the challenges we face now need to be tackled in a different way than in the past. a new start is urgently needed: jean-claude juncker has given an important first signal by announcing the withdrawal of certain legislation in hinkunft. this is a step in the right direction. the next step is to propose concrete measures, and to work more closely with the european parliament. one thing is clear - the new work programme for 2015 also needs more transparency and proximity to citizens. the commission has identified job creation and growth as key priorities. these must be in key areas such as the digital single market, the creation of an energy union and energy efficiency. this is where the potential for creating sustainable and ecological jobs lies. i expect jean-claude juncker to align his eu investment package accordingly. finally, it is also necessary to deal with the current crisis centres and the worrying situation in the middle east. by building on the european neighbourhood policy, the eu can and must act as a global actor and speak with one voice. we must not miss this new start for europe - the socialist group will be particularly vigilant to ensure that this change actually takes place.
in writing. i am very pleased with the priorities in the commission's work programme for 2015! it is very positive that the commission intends to tackle the major challenges facing the european union in 2015. i am personally pleased that the focus has been on migration and refugee policy. finally, the commission has recognised that there must be a common european policy on migration and refugees. i am well aware that we cannot solve the refugee problem alone, but we can try to improve some aspects! the example of poverty migration is one of these. the european union has the means and the instruments to combat this migration of poverty more effectively and in a more targeted manner within europe. the cohesion policy, which accounts for about a third of the budget, will help us to tackle poverty migration. i will be following closely the work of the commission and of cohesion policy in this particular area and, if necessary, will point out the shortcomings, but also the positive developments!
i have to say, madam president, i think we're going to have a big challenge with the budget next year. we want to ensure that the european union does not become indebted. it is simply not possible for member states to pay off their debts in europe at the expense of the member states and then not take this into account in the stability pact. i believe that the juncker plan has a great chance of having a serious discussion on the subject of own resources. it is quite simple to, for example, auction the 700 mhz frequency band across europe in 28 countries and link the auction revenues to the connecting europe facility, and you have a solid foundation. if we can add funds from the financial facility, from horizon 2020, and put it all into a ppp model, that it will be really interesting to invest in a fibre roll-out, in a network infrastructure, in the digital single market, and if the next presidency finally has the courage to pass this digital single market package, then we will have made a great deal of progress. i also think that the new projects that we've started to do, they show us very clearly that this program for the female business angels could also be an incentive to do more here.
in writing. as we are meeting today to discuss the budget, i should like to take this opportunity to point out another potential for savings: i believe that ipa pre-accession payments to turkey can be stopped altogether. payments to turkey amount to eur 4.8 billion since 2007. on average, the annual payment is increased by about 11%, but turkey's conversion to european values is the opposite. on sunday, december 14, turkish police arrested a total of 31 people, including the editor-in-chief of the daily newspaper zaman, ekrem dumanlı. this is another wave of arbitrary arrests to silence political opponents and critics. instead of punishing turkey's increasingly progressive departure from european values and democracy in general with harsh sanctions, the eu can continue to be held back. why are sanctions not imposed on turkey within a few weeks, as they were in the case of russia, to bring it back to a democratic path?
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr sorin moisă, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 55/2008 establishing autonomous trade preferences in respect of the republic of moldova (com (2014) 0542 - c8-0128/2014 - 2014/0250 (cod)) (a8-0053/2014).
the next speaker is mrs sandra kalniete, whom i would like to thank in advance for her speech before i give her the floor, because she is the only woman among members who is speaking in this debate.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 17 december. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr helmut scholz, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the customs treatment of goods originating in ecuador (com ((2014) 0585 - c8-0172/2014 - 2014/0287 ((cod)) (a8-0056/2014).
thank you very much to the rapporteur, mr scholz. i would like also like to wish you, commissioner, a merry christmas, i hope you can enjoy some holiday, and all the best for the new year. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 17 december 2014. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral reply to the council by claude moraes, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the renewal of the eu internal security strategy (o-000089/2014 b8-0044/2014) and the request for an oral reply to the commission by claude moraes, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the renewal of the eu internal security strategy (o-000090/2014 b8-0045/2014) (2014/2918 (((rsp)).
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) we have reached a broad compromise between several political groups. i expect that the commission will take our priorities into consideration when the new internal security strategy (iss) for the current mandate is being finalised. since we adopted the previous internal security strategy, the lisbon treaty has come into force and the charter of fundamental rights is now incorporated in european union law. therefore the whole iss should be updated in order to fully comply with the charter of fundamental rights. the resolution contains a reference to that so there should be a proper assessment of gaps and the commission should perform a stocktaking exercise with focus on proper implementation. it is of the utmost importance that we can reach an agreement on the directive on data protection as soon as possible in order to have a legal framework for sharing of data for law enforcement purposes. proper implementation of the new iss will be crucial and the european parliament, as well as the national parliaments, should be part of the monitoring process for democratic scrutiny. the resolution before us is the result of a compromise and i recommend that we support the text as it stands.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. all people have a fundamental right to feel safe and to live a life free from fear. that is why today's debate is of great importance. of course, security is not achieved by restricting freedom. freedom and security are not contradictory, but mutually dependent. to effectively counter the threats posed by organised and crossborder crime and terrorism, europe needs a holistic strategy. a common europe requires a common policy through enhanced police and judicial cooperation in the spirit of european solidarity. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. and it also needs a corresponding level of social security. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social security system is not undermined. it is particularly in times of economic crisis that it is necessary to understand security policy in this holistic sense. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the resolution to be voted on tomorrow by the libe committee, one year after the tragedy in lampedusa, is intended to take a holistic approach. it is intended to guide the commission's work as parliament and our committee see it. i would like to encourage the commission to go further on this. first, i believe we must commit ourselves to promoting the effective legal immigration of refugees and skilled workers to europe. it would be useful to set up eu checkpoints in third countries. secondly, a quota system, or minimum quotas, should be binding on all eu member states in terms of the reception of migrants. that should be punishable. we also want to accompany the increased fight against illegal immigration, smuggling and trafficking in human beings with significantly more funding for frontex, europol and triton. it is gratifying that we can decide tomorrow to increase the budget for frontex by eur 23 million. the resolution from the libe committee tomorrow on the new eu strategy for internal security also has links to our subject. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i recommend this to the commission.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have the impression that many here are not aware of the seriousness and the great drama of our situation. we have unemployment on our continent at levels not seen for decades. we have a development in the area of poverty which should alarm us all. we have a situation in the monetary field where the euro is characterized by extreme instability and where the wealth of the population is being deprived by the permanent deprivation of purchasing power with a zero interest rate policy of the european central bank. the only proposal that is being made by the eu, the commission, the council and also by the majority in this house is to bring about a restructuring here with a financial package that is to be increased by 15 times. this product has also been disqualified as an alchemical product by newspapers all over europe, which means nothing more than that here a lot of tricks are to be used to remedy a situation that cannot be financed and remedied in this way. europe has worked in times of nationalism with national currencies. it's not working now. i'll leave it to you to decide which is the better way. it is clear to any person of understanding which is the better way. (the speaker agrees to answer the question of another member in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. thank you very much, madam president. it's a pleasure to meet you, mr. vilimsky. now you've told me everything that doesn't suit you, everything that's bad. but you never get to even represent what you imagine so that things change. you have no ideas at all, you just say no. what's the point? it's not going to do anything. the only thing you want is for us to go on alone again - alone against the big corporations, alone against the multi-bankers operating worldwide. you know what happens when you do? then what happens is that we all do not want them to get richer, and those whom we social democrats represent, namely those who have to earn their money, have to pay more and more. that's what happens when you get ahead.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i'm not sure i understand. what i've heard from you is pure polemics. but the way it could work has manifested itself on this continent over decades, through a national monetary policy, a national economic policy, where nevertheless the states have cooperated on equal terms and in friendship with each other. the policy that is being pursued now is purely for the benefit of the corporations, the multinationals. and you know very well, for example, that in the ttip area, which you know you will be voting for today, you will open the door to european companies even further and will further increase the disastrous developments on our continent.
i have to say, madam president, our policy aims to strengthen the independence of the member states, to respect human rights, to respect international law and to ensure growth and employment, investment and competitiveness in the european union. let's get back to the summit! i expect from this summit that the member states will make a concrete commitment, rather than defending themselves constantly. i expect this summit to take the commission's proposals seriously and to take decisions to implement the commission's proposals and parliament's decisions. i expect from this summit that each country will make its contribution to making the juncker plan for growth and jobs a reality. we can double the 21 billion, we can increase the guarantees, we can create tax incentives and we can propose projects, projects which have a european added value instead of nationalising the funds, which are sustainable ecologically, socially and economically instead of having a one-off effect. i expect you to. seriousness and not nationalization of the fund! i expect in concrete terms that budgetary consolidation will continue with a cash crunch in all the member states, that structural reforms will be intensified so that we have money for investment and that deregulation will follow the example of the commission. that's what i expect from this summit. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. firstly, i am very pleased that the president of the commission has already pointed out on several occasions before his election that the european parliament's report on the troika review provides him with essential starting points for reforming european union policy. secondly, we must work for - and we need the member states to do so - the transfer of all emergency structures to the community legal framework in response to the crisis. the charter of fundamental rights and freedoms also applies to the implementation of national law. and we stand by it!
i guess i was told too late. i'm sorry about that.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. there is a shadow over europe. a shadow of injustice. we all feel it. every citizen is dissatisfied with this injustice in the european union. we have a situation where the salaries of the selfemployed, who in most member states have to work hard for their money, have not really risen in the last twenty years. on the other hand, the super-rich, the big banks, the big corporations, they profit from our situation, that we feel is unfair. if we do not succeed in removing this injustice, we will have a growing problem. if citizens feel that their community is unjust, they are not behind it. then they're not for it. then we who want a united europe, a just europe, will have no support. that's a problem, and it can be solved. and it's also about solving inequality. it is unfair in europe and we must change it. i would like to summarize this again: we have tax injustice. we have to fix this. we must also ensure that there is equality before the law in europe. this is also one of our basic values, and we must take care of it. we cannot conclude a trade agreement where corporations go to special courts and the ordinary citizen, the ordinary citizen, has to go to ordinary courts. that's not fair either. we must strive to re-create a fair europe where everyone is equal. then this europe will go forward. otherwise, there's going to be a big problem.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
in writing. since we have already voted against the association agreement with the republic of moldova, it only makes sense to reject the proposal for autonomous trade preferences with the same. any further step towards the approximation of the republic of moldova to the european union may have serious consequences for both sides and is therefore not to be supported.
in the light of the recent events in the region, the commission has decided to extend the period of validity of the agreement to the period of two years. i therefore voted against the motion.
in writing. - in view of my opposition to the association agreement, due to its unilateral and ill-considered long-term consequences, both from the foreign policy point of view in relation to relations with russia and from the conviction that at the moment there are no guarantees for such an agreement, but that the eu would therefore be taking on even more financial risks, i also rejected the proposal on autonomous trade preferences.
in writing. i abstained from the vote on the customs treatment of goods originating in ecuador, as i do not believe that ecuador can meet the required amendments in time or obtain the consent of peru and colombia to the eu-ecuador free trade agreement. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade in agricultural products is not affected by the gatt agreements.
in writing. - i have no fundamental objection to granting preferential customs duties to promote development aid and to open up the possibility for countries to provide aid through self-help. however, i do not see in the present application any guarantees for the prevention of child labour or other exploitative production practices which i believe could have been associated with it. that is why i abstained.
in writing. in my view, ecuador cannot meet the required amendments within the timeframe or obtain the consent of peru and colombia to the eu-ecuador free trade agreement, so i voted against this proposal.
in writing. the use of the contingency margin should be rejected in general, as it shows that the european union's financial resources are not being spent in good faith, but are largely used to maintain political influence in certain unstable regions. the increased use of this margin of manoeuvre is already reducing the capacity to act in the years ahead.
in writing. - the application concerns the use of the margin for unforeseen expenditure for the year ending. the focus is on settling old invoices. i am convinced that the commission is not going to be able to do anything about this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i do not see that as a given in this case. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. that is why i voted against the motion.
in writing. - instead of using the european union's financial resources to the best of its knowledge and conscience, they are to be spent largely on maintaining political influence in certain unstable regions. it is precisely by making greater use of the scope for action mentioned in the proposal that the capacity for action in the coming years is already being curtailed. i therefore rejected this report entirely.
in writing. i rejected draft amending budget no 3 because it legitimizes the diversion of fines from the member states. these should be held in escrow by the european union only until the member states have rectified their wrongdoing and should not be used to finance the european community. this would lead to a life of credit and cannot be successful in the long run.
in writing. - i voted against the motion because i take for granted the financial transparency of the european union and its institutions. it is not appropriate that this request should also be used to settle accounts which could have been taken into account at least approximately beforehand.
in writing. i voted against draft amending budget no 3 because it legitimises the diversion of fines from the member states, rather than their being intercepted by the european union. it would be sensible if the member states had first cleaned up their act and the money was not used to finance the eu, as this would only result in a life on credit in the long term.
in writing. since some elements of the amending budget may seem quite positive, such as amending budgets nos 4, 6 and 8, it might be considered that the drafts as a whole should be approved. the fact that the overall budget is still far too high to be financed in a reasonable and, above all, sustainable way over the next few years, however, weighs heavier and i reject it.
in writing. as this proposal would also impose a greater burden on austria, i rejected it in principle. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the proposal also forms the basis for the amending budgets nos 3, 4, 6 and 8. the amendments to the budget were also rejected.
in writing. i fully support the request for assistance from the eu solidarity fund to the countries mentioned. the european union has a duty to help its member states after such severe natural disasters. the solidarity fund was set up for this very purpose.
in writing. support for eu citizens who have been severely affected by disasters and are thus put to the test by fate is generally welcome. i therefore voted in favour of the mobilisation of the solidarity fund for italy, greece, slovenia and croatia, as the fund is designed for such causes and should be used accordingly to help the people in the affected regions.
in writing. i fully support the request for assistance from the eu solidarity fund to the countries mentioned. the european union has a duty to help its member states after such severe natural disasters. the solidarity fund was set up for this very purpose.
in writing. - the formal criteria for the allocation of the aid were met and the aid was to be provided to the member states concerned in a rapid and unbureaucratic manner, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. as this proposal would also impose a greater burden on austria, i rejected it in principle. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the proposal also forms the basis for the amending budgets nos 3, 4, 6 and 8. the amendments to the budget were also rejected.
in writing. since some elements of the amending budget may seem quite positive, such as amending budgets nos 4, 6 and 8, it might be considered that the drafts as a whole should be approved. the fact that the overall budget is still far too high to be financed in a reasonable and, above all, sustainable way over the next few years, however, weighs heavier and i reject it.
in writing. - as the estimates put the planning for the current period on a more reliable basis, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. as this proposal would also impose a greater burden on austria, i rejected it in principle. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the proposal also forms the basis for the amending budgets nos 3, 4, 6 and 8. the amendments to the budget were also rejected.
in writing. i also support this motion in its entirety. the gravity of this disaster is not borne by the individual member states alone. serbia in particular is in urgent need of assistance, as the damage caused there amounts to more than one billion euros.
in writing. i also support this motion in its entirety. the gravity of this disaster is not borne by the individual member states alone. serbia in particular is in urgent need of assistance, as the damage caused there amounts to more than one billion euros.
in writing. - the formal criteria for the allocation of the aid were met and the aid was to be provided to the member states concerned in a rapid and unbureaucratic manner, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. since some elements of the amending budget may seem quite positive, such as amending budgets nos 4, 6 and 8, it might be considered that the drafts as a whole should be approved. the fact that the overall budget is still far too high to be financed in a reasonable and, above all, sustainable way over the next few years, however, weighs heavier and i reject it.
in writing. - the application should allow the carry-over of budget surpluses from 2013 to the 2014 financial year. i think this is generally commendable, but i also criticise the lack of transparency towards the public. that is why i abstained.
in writing. as this proposal would also impose a greater burden on austria, i rejected it in principle. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the proposal also forms the basis for the amending budgets nos 3, 4, 6 and 8. the amendments to the budget were also rejected.
in writing. i have rejected this proposal on the grounds that the new calculation of the contribution levels will impose a higher burden on austria. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. - the application is intended to allow the repayment or repayment of eu contributions required by the treaty to be postponed. this was incomprehensible to me for several reasons. on the one hand, member states can easily raise the comparatively low contributions. on the other hand, i cannot understand the criticism of the practice of the past, since the rules of the past were decided by the member states themselves. i also do not think that this change in practice is appropriate, since the member states can always advocate a reduction in the eu budget and thus a reduction in their respective contributions. i therefore voted against the motion.
in writing. as this proposal would also impose a greater burden on austria, i rejected it in principle. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the proposal also forms the basis for the amending budgets nos 3, 4, 6 and 8. the amendments to the budget were also rejected.
in writing. a new solidarity fund for regions affected by disasters should be supported. we must continue to support those citizens of the european union who have been hard hit by the tragedy and help them to rebuild their homes.
in writing. - the formal criteria for the allocation of the aid were met and the aid was to be provided to the member states concerned in a rapid and unbureaucratic manner, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. support for eu citizens who have been severely affected by disasters and are thus put to the test by fate is generally welcome. i therefore voted in favour of the re-establishment of the solidarity fund for regions affected by disasters.
in writing. i cannot but reject the idea of increasing funds with money that is not available and thus further pushing the eu's debt.
in writing. - since the concrete impact assessment seems to me to be insufficient, and since i am particularly lacking in meaningful and plausible calculations of the economic development of the region which can be expected from the financial aid, i voted against granting aid in this case.
in writing. since some elements of the amending budget may seem quite positive, such as amending budgets nos 4, 6 and 8, it might be considered that the drafts as a whole should be approved. the fact that the overall budget is still far too high to be financed in a reasonable and, above all, sustainable way over the next few years, however, weighs heavier and i reject it.
in writing. i have rejected the new general budget of the european union as it is nothing but a mixture of further debt and its commitment of resources which in principle do not contribute to the preservation of the union or have any sustainability. it would be desirable to finally put forward a sustainable and, above all, more efficient strategy for the general budget. however, this is not the case.
in writing. since some elements of the amending budget may seem quite positive, such as amending budgets nos 4, 6 and 8, it might be considered that the drafts as a whole should be approved. the fact that the overall budget is still far too high to be able to finance it reasonably and above all sustainably over the next few years, however, weighs heavier and is rejected by me.
in writing. i have voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it seeks to extend the scope of the commission's proposal for a regulation. this increases the safety of road users and the drivers of the vehicles concerned. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve road safety, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account in its proposals. the extension of the list of recognised infringements will contribute to this.
in writing. i have agreed to this regulation because it not only increases the safety of road users but also that of drivers of motor vehicles. the extension of the list of recognised infringements will make a significant contribution to road safety in general.
in writing. environmental protection is an important concern. by including transport routes and the extraction methods of raw materials, in particular oil and its refined products, in the carbon footprint of the product concerned, we create a fairer and more truthful environmental footprint. that is why i have voted in favour of the proposal. it also makes environmentally questionable methods of extracting oil and gas in the european union and the sale of products obtained from these processes more difficult.
in writing. we are creating a fairer and more accurate carbon footprint for each product by including transport routes and the extraction methods of raw materials, especially oil and its refined products. i have also voted in favour of the proposal because i believe that environmental protection is also sustainable in the economic sense and because this proposal also makes it more difficult to produce and sell oil and gas in the european union using methods which are environmentally questionable.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because the delegated regulation proposed by the commission could have a possible impact on the reproductive capacity of cod and that would not be acceptable. the minimum reference size shall not be changed.
in writing. i fully support this motion for a resolution, since the delegated regulation proposed by the commission could have a possible impact on the reproductive capacity of cod and this would be unacceptable.
in writing. i have approved this proposal because the commission has deviated from the opinion of the advisory bodies in several important respects. this has been the case in technical and professional matters and leads to a low calibration of risk factors. to counteract this, i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. since the commission has diverged from the opinion of the advisory bodies in several important respects, i have agreed to the request. this has been the case, among other things, in technical and professional matters, and this has led to a low calibration of risk factors.
in writing. i support the proposal to renew the eu internal security strategy, as i believe that the current internal security strategy needs to be thoroughly evaluated, updated and modernised. the current and likely future threat of international terrorism and various other dangers require an adjustment of the security apparatus.
in writing. - the current strategy for internal security needs, in my view, both a thorough evaluation and a modernisation. the current and likely future threat of international terrorism and various other dangers require a corresponding adjustment of the security apparatus. that's why i agreed to the request.
in writing. i voted against the motion for a resolution because it is neither helpful nor appropriate for the european union to intervene in this conflict of interests as long as there is no consensus on which to base further negotiations. i also think that the european union has made a complete mistake in its position, since it has not been given any competence in this area.
in writing. since this question is not within the eu's competence and, in my view, raises first of all the question of whether the mutual acceptance between the state of israel and the palestinians allows for palestinian statehood at all which cannot be established after the events of recent years and recent events , this question is therefore also obsolete for the time being. i also find it very questionable that by this recognition organizations like hamas are still being confirmed in their actions, for example by being removed from the list of terrorist organizations.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. over the last few years, more than 40 000 jobs have been lost in the european steel industry. and thousands more will follow, if we can believe the words of the president of the world steel association, mr eder, who said this in a recent interview. mr eder is the ceo of the largest austrian steel company, voestalpine ag. this company has been in the news a lot this year because it's outsourcing its production to the united states. the company cited the high tax and duty burden in austria, the high energy costs, the high environmental requirements and the lack of reform intentions of the federal government as reasons for this outsourcing. the company also criticised the eu's expensive and strict co2 regulations. from 2020 alone, voestalpine ag expects to spend eur 230 million annually on the purchase of emission allowances. this situation is characteristic of the steel industry and of the whole of europe's energy-intensive industry and is leading to a deindustrialisation of europe. the american government, on the contrary, is going to go into massive reindustrialization, incentivizing companies to move in. unfortunately, this is not the case in europe. the degree of reindustrialisation was not agreed. that is why i support this initiative, today's resolution on the european steel industry, and the commission's action plan to re-industrialise europe.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the proposal is worth supporting if it contains concrete proposals for improving working conditions and safety at work.
in writing. manufacturing is the backbone of the european economy. the steel industry is in a special position. the sustainable strengthening of the steel sector is essential for a new recovery in europe, including a boost to employment. however, the european steel industry has been under intense competitive pressure and restructuring for many years. i have signed the resolution on the protection of workers and industries in the steel industry in the eu. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, a large number of subcontractors and services are directly linked to the steel sector. this creates jobs in the eu and contributes to a strong european economy. the key is to maintain the quality of jobs. the well-trained workers in the steel industry must be protected accordingly and involved from the outset in restructuring. the rights to information and consultation must therefore be strengthened.
in writing. since there is a balance between the social and economic aspects of the steel industry, but also the workers, i have agreed to the request. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution because in the next few years a clean reindustrialisation of europe must be promoted. we need an industry in the european union based on innovation and employment. one of the greatest challenges of the next few years will be to bring new, promising industries to europe. the basis for this is the european steel industry. as a linzer, i myself come from a steel region. steel is synonymous with growth, innovation and employment and has always played an important role in the european economy. a functioning industry is a prerequisite for growth in europe. the outsourcing of industrial jobs abroad leads to the loss of important jobs and increases the risk of a decline in the quality of products. in addition, it is important to reduce cheap imports from countries with low social and environmental standards. this motion for a resolution takes account of the social and environmental components as well as the economic aspects. the resolution is therefore to be welcomed.
in writing. the proposal for a holistic eu approach to migration has not received my support. some of the topics covered have not been fully considered and require further review by the committee responsible. the situation in the mediterranean is tense, but hasty decisions will not help to ease it.
in writing. i voted for the resolution. a holistic approach to migration is the only way to respond to the challenge that the eu is currently facing in terms of immigration. migration flows are a structural problem within the eu. the control of external borders and asylum policy have a major impact on the human rights of migrants, and the situation in the mediterranean is a daily reminder to us all. we therefore urge that a new strategy on legal migration be launched. in this context, i would strongly recommend that the austrian government's proposal for a distribution based on the principle of solidarity be considered.
in writing. the situation in the mediterranean is extremely tragic because of the victims who have been deliberately put at risk, especially by traffickers and smugglers, and have had to pay for this with their lives. however, the strategy mentioned here, especially the possibility of further legal immigration, is to be rejected as it does not solve the problem in principle. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations.
in writing. i voted for the resolution. a holistic eu approach to migration is urgently needed, because the longer we do not respond adequately, the more people die in the mediterranean. we cannot stand by and watch people in desperation fall into the hands of smugglers and drown right outside our borders. the demands, such as the call for solidarity in the distribution of refugees among the member states, are urgently needed steps to achieve a rapid eu holistic approach. at the same time, there is a need to ensure long-term financing. the competent authorities and organisations must be provided by the member states with sufficient resources for their operations. we also need a different policy for africa and the middle east. it is necessary to develop new forms of policy towards countries of origin and a political strategy for europe, north-south. we must react and find solutions quickly to the dramatic situation.
mr president, we are not talking about something new, but we still all look surprised. the cia started torturing people in 2001, and in 2006 we discovered that the agency was also responsible for the illegal detention and transfer of prisoners in europe. besides being a terrible human rights violation, this in fact created a vicious circle, giving the terrorists one more reason to continue their fight and their propaganda. now that the us senate has come up with this report it is time that we all put the spotlight on things that have happened inside the european union. eu member states are not innocent, as my colleagues sophia in ’t veld and cecilia wikström mentioned. many eu member states were aware of the cia’s practices; some actually tolerated, if not supported them. as has already been mentioned, poland has finally admitted it; others are still fighting the claims. the eu should also follow the us example and investigate the level of participation. practices like those we have just heard about are unworthy of the european union. i therefore call on the member states to set up national parliamentary inquiries in order to establish the extent of the involvement in or knowledge of cia torture.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. freedom is the foundation of the western community of values, and protecting it is a priority for any state that feels it belongs to it. there is no doubt that in certain situations and under certain conditions restrictions on these rights may also be necessary. 9/11 was one of those situations. the cia report unfortunately confirmed the concerns of many at the time that these measures would not be merely designed to be proportionate and appropriate, but would be excessive and would eventually turn into the opposite. there was a paradigm shift in western security policy: more control, more surveillance, more repression. at times it seems that the west is about to enter a permanent state of emergency. with little success, by the way. the threat of terrorism has increased rather. a german magazine said at the time: "perhaps this was osama bin laden's greatest triumph: that america now stands as a state of lawlessness". i think we have to agree with that, but add that the majority in the us senate's handling of these shameful events is just as impressive proof that the us does not want to be a state of lawlessness. this is an important piece of knowledge. but this knowledge should not lead us to become complacent and self-righteous. we must instead continue to work on the critical points, particularly as regards the role of individual member states of the european union. crime must be punished as such in court basta! that is the mandate given to us in this report.
in writing. suspicions of corruption against acp politicians, mass arrests of journalists, new laws incompatible with european values and disregard for workers' and trade union rights - all this has become political routine in turkey under the acp government! just a few days ago, 24 journalists critical of the government were arrested in a nationwide raid president erdoğan has once again shut the press up! i condemn in the strongest terms these methods of intimidation and call for the release of all journalists wrongfully detained. europe must give an unequivocal answer to the restriction of press freedom. i would also like to speak on soma. two weeks ago, half a year after the mining accident that killed over 300 people, 2,800 miners were fired by text message. the company that operated the mine was unable to pay wages. this is an unprecedented approach, which is a violation of workers' rights. the turkish trade union demands that the mine be returned to public ownership and continued operation, but there is no initiative from the government. there are almost no other employment opportunities in the region. once again, profits were privatized and losses were socialized at the expense of society.
in writing. i too condemn the current developments in turkey. the actions of the security forces on sunday once again show that the turkish government cares neither about fundamental values nor the rule of law. we must not forget that these actions are only the latest step in a long-running campaign against the press, the opposition and unpopular officials. in december 2013, police and prosecutors carried out judicial raids and arrests of acp government members as part of corruption investigations. as of july 2014, the police officers and judges involved have been transferred, arrested or otherwise silenced. the work of non-governmental organisations is also being hampered. kimse yok mu, a non-governmental organisation with un consultative status, has been banned from collecting donations since october 2014 and its accounts have been temporarily closed without a court order. the turkish government is not impressed by the contrary order of the turkish council of state, the highest administrative court. if an international ngo is so hampered in its work, one can only imagine what happens to smaller ngos. under erdoğan, turkey is threatening to abandon the path of the rule of law, pluralist democracy and fundamental rights. as a community of european values, we must demand that the turkish constitution be respected and that human rights be respected.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are debating today the third association of a former cis state this year, the beautiful georgia. the country has made considerable progress in recent years, for example in the field of internal security. in my comments on this association, we also stressed georgia's active commitment to freedom and democracy. but what about democracy in this house, in our parliament? a colleague comes in and polemizes in a nasty way against people who allow themselves to have a different opinion. this is a matter of concern to the european parliament, and those who listen to the citizens know full well that they are tired of enlargement and association. our aim - back to the facts - should be to intervene in the region, to act with restraint and to build peace, rather than issuing blank cheques all the time, as the financial disaster in ukraine will prove to us. the european union is not a party to the gatt, but a party to the gatt, and it is not a party to the gatt. we overestimate ourselves, it is irresponsible and unforgivable to the citizens.
mr president, as my green colleagues have already said, the greens support and welcome this association agreement, especially because it is something supported by opposition and government in georgia and also almost 70% of the population is in favour. i think this consensus in favour of the eu could pave the way to defusing the current polarisation that we have in the political landscape and create the necessary conditions for a constructive dialogue between majority and minority forces, hopefully also doing away with the potential use of the judicial system to fight political opponents. i am glad the resolution includes a denunciation of the violent outbreaks of islamophobia and homophobia that have taken place in the country, and the failure of the prosecution services and the judiciary to bring the perpetrators to justice in an effective way. let me end by asking the commission one question: will you assist and monitor closely the georgian authorities in their investment programme on hydropower plants, urging them to comply fully with eu standards and norms, in particular to the environmental impact assessment of larger plants?
a writer. - mr president, i have to go. since the 2013 presidential election, the situation in venezuela has deteriorated dramatically. the situation is becoming increasingly difficult for opposition groups. arresting is commonplace, and the arrest of opposition leader leopoldo lópez is the most spectacular case. the un high commissioner has expressed to the public his deep concern about the situation and has noted systematic violations of human rights. the country is divided. this rift runs through the families, and it is indeed high time that the current government of venezuela ends this unworthy chapter and begins a peaceful dialogue with the opposition. the european union must also take the necessary steps to ensure that the rights of the palestinian people are respected and that the palestinian people are not subject to any form of repression.
a writer. - mr president, i have to go. in the course of the last few years, some of us have had the opportunity to meet biram dah obid, the tireless fighter against slavery, which has been officially abolished in his country, mauritania, but is still practised. as the son of former slaves, he is committed to a modern, democratic mauritania that respects human rights, not only on the international stage but above all in his homeland. as part of an educational campaign to educate people about rights, he and his fellow activists were arrested. he is accused of belonging to an illegal organization and could even be punished with death. we must do everything possible to ensure that these people are released immediately and that mauritania is unambiguously committed to its obligations under international treaties. i hope that this resolution will also open a dialogue with the mauritanian government to put an end to this situation.
a writer. - mr president, i have to go. we are dealing with the human rights situation in the region for the third time in a short time. we are always hearing that it may be in the interest of stability to suspend human rights. that is a distorted and dangerous view of things. stability can only be achieved if the rule of law prevails and human rights are upheld, as called for in the 'sudan call' signed by a wide range of groups at the beginning of december. dr. amin mekki medani, a highly respected former politician and human rights activist, was also present. we call for the immediate release of dr medani and we call on sudan to finally seek dialogue with the country's constructive forces.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as we heard today, dr. medani was arrested by sudanese authorities in early december. the reason, as far as i know, is not clear, probably because he signed the sudan call. this is an initiative to bring peace and democracy to sudan. i think it is particularly tragic that a 76-year-old man should be arrested for advocating democracy. we need not look so far as sudan, because on 14 december this year 31 people were arrested in turkey, many of them journalists. this approach of turkey is particularly remarkable to me when you consider that the european taxpayer pays €1 billion annually - i repeat: €1 billion annually - to turkey as pre-accession aid, totalling €4.9 billion since 2007. however, no value added is observed from these payments. on the contrary, it seems that turkey is moving further and further away from our values.
i have to say, madam president, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in the mediterranean and a comprehensive approach to migration by the eu. a holistic approach to migration is the only way to respond to the challenge that the european union is currently facing in terms of immigration. migration flows are a structural problem within the european union. the control of external borders and asylum policy have a major impact on the human rights of migrants, and the situation in the mediterranean is a daily reminder of this. we therefore urgently need to launch a new strategy on legal migration. in this context, i recommend that the austrian government's proposal for a distribution based on the principle of solidarity be considered.
in writing. i support the proposal to reject the delegated regulation, as the european union must prevent products from iuu fishing from entering the european market at all costs. the philippines, as a non-cooperating country in this respect, should not benefit from any customs preference. i would also point out that human trafficking offenses also contribute to the philippines' suspension of asp+ status until further notice.
in writing. i have agreed to the proposal to reject the delegated regulation as the european union must prevent products from iuu fishing from entering the european market at all costs. therefore, the philippines should not benefit from any tariff preferences in this respect. it should also be noted that human trafficking offences also contribute to the philippines' suspension of asp+ status until further notice.
in writing. i reject an association agreement with georgia for the same reasons as the one with the republic of moldova. in times of economic difficulties, it is not advisable to pump money from the european union's already tight budget into countries to increase their competitiveness in the european single market without bringing about rapid improvements. georgia, like ukraine, needs long-term assistance, which we cannot afford at this time. the political aspect of rapprochement with georgia must also be taken into account. as the example of moldova shows, an association agreement with georgia can lead to russia imposing massive sanctions against that country. the union would also have to be liable for the economic losses caused by this.
in writing. instead of looking after its own interests, the eu is making another mistake with an association agreement with georgia, which highlights the shortsightedness but also the ignorance of the eu's crisis. the money now available for georgia is again lacking in the european single market and in regions hard hit by the crisis. the intention is clear once again in foreign policy matters, namely to confront russia. i have rejected this agreement in all my resolve, because it further strains diplomatic and economic relations with the russian federation and because the money to buy another barrel without a bottom would be more urgently needed in europe.
in writing. i reject an association agreement with georgia for the same reasons as the one with the republic of moldova. in times of economic difficulties, it is not advisable to pump money from the european union's already tight budget into countries to increase their competitiveness in the european single market without bringing about rapid improvements. georgia, like ukraine, needs long-term assistance, which we cannot afford at this time. the political aspect of rapprochement with georgia must also be taken into account. as the example of moldova shows, an association agreement with georgia can lead to russia imposing massive sanctions against that country. the union would also have to be liable for the economic losses caused by this.
in writing. instead of looking after its own interests, the eu is making another mistake with an association agreement with georgia, which highlights the shortsightedness but also the ignorance of the eu's crisis. the money now available for georgia is again lacking in the european single market and in regions hard hit by the crisis. the intention is clear once again in foreign policy matters, namely to confront russia. i have rejected this agreement in all my resolve, because it further strains diplomatic and economic relations with the russian federation and because the money to buy another barrel without a bottom would be more urgently needed in europe.
