member of the commission. − madam president, again i will be very brief. i think there are two issues that have been raised. one is from those who have argued that there is lack of ambition, and the other is the test cycle. you will recall that before the agreement between the parliament and the council on 147 grams was reached back in 2011, the commission had already proposed 135 grams. but we also knew how challenging it was to reach that agreement, so two years later we did not think that the time was really right to try to go for anything but 147 grams, which will, hopefully, be confirmed here tomorrow. of course we are preparing the post-2020 regime, as i mentioned. this is also very visible in the commission’s declaration, and this will also include finalising the new world light-duty test procedure this year and implementing it in eu law. as some have been mentioning here, there is a challenge with the new test cycle. we must implement it, and we are working very hard to achieve that so that when we look at the post-2020 regime, we should also have the new test cycle there. so thank you very much for the support and for the result. once again, thank you very much to the rapporteur. i hope that we will have a solid result tomorrow.
in writing. the co2 emission guidelines for light commercial vehicles should be compatible with the eu's long-term climate objectives in order to allow for coherent european environmental legislation. however, it should be borne in mind that while the automotive industry needs certainty for long-term investment in environmentally friendly technologies and therefore welcomes the setting of benchmarks for 2020, it is not appropriate to set benchmarks beyond this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. it is therefore good that the commission should review these objectives. in return, legislation should be based on fair information from industry. it is also positive that the incentives should be maintained, because creating incentives for sustainable technologies benefits not only the automotive industry and ultimately consumers, but also the industrial location of europe. the commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the permissible sound power level of towed vehicles is a very important one.
i am replacing our shadow rapporteur, mr bas eickhout, who unfortunately did not arrive in time in strasbourg because of transport problems. ccs is not getting off the ground at the moment, and there are reasons for that. it is an expensive technique, which is met with great public resistance because of the necessary risks involved. and with ccs as an excuse, energy producers can continue to build the dirty coal plants that we're stuck with for the next 40 years. and ccs lets us acknowledge that is not necessary at all to decarbonize the energy sector. we'd be much better off putting our money, our time, our energy into the energy forms of the future. invest in it . i am very pleased that the commission has taken this step. the report by mr davies and mr ford calls on the member states to provide financial support to ccs. it indicates that member states can bear part of the risk and thus basically says that the taxpayers will have to pay for the damage in the event of an accident. it also called on the commission to develop the ccs objectives within the 2030 framework for climate and energy policy. if these points are upheld, the greens will vote against this report. instead of subsidizing a risky and expensive technology, we should actually phase out the use of fossil fuels. this can be achieved by setting a sufficiently high price for co2 and by establishing a so-called emission performance standard, a co2 standard for all existing and new power stations. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, i call for support for the green amendments which (1) call on the commission to introduce an eps standard for existing and new power stations and (2) make it clear that there should be no public support for ccs in the energy sector. green amendments nos 2 and 7 deal with a number of specific industrial sectors. we must admit that for industrial sectors such as steel and cement it is a different story. in the production of steel, in the production of cement, co2 is a byproduct. to combat this dangerous climate change, industry must also reduce its co2 emissions to almost zero. that is impossible at the moment without ccs. we recognize that. but that's why we need to invest in beautiful technologies, in effective technologies where those industrial sectors like the cement industry, like the steel industry, develop technologies that reduce carbon emissions. so, ladies and gentlemen, let us invest in energy saving, in renewable energy sources, rather than in ccs.
yes, we are in the final months before the european elections. and fear will not convince the citizen of his vote, especially those faced with a fundamental choice. scotland is planning an independence referendum on 18 september and catalonia will decide on its future on 9 november. europe must respond positively to these changes. politically inspired and legally unfounded statements, designed to sow fear, can be missed as a toothache, such as that of president-in-office herman van rompuy in mid-december. he claimed that catalonia as a new state would de facto fall outside the eu. this does not help the european project, but on the contrary, it undermines the credibility of millions of citizens who choose democracy, self-determination and european involvement. it would be a great honour for the representatives of the european institutions to stop sticking their heads in the sand for democratic and peaceful processes in europe. it is up to the people of catalonia and scotland to decide their own future.
daily subsistence should be fair. although food is safer than ever, consumer distrust is growing. the risk of fraud is greatest when the chances of getting a deal are small and the potential profit is large. that is why i called last year for a focus on better enforcement of laws, more controls and tougher sanctions. the shortening of the food chain by promoting regional and seasonal products, as is done in flanders, is also important. however, fraud cases are fortunately exceptions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is unacceptable that the misconduct of a few should cast a negative light on the whole food industry. companies work every day to put quality and safe food on our plates. that is what our resolution should have stressed. i am not convinced of all the requests for more additional labelling. there's already a lot of legal potential. realism is in order here: the commission has also proposed that the labelling of foodstuffs be subject to a system of quality controls. we must also beware of administrative burdens which make it difficult for businesses, especially the many smes.
for the greens/efa group mr president, madam president, i would like to start by saying how surprised i am. my surprise because i didn't expect this from lithuania. we could say that it is a small state, a young democracy, and therefore a somewhat chaotic presidency. no, not at all. i was extremely pleasantly surprised to see the competence of your teams, but also their ability to be a force for proposals, when there were difficulties between parliament and the council. in each case, at least those i had to deal with - often women - had the ability to make proposals that helped to unblock the situation. i wanted to thank you for that. this is the second time you've surprised me. the first time was when lithuania appointed algirdas šemeta as european commissioner. he's probably not a very flamboyant commissioner. he is a rather discreet person, but he is in charge of an extremely difficult matter: taxation, a matter on which, as everyone knows, each state has the right of veto. your commissioner is someone who is able, relentlessly, to make proposals in such a way as to move forward the tax files which are extremely complicated files. i would also like to thank lithuania. so it surprised us twice. i am proud to be a european alongside lithuania. i come from a small country too. that said, i would like to return to three points from this presidency which may not be of concern to the lithuanian presidency but which are of concern to the council. the first is budget. the multiannual financial perspective which has been adopted is a financial perspective in regression. it is a reactionary budget in which - i am sorry to say this - not only the amounts decided but also the content of the budget are a choice of priorities for the twentieth century. all the elements which are really promising in the budget for the next seven years have been subject to adjustment variables, downwards of course, in an overall declining budget. i am thinking, of course, of research policy. i am thinking of the second pillar of the common agricultural policy. i think that this budget is unacceptable and that is why we have not accepted it. secondly, in the negotiations on the new rules for dealing with banking crises, bank restructuring - the so-called brrd directive - i was very unpleasantly surprised to see the council insert, almost in a whisper, a provision which will allow the states to continue to recapitalise their banks, which are supposedly not in difficulty, supposedly sound banks, with public money. i must say that, despite all the talk, the preference within the european union today is to make the taxpayer pay rather than the creditors of the banks because the use of private creditors could destabilise the markets. but of course, to make the taxpayer pay is not destabilizing! it's not systemically dangerous! all this because the taxpayers are obviously captives while the investors - because they are still called that - that is to say the owners of capital, they can of course go from one place to another with their money. this attitude still exists and so, despite the progress of the brrd directive, it will still be possible for a state to recapitalise its banks with public money. what we should really be looking at as a last resort is unfortunately still something that some people would like to see generalized. the last element - and i think this is the most serious - is the question of the banking union. i have heard you, mr barroso, and once again i do not agree with you. we have not stopped this vicious circle between the big banks and their sovereign states. today the so-called solution put forward by the council is not a solution. there is no pooling of financial effort to deal with banking crises between member states. everyone is responsible for their own home. there is no commitment from the european stability mechanism to recapitalise banks directly. and the decision mechanism that you propose for the banking union for the restructuring of banks, is a decision mechanism of a complexity that would probably have made einstein lose his latin. it's an unworkable mechanism. it's an illegible mechanism. it is a mechanism which will not make possible what mario draghi - who is not one of my friends - is calling for, namely the possibility of putting a bank into resolution over the course of a weekend. so the solution you've advocated is not a solution. we started negotiations on this last week. i would ask my colleagues here in the european parliament and the commission, please, to stand up and stop this unhealthy deal of the european council. i know, madam president, that you are not the only one responsible for this, but i would really like to ask the council to reconsider its attitude in this matter.
i should like to take this opportunity to express my sincere thanks and congratulations to the lithuanian presidency. i would also like to return to the vilnius summit, the non-signing of the association agreement with ukraine. the current ukrainian leaders may indeed have abandoned their european dream, but a large part of the population still cherishes that dream and we must not, of course, abandon them. i was in kiev with some of my colleagues and witnessed the maidan, and what is unique about this protest movement is that it is a civil movement, that it is civil society that mobilizes and organizes. the non-signing of the association agreement gave them cause to express a deeper dissatisfaction. this movement aims at far-reaching reforms, at a systemic shift: the rules of the game themselves must change with the help of the union. the leaders of the maidan realize that the street protest, which is still going on, must lead to a political solution sooner or later. they're asking for a real dialogue. the current majority and opposition must be involved, but also civil society, which is looking to the european union, which should play a role in these negotiations - and i use my speaking time to express the sighs of the leadership of that euromaidan, with which i had the opportunity to speak at length. i am counting on the european union to take on this role, because we owe it to the people.
mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, it is important for europe to keep the protection and respect of consumer rights in focus. the report by robert rochefort is a step in the right direction. the only fears i will raise - and other colleagues have raised them - are motivated by the fact that there is a lot of talk about recovery tools. and one of them, and not the least, is consumption. it is true that it must be promoted and, of course, this means that the public's confidence in the market must be restored. the only concern i have is budgetary because the response we have given is a budget cut to accomplish these missions. so you're going to tell me that we need to set an example by tightening our belts in this recession, like everyone else, like all institutions. i will answer that if we do not invest in the tools to overcome the crisis, in particular by strengthening citizens' confidence in the market, it will be difficult to overcome it. i will take two figures: we spent 7 cents per year per european citizen on this whole policy, and we are going down to 5 cents per year per citizen. it is not a good sign, but the rapporteur can do nothing about it.
in writing. we did not find that the complaints against ms comi were worth lifting immunity.
in writing. in a period of economic recession and the resulting lack of budgetary resources, but also of increasingly fierce global competition, it is vital for the european union to improve its innovation capacity in a sustainable way. the past has shown that, often, without a comprehensive overall strategy, eu investments in general, including those in research, development and innovation (rdi), do not deliver the desired results: the range of beneficiaries was too wide, the decisions of the political world were too far removed from the real situation on the ground, and the connections between the actors involved and the levels of the administration were insufficient. in the face of the delicate budgetary and economic situation, broad support for many sectors, often unrelated to each other, according to the 'springboard' principle, is no longer feasible. it is now particularly important to be careful when choosing the objectives to be supported. successful collaboration between all actors at all levels will be crucial in this respect.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the detailed rules for the application of the procedure for parliament's consent in matters for which the treaties require it. the approval procedure was introduced by the 1986 single european act in two areas: association agreements and agreements governing the accession of new member states. secondly, all the amendments to the treaties since then have extended its scope. today, under the treaty of lisbon on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), the approval procedure is a 'special legislative procedure' within the meaning of article 289 (2). the treaties define precisely the scope of the approval procedure.
in writing. − with this new framework for vans, we continue to set the tone worldwide. by 2017, newly sold vans will be allowed to emit on average up to 175 grams of co2 per kilometre, and by 2020 up to 147 grams. this clear framework will ensure that co2 emissions are significantly reduced. the good news is that there is a new test cycle, the world light duty test procedure, established under the un framework, which better reflects the consumption of vans in real driving conditions. that too is a fundamental improvement. if local authorities and companies such as the post office, internet and courier companies equip their own fleets with only the most environmentally friendly, preferably electric vans, this market will become more sustainable much faster. we have every interest in encouraging this local to the fullest with all kinds of incentives for clean vans.
in writing. − this report offered a very good opportunity to strengthen european climate policy and to stimulate innovation in the automotive sector. instead of seizing this opportunity, it has become a weak compromise. the proposal was weakened considerably in the negotiations with the member states and the traditional groups in this parliament - christian democrats, conservatives, liberals and also some social democrats - accepted the weak compromise. the targets are far from ambitious and only confirm previously established limits for 2020. but more ambitious co2 emission limits are the most sensible choice, both economically and ecologically. tighter emission limits would have made a significant contribution to europe's climate objectives and could have resulted in significant savings for consumers through reduced fuel consumption (estimated at around €5000 per vehicle). nor is there any incentive for innovation and employment in this way. the current limits are too high in relation to actual co2 emissions and no ambitious pathway for co2 emission reductions is being set. this report is in the interests of producers who are sticking to old production techniques and not thinking ahead, and it has no regard for consumers or the climate. i am voting against this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text. in 2011, the european parliament and the council adopted regulation (eu) no 510/2011 which aims to reduce co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles. article 13 (1) of that regulation requires the commission to confirm the feasibility of the medium- to long-term target of 147 g co2/km and to define the modalities for reaching that target. by adopting its proposal com ((2012) 394) on 11 july 2012, the commission responded to the request of the co-legislators and confirmed that the 147g target set out in article 1 (2) of the abovementioned regulation was feasible. i believe that this long-term target of 147g co2/km, applicable from 2020, should not be changed. this is an ambitious target that was agreed only in 2011, less than two years before the commission's proposal was adopted, confirming its feasibility. i therefore fully support the commission's proposal, confirming that the 2020 target is technically achievable. i am opposed to any change to the existing long-term target of 147g co2/km.
in writing. - i voted today in favour of the rochefort report on the consumer protection programme for the period 2014-2020 because consumers will certainly be aware of this. the aim is to finance various types of action aimed at improving consumer protection and allowing consumer organisations to play a more active role. the four main objectives are product safety through effective market control, consumer information, strengthening and enforcement of consumer rights. the european parliament has improved the commission's proposal by making several adjustments, such as improving product tracking, emphasising the development of consumer organisations, greater transparency and sharing good examples.
in writing. it is important for europe to keep the protection and respect of consumer rights in focus. however, i have some concerns as the member responsible for the internal market and consumer protection. there is a lot of talk about the tools of recovery and one of them, not least, is consumption. and it is true, we must promote consumption, which means that we must restore the citizens' confidence in the market. but the response from the institutions is a budget cut to accomplish our mission. you'll tell me we're setting an example by tightening our belts during this recession. i will answer you that if we do not invest in the tools to get us out of the crisis, we will never get out of it!
in writing. - european consumers have a right to good protection. the european parliament in general and my group and myself in particular have always made this a priority. in 2006, i was the rapporteur for the previous multiannual programme and i am pleased that the efforts and ambitions of that time are being continued in this multiannual programme. i am thinking in particular of the two priorities i put forward at the time, namely the attention to vulnerable consumers and to the new member states with a less long tradition in consumer protection. the report reiterates the importance of a high level of consumer protection in the european union and enables consumers to assert their rights more effectively. with clear and realistic objectives - improving product safety, raising consumer awareness, strengthening the right of redress and enforcing consumer rights across borders - we are taking another step forward for european consumers. it is also appropriate to allocate a part of the multiannual budget to consumer policy, since consumer confidence is a major contributor to the prospects for sustainable growth. that is why i am voting for this report.
in writing. this includes ensuring that the european parliament is duly associated with the preparation and implementation of delegated acts and that the delegation of power is tacitly extended for periods of five years, as well as extending the period for objections to draft delegated acts from two to four months and amending the rules on the application of the written procedure. we have urged that all references to committee procedure be deleted from the future single aligned cmo regulation and suggested that such provisions be inserted directly into the amending regulation. this will reflect the changes in the application of the written procedure provided for in the omnibus trade acts. in addition, it will be possible to ensure that the right of review of the implementing acts necessary for the management of the quota system referred to in that regulation remains within the competence of the international trade committee.
in writing. i voted for the moreira report. the commission proposal refers, in the case covered by the three regulations, to the committee procedure provided for in the future aligned regulation on the common organization of the markets in agricultural products (single cmo regulation). your rapporteur proposes that this reference be deleted and that a provision on committee procedure be inserted in each of the amended regulations. in this way, the modified application of the written procedure, induced by the omnibus laws, can be guaranteed. furthermore, the three amended regulations, and not the single cmo regulation, will be the basic acts for future implementing acts. therefore, the right of review of these implementing acts will remain with the committee on international trade and not with the committee on agriculture. your rapporteur is firmly convinced that this is the right way to monitor the implementation of legislation in the field of the common commercial policy, based on article 207 of the feu treaty.
in writing. i welcome the main elements of the commission's proposal, in particular its aims of simplification and improvement. the proposal for a regulation simplifies and updates regulation (eec) no 1601/91, which currently governs aromatised wine products and which, in the light of technical innovation and the ever-changing expectations of consumers, is to be repealed and replaced by a new text. i can only support such action by the commission to modernise a system which has so far ensured the smooth functioning of the aromatised wine market, but which must adapt to the evolution of the regulations in this field. i support the general approach that, within the text itself, the aim is to harmonize the regulation under consideration with the evolution of the normative framework towards a wine quality policy, to adapt it to the rules of the cmo and to bring it into line with the feu treaty.
in writing. - i voted with the greens/efa group against the davis report because it promotes a carbon dioxide storage (ccs) technique which is inefficient. it's literally an end of the pipeline approach. the greenhouse gas co2 is literally stored underground, with the argument that it does not contribute to the greenhouse effect. but ccs is not going to get off the ground: it's an expensive technique that faces great public resistance because of the risks involved. moreover, ccs as an excuse allows energy producers to continue to build fossil fuel power plants. the davis report, calling on member states to provide financial support for ccs, suggests that member states can share the risk of making citizens pay for the damage caused by an accident, and calls for the eu to include ccs in the 2030 climate and energy policy agenda. ccs is not necessary at all to make the energy sector less carbon-intensive. european money and attention can therefore be much better spent on the energy forms of the future: wind and solar energy, geothermal energy and energy conservation. we need to phase out the use of fossil fuels. this can be achieved by setting a sufficiently high price for co2 and by setting a co2 standard for all existing and new power stations.
in writing. i am in full support of the text. five years ago, many hoped that the european union would become the world leader in the deployment of carbon capture and storage (ccs). the council not only endorsed the idea of putting up to 12 csc demonstration projects into operation by 2015, but also approved a proposal by the european parliament for a financing mechanism (ner300) which appeared to be able to ensure sufficient public sector support to ensure the implementation of the projects. all for a good cause. if global co2 emissions are to be substantially reduced by 2050 at lower cost, then the deployment of ccs technologies will be essential. this deployment is necessary to reduce emissions from large industrial installations and can allow the continued use of fossil fuels while significantly reducing the impact on global warming.
in writing. − ehealth has great potential to improve the efficiency of healthcare, improve the quality of life of patients and tap into innovative techniques. despite the progress made, e-health is still too often the music of the future. there are important obstacles: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the community institutions and bodies and on the proposal for a directive on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the community institutions and bodies. with the new multiannual plan 2012-2020, the european commission wants to remove existing obstacles and focus on greater interoperability, research and innovation. the european parliament supports the approach of the european commission. the reference to subsidiarity and the explicit recognition of the role of the competent authorities in the member states in the field of health care are extremely important. the resolution of the european parliament clearly states that ehealth offers opportunities for decentralised health policy. the european commission is also invited to involve all regional competent authorities in the ehealth network. finally, the text stresses that the issue of interoperability must take account of the linguistic diversity in the eu.
in writing. in order to ensure that citizens and healthcare professionals have confidence in online health applications and are convinced of their benefits, legal certainty must be guaranteed. data protection, confidentiality, privacy and accountability are some of the issues that need to be addressed to ensure the success of the implementation of ehealth services. it is also essential, when these projects are being set up, to take account first of all of the interests of the patient, which is our main objective, namely to improve the quality of care for the citizens of the union, without forgetting the cultural differences between the member states in the context of health care.
in writing. this afternoon, parliament voted for more food security. since the arrival of horse lasagna, consumers no longer necessarily trust the quality of what they have on their plate. we want financial sanctions to be put in place to deter fraudsters, a food fraud network and a clear indication of the origin of meat, among other things, in the dishes. those who lie to consumers must be severely punished. other
in writing. - in february last year, many europeans were shocked by the so-called horse meat scandal. many consumers expect us to prevent such situations from occurring in the future. food safety has been a priority for myself and for this parliament for many years. food is a basic need: people need to be able to trust what they're buying and eating. in europe, there is already good legislation on food safety and labelling, and tracing is working properly. but there are still not enough instruments specifically to combat food fraud. there must be a clear and common definition of what we mean by food fraud. we need effective tools to combat fraud: the commission has also proposed a new food fraud team, a strengthening of the food and veterinary office (fvo) and better cooperation between eu member states through europol. and most of all: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. only in this way can we put an end to this kind of practice and reassure european consumers. that is why i support this report.
in writing. − blackmail and fraud involving fake statutes and letterbox companies constitute a double attack on the functioning of the internal market. companies that follow the rules suffer greatly from unfair competition. illegal workers are often exposed to enormous financial and health risks. unfortunately, the problem has only grown in recent years, especially in the construction, transport and food sectors. more effective labour inspections are therefore urgently needed for fair competition and are in the interests of both employers and employees. this should be done through automated digital data exchange between member states, targeted attention to vulnerable sectors, liability mechanisms in subcontracting chains and improved training of labour inspectors. the european commission must now do all it can to support national efforts through new and modern instruments such as a european social security card.
in writing. - i support this report on strengthening labour inspection and improving working conditions in europe. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european social fund. laws only work if there's oversight of their implementation. a well-developed international cooperation is crucial and that is precisely what this report aims to achieve. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, fraudulent activity and fraudulent practices. they undermine social security and leave member states with budget deficits, but also with dissatisfied workers. we support this proposal because our amendments strengthen the text. we made the penalties more burdensome than the profits that one makes by circumventing the legislation. we want at least one inspector for every 10,000 workers, a target which is also set by the international labour organization. the inspectors must be able to carry out their work in complete freedom. it is incomprehensible that the commission should have tried to limit the checks because they would be discriminatory against foreign firms! i think it is more important that workers are not exploited, that working conditions are improved and that the internal market is fair!
in writing. the economic and social changes of recent decades have had a considerable impact on the world of work. the globalisation of the economy has weakened traditionally safe and fair labour relations. outsourcing, outsourcing, precariousness, work intensification and lack of job security are all damaging the quality of jobs in europe. this erosion of labour relations is accompanied by a lack of respect for labour law and workers' rights. undeclared work and the shadow economy are increasingly common problems in the european union. the parallel economy limits the development opportunities of society, and undeclared work creates a category of workers who are marginalized and very vulnerable financially and socially. in the absence of a guaranteed income and social protection, undeclared workers have difficulty meeting their basic needs, such as finding housing, and are unable to plan for their families and their future.
in writing. the european union could provide a 'framework of reference' with general guidance on basic principles and good practice to help guide decision-making at national and company level on ftps. in my view, there are questions about the effectiveness of ftt schemes in the case of transnational companies operating in several member states of the union, in particular in the absence of common tax rules. the commission could launch research to identify possible methods to facilitate cross-border tft, including through an optional '29-day scheme'.
in writing. - the crisis is increasing the number of selfemployed. other new forms of employment are also on the rise. these occupational groups also deserve a decent level of social protection. parliament wants to reduce the gap in the labour market between fixed and flexible work by improving access to social security for all workers and self-employed. the so-called 'flexicurity' model, flexible labour markets combined with a high level of job security, has been implemented in many member states in recent years in a very unilateral manner. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the unemployed. for this group, there is often a lack of affordable, accessible disability, pension or parental leave schemes. the commission should examine the effects of flexibilization measures on the labour market on social protection in europe. and it is urgent and imperative that member states pay extra attention to vulnerable groups. all forms of discrimination in the labour market must be tackled. young people must be paid a decent wage, including for internships, and women must be paid the same as men. member states should provide for an appropriate minimum income to combat poverty and social exclusion. that is why i supported this report with great conviction.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text. social protection is at the heart of the european social model. its main function is to promote social inclusion and social justice, protect incomes and ensure high-quality education and health care services for all. social protection policy is the responsibility of each member state, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. however, at eu level, an open method of coordination, a voluntary process of political cooperation based on the acceptance of common objectives and indicators, has been put in place. one of the main objectives of social protection is to increase equity and efficiency in services, while promoting social inclusion and cohesion, which are essential pillars of inclusive and sustainable growth and poverty reduction. these objectives are naturally rooted in the fundamental values of the european union.
in writing. this own-initiative report examines the state of play of the preparation of the member states for the next round of cohesion policy funding. the document refers to the comments received in the member states and shows the extent to which the member states are prepared for the next programming period, as well as several of the methods used at national and regional level. the rapporteur welcomes any further discussion of this report. it is clear that national, local and regional budgets are under increasing pressure in the current economic climate. as a result, cohesion policy funding is becoming increasingly important for many member states and regions. this is all the more true as it is necessary to ensure that money is spent more efficiently, so that citizens can fully benefit from european funding. in this context, it is essential that member states and regions take the necessary steps to prepare the partnership agreements and operational programmes in an efficient and timely manner so as to be ready to implement the financing as soon as possible, once agreement has been reached on the regulation laying down common provisions.
in writing. - i fully support the report by mr prodi which makes a number of proposals to tackle the problem of plastic waste in our environment. global plastic production has increased dramatically in recent decades. production has increased from 1.5 million tonnes in 1950 to 245 million tonnes in 2008, of which 60 million tonnes in europe. plastic waste often contains dangerous pollutants. it can persist in the environment for hundreds of years and have a negative impact on our ecosystem and our food chain. of the 25 million pieces of plastic waste produced in 2008, 50% was buried, 30% incinerated and 20% recycled. so there's still work to be done. i am therefore pleased that the report sets binding targets for the collection, sorting and recycling of plastic waste, and that it looks at the elimination of hazardous substances from both recycled plastics and new products. in addition, waste incineration is being discouraged, the packaging directive will be reviewed and work is being done to radically reduce and phase out single-use bags. this approach deserves our support.
in writing. our target of 75% recycled plastics by 2020, mandatory recycling criteria and specific labelling to facilitate sorting will help to start a discussion and give impetus to the deployment of more efficient and advanced waste stream management systems. this process will continue to be encouraged (provided that the objectives are met) by funding research and development activities on the improvement of recycling, collection and sorting techniques, as well as on advanced materials, in particular with regard to their inherent potential for reuse and sustainability.
in writing. the european parliament is debating today the concept of a 'regional quality label'. i see a clear potential here. europe has always supported rural and regional development in the past. but also in the new budget period 2014-2020, the eu is allocating eur 85 billion to this pillar of the agricultural policy. if we can use some of these resources to give added value to the identity of certain flemish regions, such as the pajottenland, where i come from, then we can also give a boost to local and regional producers. this is good for the preservation of the identity and the reputation of the region, and good for the local economy. as a marketing tool, the regional quality label complements the existing european quality labels and covers regional goods and services as well as foodstuffs. the quality label should thus be an investment in the long-term vitality of a region's competitiveness. a region that creates its own style of housing, with slogans that effectively express the region's identity and a logo that is instantly recognisable, is a step ahead. by helping to do so, europe is also supporting tourism and the local economy.
in writing. the current rural development policy already contains a number of tools that can be used to develop the quality of the territories. we are of course thinking in particular of the community initiative leader. thanks to the preparation of the next programming of the national rural development plans, it is now possible to generalize this community initiative to all territories as a complement to the multi-fund approach, which allows projects under several funds to be financed in the same territory, or even in a rural/urban and urban/coastal territory... it is also allowed to integrate thematic programmes into the eafrd operational programmes, which can mobilise more funds. in the light of this report, we think it is appropriate to commit very significant resources to strengthening territorial governance, the full value of which has been seen in the emergence of the resource and in the indispensable cooperation between the actors. the choice of strong measures, such as the current measures on animation, training, knowledge transfer, engineering or those present in the reform of the cap, must contribute to improving the organization and quality of the territories.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all recall some useful points to help us appreciate the importance of these interlinked issues. first, public procurement accounts for almost 20% of the eu's gdp and must therefore be used as a lever to foster sustainable and inclusive growth. in december 2011, commissioner barnier, and thus the commission, published two communications on the modernisation of public procurement, for both conventional and special sectors, in order to make procedures more efficient, simple, transparent and accessible to small and medium-sized enterprises. almost 2 500 amendments were tabled to the two directives for which i was and still am the rapporteur. eight parliamentary committees have issued an opinion and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has been working on the substance for a year and a half of negotiations, first within parliament and then in trilogue with the council and the commission. i may perhaps emphasize eight points which i think are essential. there's probably more. the first point concerns the strengthening and clarification of public-public cooperation under article 11. the negotiations on public-public cooperation were very successful, as for the first time the legislator codifies this cooperation by allowing a clear line to be drawn which excludes from the scope of the directive contracts between public authorities and entities with a limited share of private capital. new provisions in article 1 lay down the principle of free administration at all levels of government. it is up to them to decide whether, how and to what extent public interest tasks will be carried out but also in cooperation with other public authorities. the second point concerns general principles. the reference will now be to compliance with national directives and laws, of course, but also with collective agreements. this principle is articulated throughout the directive in such a way as to give a coherent structure guaranteeing respect for labour law and collective agreements in the place where work is carried out. finally, the commission put an end to the many abuses which had led to social and environmental dumping practices, thereby distorting the functioning of the internal market. the third point is a very important provision on subcontracting to prevent it from being used as a means of circumventing the rules on compliance with social and environmental criteria. the new rules on subcontracting impose an obligation on the economic operator to provide all information concerning the part of the contract which he subcontracts and information on subcontractors. in addition, this new article defines the principle of joint responsibility in the subcontracting chain, which member states may establish and strengthen. it should be noted that subcontracting is desirable because it provides an opportunity for small and medium-sized enterprises to participate in public procurement procedures. it just needs to be done under the right conditions. the fourth point concerns the most economically advantageous offer, which is a clear signal. this will now be the only award criterion, which will encourage the authorities to choose the quality and sustainability of public procurement and investment in the light of social, environmental and sustainability criteria, with price obviously remaining one of the criteria. the fifth point is abnormally low tenders, which will now have to be monitored by the authority and rejected if they contravene the general principles of respect for collective agreements and the rules on subcontracting and respect for the environment. the sixth point is the simplification which will be achieved, in particular by encouraging the use of the electronic procedure and self-certification (european single procurement document), which will no longer oblige companies to submit a priori annexes, often cumbersome, which will now be required of the successful tenderer. this is a crucial simplification. the seventh point concerns better access for small and mediumsized enterprises through a reduction in the turnover required to participate in a market and the provision to encourage the temporary grouping of small enterprises to better deal with the issue of public procurement. finally, social services are the subject of a specific title which aims to give them special importance. the directive ensures, in addition to the principles of high quality and inclusion, a balance between a streamlined procedure and the transparency of the award. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this reform is a crucial step towards harmonizing the internal market. our efforts are now moving in the right direction, towards the much-needed economic recovery, sustainable and innovative growth, respect for social rights and our environment. the task is not finished and it will be up to the member states to transpose the directives into national law. i hope they do so by remaining as faithful as possible to the principles that inspired them. i would like to conclude by saying that i do not forget the usual thanks, but i intend to use the two minutes i will be given at the end of the debate to thank the main actors in this directive.
the reporter asks for a blue card. - mr salvini, it is a shame to hear you in the chamber. why would you do that? because for a year and a half we have been working with colleagues frank engel, jürgen creutzmann, heide rühle, malcolm harbour, dennis de jong, all shadow speakers like you. and you're the only one we never saw at the meeting. so it's easy to say that they're just words! i'm not going. we have worked in the interests of small businesses, workers, healthy public procurement: how will he explain to his constituents that he is a slacker in this parliament? he's only on tv and never in the classroom, never in a meeting to work. it 's a shame . you are a slacker in this parliament, i tell you.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, two years ago, my first task was to listen to the 120 stakeholders who wanted to meet me to discuss the matter. at the rate of half an hour per participant, this was a good collection of information for me. then i made my report, and there were 2,500 amendments. it was necessary to find the most common position possible, a compromise, first within parliament, with a clear message not to distort the commission's original proposal but to actually try to improve it where possible. then there were the negotiations with the council, with the many meetings i mentioned earlier, first with the fictitious rapporteurs and then with the irish ambassador - this was under the irish presidency - to arrive at a position on 27 june, coreper on 17 july, parliament's position on 5 september in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and to arrive at the plenary today. i have already said that i have to thank, and i am happy to do so, first of all commissioner michel barnier and his services, led by pierre delsaux, for the negotiations and also for the initial proposal, which we have indeed tried to improve but which was already going in the right direction. i also thank evelyne gebhardt, who trusted me in my group to give me this report. it was not obvious, i am an alternate member of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, but i am very much involved and i am of course very grateful to him. i have already spoken about the fictitious rapporteurs and i have praised their remarkable work. i mentioned heidi ruehle also in the technical meetings, but she had also written an own-initiative report mr creutzmann, mr de jong, and also frank engel, in whom i discovered someone who was very open and very collaborative. it is true that we tried to reach compromises at first, and others have followed suit, but parliament had to have a clear message. thank you, frank. i also welcome malcolm harbour, last but not least, as fictitious rapporteur but also as chairman. thank you, madam president, for giving me a few more seconds, i know you will, it's worth it. malcolm harbour has conducted the negotiations in a remarkable way. we did not always share the same views, he did not always personally share the majority opinion of parliament, but he was able, through intensive working meetings, to prepare parliament well for the six-man negotiations, since the seventh man was in front of the tv and there was not, as i said earlier, six different political groups facing an ambassador, which is not an easy position. i also mentioned pier antonio panzeri and philippe juvin, colleagues with whom we have worked closely, but also the danish, cypriot and irish presidencies - under which we negotiated with ambassador haney and mr kineane with whom we have worked closely - and the lithuanian and, at present, the greek presidencies. i would like to thank the imco committee secretariat, along with president harbour, panos konstantopoulos and his team. i would like to end by mentioning my assistant, marie rameau, who initiated the dossier, and alessia centioni, who landed it and carried the negotiating force, as well as santina bertulessi in my group, who was outstanding in the negotiations. we must also greet the staff around us, without whom we could not work. finally, i would like to mention the translators who provided us with the texts in 23 languages, as well as the linguistic lawyers, 450 pages, it had to be done!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 15 january 2014, at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by mr daniel caspary, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on access for third-country goods and services to the internal market of union procurement and establishing procedures to facilitate negotiations on access for union goods and services to third-country procurement (com (2012) 0124 - c7-0084/2012 - 2012/0060 (cod)) (a7-0454/2013).
i am sorry to have to say that i have not been able to make a reply to the question. president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i do not agree with the rapporteur, mrs girling, and i do not agree with mr borg. my group rather shares the analysis of mr peterle and mr tabajdi. the committee on the environment and food safety rightly agrees with the court of justice ruling that pollen, and certainly gmo pollen, is an ingredient. pollen is introduced into honey by bees and by the beekeeper's rocking of the honey, but also by human intervention. since hives are deliberately placed somewhere, whether or not near gmo fields, so that the bees can collect pollen from specific plants, and since the honey-sweeping is also deliberate, the presence of pollen in honey cannot be considered unforeseen. common pollen can still be considered a natural ingredient, gmo pollen by definition cannot, because the gmo legislation is based on the fact that gmos are not natural and therefore require risk analysis, authorisation and labelling. so if we consider pollen as an ingredient, then gmo labelling is sufficient for us, there is no need for an ingredient list, as mr tabajdi also said. some argue that the court of justice ruling implies an obligation that all honey will now have to be tested for the presence of gmos as a standard. that's not true. and that will not cost any extra money either, because in practice, ladies and gentlemen, the judgment is already being applied and that did not cause any market disturbance. where honey is produced in environments where there is no gmo cultivation, there is no problem. and in germany, for example, the supermarkets are already asking for proof that the honey is not gmo-free. if there is a sufficient distance between a gmo field and a hive, then that is accepted as sufficient evidence that there is no problem. it is therefore necessary to develop a good coexistence policy, to ensure that coexistence also takes into account bees, bees that sometimes fly 10 or 14 kilometres. so my call is: make sure there's a good coexistence policy. then the beekeepers will suffer no harm.
i think that our chief negotiator, mrs macovei, has ensured that the hercules iii programme is tightened up in terms of its operational objectives, taking into account the experience gained in hercules i and ii. the gist is actually pretty clear: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the financial interests of the union. we all agree that the hercules programme is of the utmost importance in the fight to protect taxpayers' money from fraud and embezzlement. and in the fight against smuggling and counterfeiting of cigarettes it plays a crucial role, it plays a decisive role. i therefore call on everyone to adopt this programme, mrs macovei's text, as agreed with the council, by a large majority tomorrow.
the agreement on the digital tachograph, which was concluded last may between negotiators from the commission, parliament and the member states, will be discussed today and finally adopted tomorrow. i would like to thank all those who have contributed to this, first of all, of course, the rapporteur, our good colleague, mrs ţicău, and all the shadow rapporteurs, for their good work. it is very important legislation which will be able to significantly promote the application of existing rules, usually also social rules of the game. the new legislation will equip new lorries with the new digital tachograph from 2015 onwards, which should contribute to safer road transport, a more social transport system and, of course, a fairer transport sector, as it will allow better organisation of the control of the rules that should lead to a level playing field for all. driving and rest times will be better controlled by making manipulation more difficult. the tachograph will be remotely controlled, so that time is not lost for the honest carrier, but inspectors will also be able to inspect more lorries. in addition, the tachograph is linked to the gps so that compliance with other rules, such as cabotage rules, can also be carried out more efficiently. if it fails, the responsibility will no longer be automatically placed on the driver, but in the first instance on the employer, who often puts pressure on the driver to play with the tachograph. on the other hand, small selfemployed workers within a radius of 100 km may also be exempted from the tachograph. this will reduce bureaucracy. in short, positive legislation, something that will help to put europe in a good light. of course, it is not a panacea. much will depend on how the member states implement all this.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 15 january 2014, at 12 noon.
the agenda calls for debate on the report by mr reinhard bütikofer, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on 'reindustrialising europe to promote competitiveness and sustainability'. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
president, commissioner, i think - the commissioner himself has already emphasized this - that industry in europe can only survive if we make energy affordable. they're communicating vessels. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this means that we must give priority to the development of cross-border european energy networks more than ever before. this must also be the priority of the next european commission. point two, innovation of course. yes, i'm walking into an open door, but innovation in education, too. we must convince our young people that industry is a sectoral education. take 3d printing for example. that is a very interesting new industrial training, an industrial activity, and we can convince young people that that is something for them too. thirdly, we can only succeed with this new industrial policy if we can guarantee that our industry can compete on equal terms with competitors from outside the european union. that means that we must be much more aggressive in our efforts to include social, ecological and environmental criteria in bilateral trade agreements. it is not an easy road, but it is the only road, inevitable. point four, commodity policy. you have stressed that point, commissioner. i think we need to focus on that smart, that hard-hitting raw materials policy, with a big emphasis on recycling. that's the most important asset we have on hand. raw materials are the achilles heel of our industry and efficient reuse is vital to this story. so we're gonna have to go a lot more offensive on that one. finally, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the last point - a small but important element in this bütikofer report. it stresses the importance of the cooperative approach, including in industry. a lot of cooperatives, also in the industrial field, are very, very successful locally. and i think that we should also support these cooperatives from a european point of view 100 per cent.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 15 january 2014, at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. having been in charge of the opinion of the employment committee for the s&d group, i welcome the adoption of this report, which takes up many of the committee's points, such as the importance of social dialogue in the responsiveness of our industrial fabric to global changes or the defence of the interests of european industry in the context of the union's trade agreements. but my greatest satisfaction comes from the adoption of my amendment calling for a genuine common industrial policy in europe, with an ambition and means comparable to those of the common agricultural policy, a genuine transnational consultation to develop a common strategy with significant financial resources and market regulation tools, such as the monetary tool or state aid rules adapted to the needs of our industry. this common policy must incorporate an ambitious research-innovation and energy-climate dimension. a european globalisation adjustment fund with increased resources, with a forward-looking aspect of sectoral restructuring, could be fundamental to the functioning of this common policy. it is also necessary to be able to use trade defence instruments in the interests of fair trade to avoid dumping which is harmful to our industry.
in writing. we cannot let european industry down! i note the decline of european industry which, in particular due to the evolution of the global industrial landscape, has lost 3 million jobs and 10% of its output since 2008 while it is one of the main growth drivers for europ. the commission must implement without delay a long-term and sustainable common strategy based on the promotion, enhancement and attractiveness of european industry, and based on concrete instruments, with a view to maintaining its competitiveness on the world stage; the committee stressed that the common commercial policy was crucial for industry. this european industrial policy should support growth and value-added sectors where europe is already at the forefront or has the potential to be, and ensure that sectors such as aerospace, chemicals, automotive, agri-food, textiles and clothing and mechanical engineering remain competitive. this requires coordination of all levels of power which is sometimes lacking! it is about growth, jobs and industrial independence for europe, not least.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank the president-in-office for his strong pro-european message at the end of his speech. we believe very strongly in this greek presidency, because greece is the symbol of europe – i should say for better and for worse. your country gave the name of europe to our beautiful continent but – let us be honest – in recent years your country has also represented the biggest threat or crisis that the union has ever faced. you could even say, as you did yourself (so i can repeat it), that the greek crisis is in a way the quintessence of the european crisis. for a long period there was a lack of discipline, of solidarity and, most importantly i think, of unity. let us be clear: i do not think we would have had a greek crisis or a european crisis if the political class in greece had taken responsibility far earlier than they did and, at the same time, if european leaders and the european national elites had shown full solidarity from the beginning of the crisis in 2009. it has to be said that both failed in that respect, and that is why we have this tragedy today. for it is a tragedy, with huge unemployment, and young people in europe at the moment saying that they want to leave europe. they no longer see their future within the european union. there is also rising populism and nationalism, and growing racism. let us also be realistic about the figures that we have seen, and that we can see today, in the economic field. personally i expect a long period of low economic growth, rather like that faced by the japanese in the 1990s. i expect nothing less, but nothing more either. that is a tragedy, because this crisis is a european crisis rather than a world crisis. china, india and the us are all growing. japan has a growth figure of more than 2 %, and fortunately even the african continent has growth figures of 5-6 %. so there is collective responsibility here on the part of the european leadership and – let us face it – also of the greek political class for what has happened in recent years in europe. first of all, the greek political class was at fault because reforms were undertaken too late. greece still has a clientelist system, an oversized civil service, huge state ownership and professions which are closed to newcomers. instead of carrying out reforms in these areas, the only measures taken – certainly in the beginning – were the moderation of lower wages and tax increases for small and medium-sized companies. so i hope the necessary reforms can now go forward and that you will not revert to the failed recipes of the past. however, we have also made mistakes ourselves. i think the most important error – and we have to recognise this today, before the greek presidency – was made in december 2009 by not immediately backing greece, and it was compounded in january 2010 by talking openly about a greek exit. that gave rise to grave consequences, with a long period of financial instability. the two-year period of financial instability in europe was created because we were not more open and solid with greece. we gave the impression that countries could leave the eurozone and that countries could even leave the euro system and the european union. mr samaras, although it is perhaps cynical to say this, you are in a quite unique position. you are now in the greek presidency, and you can apply all the lessons you learned in greece to reforming the european union. you are in the best position to tell your colleagues that they should not make the same mistakes and that they need to create a banking union. you know what the consequences are of a lack of european union and a lack of unity. my request to you is that you prioritise three things. the first is banking union. i will not repeat what joseph daul and hannes swoboda have said. i am sorry, but the proposal that we have today is not a proposal that will create confidence in the banking sector. you know that the main problem for the moment in europe is a blocked mechanism for transfer between the banks and the real economy. you will not restore that transfer mechanism if we do not establish a real banking union with a single resolution mechanism based not on national resolutions but on the proposal from the commission. we are united here in our refusal to accept an intergovernmental patchwork. it has to be a communitarian proposal, and you have to go to berlin: it is there that you have to convince people of the need to put in place another vision and another opinion. secondly, we need a new economic governance model: a model for convergence, not divergence; not contractual arrangements that create animosity against europe, but a convergence system. my third and final point is a request to you to speed up the integration of our markets: the single market, the telecoms market, the bond market and also the labour market. we need more labour mobility. labour mobility in europe is only 2.8 %, while in the united states it is three times more than that. at the moment we have more than two million vacancies because of lack of labour mobility. mr farage, meanwhile, came here and said we had a problem. he said that 2.8 % was too high and that it had to be lower. he wants to block labour mobility. a number of you want to block growth creation. i can only say, in conclusion, that it was lucky – or maybe it was bad luck – that at the time when mr farage’s ancestors crossed the channel he was not in charge of the immigration laws, because otherwise they would never have reached britain and he would never have been a british citizen.
mr president, the temptation is great to be cynical or sarcastic about the greek presidency, about the fact that the member state with the most problems is now holding the presidency of the eu, but i am not going to do that. greece has been able to improve its situation in recent months, but you cannot expect us to believe that the structural problems are now over. the northern countries will continue to pay for the southern countries in the euro zone. and this has nothing to do with solidarity, as is claimed here, but with the fact that the eurozone and the eu in general have become a structural transfer union, as the belgian state is one, for example. there are simply too great socioeconomic differences between the countries within the eurozone. mr samaras, use the greek presidency to finally start the debate on the unsustainability of the eurozone as it exists today. i can assure you, if you don't, the voters will do it in may of this year.
i am in full agreement with the many speakers before me who have spoken about the response to the economic crisis and the banking union, who have criticised the troika and advocated the fight against tax evasion. but as coordinator of transport matters for the social democrats, i would like to take this opportunity to point out the many important transport matters which are in line for consideration by the council and on which we as parliament have already taken a formal position or are about to do so. they all have one important feature in common: they want to make the transport system more efficient, better integrated, more european. this can strengthen the functioning of the market and thus contribute to economic growth and job creation. unfortunately, many of the files are in the council's freezer or are moving at a terribly slow pace. in the aviation sector, for example, there is the airport package with proposals on the allocation of slots, better social conditions for land dealers, or better rules on tackling noise pollution at airports which are not being negotiated. the single european sky ii package, which aims to make air traffic control more efficient, is also not getting off the ground. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the issue of strengthening passenger rights in air transport, which we are voting on in the plenary next month, could be a good opportunity to show our citizens that we can achieve a lot of positive things at european level. but there is little movement in the council on this matter either. then there is the railway sector, for example, with the famous fourth railway package, which contains a whole range of measures aimed at technical harmonization and interoperability of the railway system, and which can also save a great deal of time and money for industry. there is, of course, the maritime strategy. in short, mr prime minister, we ask you to put in a little effort and to do some things.
in writing. mr prime minister, mr president, you are right to say that the confidence of many europeans in the european union has been seriously shaken in recent years. there was uncertainty about our currency, there was and is uncertainty about whether europe is capable of pulling us out of this financial and economic quagmire. populist and anti-european parties will do everything to convince people that the european project must be scrapped. it is up to us to show that the foundations of the eu have been strengthened in the last months and years. reforms have been introduced - banking supervision, financial and economic cooperation between member states - which were unthinkable until recently. the euro has returned to calmer waters. greece itself has come a long way and is even starting to grow again. it is now up to us to support these early signs of hope with a strong european programme: we must be bold to set up and promote ambitious projects together (in the digital economy, renewable energy, defence...). projects with those partners who want to move forward. that is the only way to regain the confidence of the european citizens.
in writing. the greek presidency faces a number of difficult challenges. first of all, it would be nice if the troika were to be abolished in the next six months. this is the first step towards a different kind of policy. a policy that puts social thinking and solidarity first and that works by agreeing on standards such as minimum wages and working hours. the second major challenge is the creation of a social europe, but it is also our core task, and the greek presidency can take a number of steps to achieve this. thirdly, there is a very important climate and energy issue on the table for the greek presidency, namely the 2030 package. the package will define our energy landscape in 2030 and the eu's measures to combat climate change. i want to set ambitious and binding targets in three areas: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. energy efficiency and renewable energy are the fastest and cheapest ways to reduce our energy imports. and they're also cutting future bills and they're vital to our climate. i wish the greek presidency every success in meeting these important challenges.
in writing. a better definition of the competences of committees, in the light of the lisbon treaty, will reduce conflicts between them and improve the legislative role of the european parliament. the main changes in the final agreement include the development of a more coherent european approach to criminal law, the more general involvement of specialised committees in the activities of the committee on budgetary control, the implementation of the internal market and the strengthening of consumer rights. the role of eu foreign policy coordination was explicitly highlighted, as was the prominent role of trade and investment policies and agreements.
in writing. voting for the 2015 calendar should have been a trivial matter. but some people wanted to pollute the text by shortening the strasbourg session. it's ridiculous to move everyone for two days and vote day and night! it is equally ridiculous to abolish the brussels sessions. if it is to make things worse, then the people who are proposing amendments like this would do well to give their place to members who really want to work!
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. the specific programme on the prevention, preparedness and consequence management of terrorism and other security-related risks (hereinafter referred to as the 'cips specific programme'), currently in force, was established for the period 2007-2013. it aims to prevent, prepare for and protect people and critical infrastructure against terrorist attacks and other security-related risks. for the period 2014-2020, this programme will be replaced by the internal security funds ('isf-police'). given the dual legal basis (ec, euratom) chosen for the adoption of the cips specific programme, a separate legislative act is necessary for its repeal.
i voted for the text of my colleague mr sartori. science and technology is one of the most dynamic areas of cooperation between the european union and russia, based on common interests in promoting innovation and economic competitiveness. intensive collaboration in the fields of research and technology, including a strong track record of joint projects and other cooperative activities, is an essential element of the eu-russia strategic partnership and contributes to the achievement of the objectives of the partnership for modernisation.
in writing. this proposal does not contain any substantive amendments and is limited to a codification of existing acts without any change in their substance, which justifies my vote in favour. i share the view that the single currency system of the union should win public confidence and lead to technological innovations that ensure its safety, reliability and efficiency. it should also help to combat counterfeiting.
in writing. i am in favour of an ambitious strengthening of relations between the european union and asean. the eu will be a single market of 600 million people by 2015 and will become a major world economic power. i believe it is essential to strengthen cooperation between the two major regional organisations, both economically and commercially and politically, in the areas of security, the environment, culture and education. to this end, a robust framework for dialogue between the parties must be established. respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms, social rights, labour rights and economic rights must be a principle that is transversal to all relations between the two regional organisations. i therefore welcome, in particular, the proposal to set up a dispute settlement mechanism and sanctions for violations of these fundamental rights and freedoms.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to give special attention to relations between the european union and asean, which have often been unfairly placed behind relations between the european union and china, japan and india. this is despite the fact that the purchasing power and size of the asean economy are already comparable to those of china and that asean's political influence is increasing. the similarities between the european union and asean offer great potential for synergies and mutual learning. this report attempts to explore how the strengthening of economic relations can be accommodated within a more appropriate socio-political and institutional framework and relations. it also offers ideas on how to give a new dimension to bilateral relations between the regions. the evaluation and recommendations are presented in the context of the ambitious internal integration process under way within asean, the emergence of political powers and democratic challenges such as those faced by the next asean presidency, myanmar/burma, with its rapid transition and evolution towards democracy.
in writing. this report on rest and driving times in road transport is finally coming to fruition. the negotiations have dragged on for over a year and have been a tough one. the result is relatively satisfactory, as some crucial points have been incorporated in the final text. for example, driving times will be automatically recorded on the tachograph, together with the speed travelled. it is also important to us that it is not the driver but the employing company that will be held responsible for breaking this law. it is a pity that the entry into force of the directive is likely to take a long time, and in practice it may take up to five years. i hope that this kind of concrete legislation and action will restore confidence in europe. europe can no longer be seen as a threat. it's supposed to protect. this peace project is still gaining more than it is losing, but it urgently needs to be reversed in many respects. europe must be greener, more social and therefore more ecological. i fight for that every day.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text. the tachograph is used in road transport to monitor compliance with the rules on driving time and rest periods in the interests of road safety, decent working conditions for drivers and fair competition between transport undertakings. the proposed regulation, which will replace the regulation in force since 1985, aims to make fraud more difficult, to improve the enforcement of social legislation and to reduce the administrative burden by making full use of new technologies and introducing a number of new regulatory provisions.
in writing. in order to undertake public works and guarantee a range of goods and services, the state must maintain close relations with the private sector. the report therefore aims to regulate the award of public contracts by simplifying and streamlining procedures while maintaining maximum transparency, which will ensure fair competition. the report stresses the importance of also incorporating respect for a set of common social objectives such as respect for the environment, the fight against global warming, the better use of resources while simultaneously promoting innovation, employment and social inclusion. i am pleased to see that special attention has been paid to small and medium-sized enterprises in order to facilitate their access to this type of offer, in particular by simplifying administrative and bureaucratic formalities.
in writing. i would like to congratulate mr juvin and mr panzeri on their excellent work. i am convinced that a european legislative initiative on concessions is necessary. the lack of legal certainty, the persistence of over-the-counter contracts awarded in defiance of the main principles which have built the internal market of the european union and the legal patchwork existing at member state level in this field call for the establishment of a legislative framework at european level. however, this framework must respect a 'lightweight' approach which allows the establishment of clear, coherent, readable and effective rules. the rapporteur hopes that this objective has been achieved.
in writing. the revision of the two directives on public procurement is a major step forward for the european single market. the simplified procedures are intended to ensure the best possible use of public funds, which is crucial in times of tight budgetary resources. governments will also have to explain why they do not break up large contracts into smaller ones to provide more opportunities for smes and micro-enterprises. but the package goes beyond financial efficiency and economic leverage. quality and social value are also given prominent place. social and environmental criteria can now be taken into account by public authorities, and social services are even obliged to do so. governments may also reserve contracts for operators whose main objective is the social and professional integration of vulnerable workers, with a minimum percentage of such workers of only 30%. public procurement accounts for 19% of gdp in europe each year. this package of legislation will make this sector more transparent and fair.
in writing. i believe that the modernisation of the public procurement directives should strike a balance between simplifying the rules and ensuring sound and efficient procedures based on award criteria linked to innovation and sustainability, while also ensuring a higher participation of smes and making public procurement online more widespread. efforts should be made to exploit fully the potential of public procurement in the single market to promote sustainable growth, employment and social inclusion. given that public procurement represents a significant part of the economy (around 19% of the union's gdp), a successful overhaul and implementation of public procurement rules would make a significant contribution to the revival of investment in the real economy and to overcoming the crisis in the european economy. citizens expect every euro of public money to be spent in a useful, efficient and responsible way. this reform of public procurement was indispensable and will mark the daily lives of all the actors in our society.
in writing. i believe that the modernisation of the public procurement directives should strike a balance between simplifying the rules and establishing sound and efficient procedures based on award criteria linked to innovation and sustainability, while also ensuring a higher participation of smes and making online procurement more widespread. efforts should be made to exploit fully the potential of public procurement in the single market to promote sustainable growth, employment and social inclusion. since public procurement represents a significant part of the economy (about 19% of the union's gdp), a successful overhaul and implementation of procurement rules would make a significant contribution to the revival of investment in the real economy and to overcoming the crisis in the european economy. increasing the quality and efficiency of services to citizens, facilitating access to markets for smes, ensuring compliance with good working conditions and environmental criteria: this is a clear step forward for all the actors in our society.
in writing. the proposal was put forward jointly by two commissioners, michel barnier and karel de gucht, who both stated that they were firmly convinced of the need to provide the union with such an instrument. however, the reaction in the council was mixed: some member states supported the proposal, and an equally large number did not see the need to act on this matter and rejected the idea, considering the instrument as a protectionist measure likely to have negative effects on world trade (in particular through possible retaliation by powerful third countries). unfortunately, the council has not been able to break the deadlock and move forward with the substance of the proposal. we have proposed a number of amendments which could help to bridge the gap between the strong opponents and the strong supporters of the proposal. first, assess the impact and revise the instrument. secondly, to preserve the principle of uniformity of the cfp. thirdly, to prevent the fragmentation of the internal market. fourthly, to avoid damage to developing countries.
in writing. the proposal will enable the commission to amend the technical specifications for the names, descriptions and definitions of the products listed in annex i and the compositional characteristics of the honey listed in annex ii to this directive. we believe that these are essential elements of the directive. therefore, the commission proposal, by allowing a change in the essential elements, goes beyond the scope of the delegated acts as contained in the treaty. that is why we have asked in the report that these references be deleted from the commission's proposal. we have also asked for the duration of the power to adopt delegated acts to be changed. this period has been changed from an indefinite period to a tacitly renewable period of five years. this amendment reflects parliament's standard wording for delegated acts and corresponds to the approach adopted for the abovementioned directives.
in writing. i voted in favour of these amendments. the union and the member states have set themselves the objective of combating fraud, corruption and any other illegal activity affecting the financial interests of the eu, including smuggling and counterfeiting of cigarettes. in order to improve the long-term impact of expenditure and to avoid duplication, close and regular cooperation and coordination should be ensured within the commission services, between the competent authorities of the member states and between the commission services and the competent authorities.
in writing. i voted in favour of these amendments. it is of particular importance that the commission carry out appropriate consultations during its preparatory work, including at expert level where appropriate, after having informed the member states of the entities to be consulted and of the basis for such consultations, in order to ensure a high level of impartiality and to avoid any conflict of interest. when preparing and drawing up delegated acts, the commission should ensure that all relevant documents are transmitted simultaneously to the european parliament and to the council in a timely and appropriate manner.
in writing. the question and oral resolution tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety aimed at keeping wildlife crime high on the political agenda of both the eu and the rest of the world. it is the fourth most important illegal activity, after drug trafficking, counterfeiting and human trafficking. it is strongly linked to organised crime and seriously threatens regional stability and security, human health and biodiversity. the revenues from trafficking in endangered species are estimated at between 18 and 26 billion euros per year. the eu is considered to be an important market and transit route for illegal wildlife trade. the resolution underlines the essential importance of a renewed and coordinated global response, based on the cites treaties and other laws and initiatives. it highlights the importance of strengthening political will at the highest level. the means of repression and criminal justice systems, both at national and international level, must be used more effectively and efficiently. the member states must allocate resources. moreover, appropriate criminal sanctions must be applied at all levels to avoid any gaps in the system.
mr president, i have given one minute of my speaking time to mr kacin, so i have not much left. i would just like to point out the fact that the absence of a solution to the main issue of what we call fyrom when one of the member states is present, and the non-recognition of kosovo by five member states, are expressions, it seems to me, not so much of a lack of political will as a lack of courage and a lack of foresight, because one day we will need solutions for all of them. it is all the more surprising and all the more positive that it has been possible to conclude agreements between serbia and kosovo, and i want to congratulate baroness ashton and commissioner füle for their contribution to achieving these solutions. i would like to say thank you to both our rapporteurs, who have done a great job.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, we have learned with sadness of the number of victims and displaced persons in sudan, which is a tragedy. today, of course, i share the suffering of the south sudanese people, who deserved better. i would also like to express our gratitude to the european union delegation for the way they worked there. i would also like to point out that three of the officials from the european union delegation have remained in juba and are doing an exemplary job. i would like to say that, in general, the european union, the international community and the troika, namely the united states, britain and norway, have been like fairies around the cradle of this premature, what south sudan was at the time it declared its independence, when none of the structures, administrations and infrastructures that make up a state were yet in place. so two years to make a state is very little. in the report we voted on in december, i had already pointed out the instability of this young state, its shortcomings, particularly in terms of democracy and education, the presence of interethnic conflicts, the dissensions in the militia army, etc. all this made us think of a great risk with our northern neighbour, but we did not imagine that it would be these internal factors that would trigger the first major disaster that this country has experienced. now we must not give up. two years is a very short time. for the development of this country, we committed, from 2011 to 2013, 830 million euros and we have planned 1.3 million euros until 2016. these efforts must be continued, along with humanitarian aid. today we are pushing igad and we are right to do so. we support the african union and we must continue. but we will have to rethink, with the investigation of the african union and with the report, the fundamental problems which are problems of governance and democracy in this country, where corruption is rampant. we cannot build a country with such fragility without taking risks, like the ones we face today. but we have to keep hoping.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, mr president-in-office, the crisis in south sudan obviously has multiple origins, as has already been said: ethnic divisions, economic issues. it is obvious that the lure of oil profit is not in vain in the unrest, strategic rivalries and a difficult neighbourhood. it is true that mrs de keyser's excellent report already highlighted the risks, the difficulties and the fragility of rapidly establishing a state. it is clear that two years, as my colleague mr de keyser says, is not enough. beyond the suffering of south sudanese people - hundreds of thousands of displaced people and refugees - the crisis in south sudan is also clearly threatening regional stability. we can think of uganda, the democratic republic of congo, sudan itself and the horn of africa, which is also affected by the conflict in the central african republic and for which there is still no solution. south sudan is at a crossroads. we must remind president salva kiir and his rival, former vice-president rieck machar, that they too have a responsibility to prevent the escalation of violence and the ethnic drift that follows. we welcome the opening of peace negotiations on 6 january. we call for an immediate ceasefire to guarantee access to humanitarian aid. an inclusive political dialogue, including the release of all political prisoners, must be launched. i would also like to congratulate the special representative and head of the united nations mission in south sudan, hilde johnson, who is doing her utmost to ensure that the mediation under the auspices of the intergovernmental authority for development (igad) leads to a return to constitutional order. mr president of the council, given the european union's particularly important commitment to south sudan, we believe it would be appropriate to extend the mandate of the european union's representative for the horn of africa, alexander rondos, who has visited - as you said - the region and established regular contacts with key players in south sudan and the region. not to extend it or not to envisage such an extension would obviously be evidence of a lack of commitment on the part of the european union, which i do not dare to believe. we are of course insisting that those responsible for human rights violations and any actions against the civilian population be prosecuted and brought to justice. the international community must and can exert all its influence to ensure that the peace negotiations continue and that civil war is avoided.
the agenda calls for the debate on the commission statement on the eu homelessness strategy (2013/2994 ((rsp)).
madam president, commissioner, a european strategy to combat homelessness was already urgently needed three years ago, as my report on the fight against poverty indicated. it is even more so today because the crisis has inevitably made the phenomenon worse. this phenomenon has many facets. of course, an important aspect is the availability of housing and its affordability. but there are also life accidents that trigger homelessness, other than housing shortages, that need to be considered: unemployment and loss of income and therefore the need to reinvest in europe to boost growth; the commission has also been active in the fight against poverty, particularly in the areas of education, health and social protection. the european social fund and the european fund for the most deprived needed to be reoriented towards this inclusion priority, but unfortunately their financial resources remain too limited. while fully supporting the recommendations in our resolution on housing, i insist that policies for social inclusion, social protection and job recovery be strengthened at all levels of government in europe. from the local level, which i know well as mayor, to the european level, with cohesion policy, and the national level, where austerity must end. the worst thing for a homeless person is to feel abandoned by society and the authorities. to avoid this, the three main areas are the recovery of employment, social protection and social inclusion.
i have received, in accordance with rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure, five motions for resolutions.1 the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (rule 149) 1 see minutes for the minutes.
the agenda calls for the debate on the commission statement on non-discrimination in the field of reproductive and sexual health and rights (2014/2514 ((rsp)).
i would like to welcome all the visitors in the gallery, but in particular a group of women who work in family planning and are certainly very concerned by our debate.
mrs. sinclaire, i think that's one interpretation that can be given, but it's not the rule. in any case, mrs. in 't veld had the right to ask for a blue card. i did. please ask for a blue card if you wish.
mr van dalen, i think that this does not disturb the debate and i suggest that we continue it as calmly as possible, as it has begun.
mr president, this is simply to replace any figure of victims with 'thousands of victims', because we do not know how many people are dead today in sudan. we talked about 1,000 dead, then 10,000, then more. so let's say "thousands" instead. i think it'll be closer to reality.
in writing. representing 80% of private r&d investment and four-fifths of european exports, industry plays a major role in our economy and enables us to position ourselves as a dominant player globally in many strategic sectors. however, the economic crisis has considerably weakened european industry, causing millions of job losses and a fall in production. it is therefore with great interest that i welcome this own-initiative report which calls for an ambitious european strategy to ensure a viable, dynamic, competitive and sustainable industry. to do this, it is essential to set a short- and long-term agenda, as the report says. the objectives set must be ambitious but also realistic, precise and stable, while ensuring a transversal approach. ensuring the viability of our industries must not be achieved by a repetition of previous industrial policies but by modern policies, which ensure the full participation of smes and of all political powers in europe. opening up to the outside world remains one of the pillars of the growing competitiveness of our european industry.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. i am disappointed to see the decline of european industry, which, in particular due to the evolution of the global industrial landscape, has lost three million jobs and 10% of its output since 2008 when it is one of the main growth drivers for europe. the commission must implement without delay a common long-term and sustainable strategy based on the promotion, enhancement and attractiveness of european industry, as well as on concrete instruments, with a view to maintaining its global competitiveness. it should be remembered that the common commercial policy is decisive for industry.
in writing. we have analysed the various data relating to the appointment of a member of the executive board of the european central bank. we then looked at sabine lautenschläger's cv and background to determine whether she met the requirements for this position.
in writing. i have approved the text. the commission proposes that, for the period 2014-2020, france be authorised to apply a reduced rate of excise duty and vss of up to 50% of the respective normal rates, but that the cumulated reduction of excise duty and vss should not exceed 50% of the full rate on alcohol fixed. it is also proposed that france prepare a mid-term report to be submitted to the commission by 31 july 2017 at the latest, in order to enable the commission to establish whether the reasons for granting the tax derogation are still relevant and whether the tax advantage granted by france remains proportionate and sufficient to support the competitiveness of the crs value chain in guadeloupe, french guiana, martinique and réunion. this report should also provide information on 'marketing costs'. should the information provided show that the tax exemption is no longer partially or fully justified, or that other measures are more appropriate for reasons of competitiveness, but also in view of its international dimension, a phasing-out process could be introduced until the end of the period concerned.
in writing. in view of the legal context set out above and the draft opinion and the final opinion of the juri committee, we have agreed to reformulate the applicable rules in order to structure them more coherently and to harmonise their content with recent case law and the practice of the committee responsible. parliamentary immunity is not a personal privilege of the member but a guarantee of the independence and integrity of parliament as a whole and of its members. the regulation should therefore regulate this matter in an impeccable manner and in sufficient detail to protect the prestige of the institution in which citizens are directly represented.
in writing. we oppose the adoption of the proposal for a council decision concerning the placing on the market for cultivation, in accordance with directive 2001/18/ec of the european parliament and of the council, of genetically modified maize (zea mays l., line 1507) to make it resistant to certain lepidoptera parasites. moreover, it seems to me that the proposal for a council decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in the directive. parliament agreed that there was a need for a more rigorous assessment of the long-term effects of gmos and for independent research into the potential risks involved in the deliberate release or placing on the market of gmos. the need to allow independent researchers access to all the necessary information is also appropriate. consumers are overwhelmingly concerned about genetically modified food.
mr president, the free movement of persons is a good principle in theory. we all think of tourists, students, business people and so on. but in the reality of the real world, unfortunately, things are very different. the principle of free movement of persons is considered sacrosanct by the european parliament and the european commission, but this ignores the problems. the free movement of persons was a godsend for organized crime, illegal aliens, human traffickers, welfare tourists and the like. the policy must be adapted to reality and not the other way around. the member states must therefore be able to control their borders again, and they must be able to take measures to combat poverty-related immigration. here too, unfortunately, we see that the european union is part of the problems and not the solution to the problems.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution. indeed, free movement is one of the european union's most cherished achievements. its strength lies in the commitment of the member states to fulfil their obligations and to respect the fundamental rights of the union. the four freedoms of movement of workers, capital, services and goods are guaranteed by the treaties, as they have led to the completion of the single market. these freedoms cannot be separated or evaluated individually. together, they form the foundations of the european project. in some member states there is a debate on the possibility of restricting the fundamental right to free movement for romanian and bulgarian workers. in the united kingdom, restrictions on the access of polish workers to the british social security system have recently been announced. member states which have expressed criticism of the free movement of workers and raised publicly the issue of maintaining or imposing new restrictions on citizens of other eu member states have failed to provide concrete data to support their position.
i abstained on the final vote on the report on the trading of so-called eu citizenship. in practice, it is countries like malta but not just malta that are trading their citizenship for a sound coin. of course, questions can be asked about governments that view their nationality merely as a commodity. but it is a matter for the sovereignty of the member states to decide on this themselves. the big problem is that such measures have repercussions on other member states. the free movement of persons and the abolition of internal borders mean that people with newly acquired maltese papers can settle in any other member state without those governments being able to oppose them. as if the problems caused by the disappearance of frontiers were not big enough!
in writing. − i am concerned that this way of obtaining eu citizenship in several member states undermines the very concept of the european citizenship. we want the member states to recognise and live up to the responsibilities they bear for safeguarding the values and objectives of the union. the commission, as the guardian of the treaties, also has to state clearly whether these schemes are in accordance with the letter and the spirit of the treaties and the schengen borders code, as well as the eu rules on non-discrimination.
in writing. the report welcomes the decision taken by the european council on 28 june to launch accession negotiations with serbia. it states that the first eu-serbia intergovernmental conference will take place in december 2013, provided that serbia meets the criteria set out in the council conclusions. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has adopted a resolution on the proposal for a council directive on the protection of the environment through the protection of natural resources. the s&ds strongly support the opening of accession negotiations with this important player in the western balkans. however, it must be stressed that much work remains to be done. the s&d group will continue to support this process until its conclusion.
in writing. we welcome the conclusion on 19 april 2013 of the first agreement in principle on standardisation between the two prime ministers, as well as the agreement on the action plan for its implementation, and stress the importance of its full implementation in good faith and in a timely manner. we also welcome the allocation of additional european funds under the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa) to support the implementation of the agreement. the opening of saa negotiations between the european union and kosovo was a good thing. however, i strongly condemn the acts of violence and the continuing intimidation that have occurred in the municipalities of mitrovica north and zvečan. such incidents threaten stability and security throughout the region and we urge the authorities concerned to do their utmost to bring perpetrators of violence to justice more often!
in writing. i vote in favour of this resolution. we are in favour of welcoming a new member state with a long-standing democratic tradition, strong institutions and a strong civil society into the union. moreover, iceland has, in general, a good capacity to meet the obligations of membership, especially in view of its participation in the european economic area.
in writing. after years of civil war against the north and following a referendum in january 2011, the republic of south sudan seceded to become an independent nation-state on 9 july 2011. south sudan is the youngest nation in the world, located in the heart of africa, bordering six countries and rich in oil. however, as a result of decades of civil war, it has also become one of the least developed regions. both sudan and south sudan depend on oil revenues, which account for 98% of south sudan's budget. the two sides are at odds over how to equitably share the oil wealth of the former united states. however, access to humanitarian aid remains difficult due to active hostilities. worse still, food access remains limited for those hosted at un bases across the country; the violence and displacement have resulted in the loss of livelihoods, including food sources. europe cannot remain silent!
in writing. a european strategy for the homeless should be fully in line with the lisbon treaty which establishes 'the essential role and broad discretion of national, regional and local authorities in providing, implementing and organising services of general economic interest in a way that is as responsive as possible to the needs of users'. it is the responsibility of the member states to tackle homelessness and therefore a european homelessness strategy should help member states to assume this responsibility as effectively as possible, in full respect of the principle of subsidiarity. however, the commission should set up a high-level expert group to assist it in the preparation and pursuit of a union strategy for the homeless; the commission should also carefully examine references to the problem of homelessness in the country-specific recommendations of member states where progress on this issue is urgently needed.
author. - mr president, last july, after elections marred by numerous frauds according to all local and international observers, cambodia experienced a wave of stability. protests were severely suppressed, including those expressing the discontent and distress of the textile workers. the working conditions of these workers have deteriorated in recent years under pressure from the big european brands for which they are subcontractors. one of these protests ended in bloodshed as the armed forces did not hesitate to fire live ammunition. there is a political problem here, but there is also, as mrs sargentini said, a problem of our responsibility as europeans who continue to trade in the misery of workers in the third world. we call on cambodia to launch a plan - as was done in bangladesh - which protects workers' rights and which is in line with the international labour organisation, but we also call on cambodia to initiate democratic and socioeconomic reforms which alone would restore stability to the country. we also call for an international investigation into the fraud that is likely to have taken place last july.
mr president, laos is a socialist one-party state. cambodia is described by the human rights organization human rights watch as a vague communist free-market economy with a relatively authoritarian coalition ruling over a shallow democracy. in other words, these are countries where the so-called 'real socialism' is in operation. and that socialism wipes its boots on democracy and human rights. nowhere in the world and never in history have the communists succeeded in bringing their ideology into line with democracy and human rights. but there's more to it than that. nowhere are workers more exploited than in communist countries, even if they have allowed a dose of free market economics. and that is a strange thing for an ideology that claims to be for the workers. this is not only the case in china, but also in cambodia, for example, where a protest by workers in the textile sector was brutally crushed. four people were killed. others were injured and dozens are still in prison at this time. we have to do two things. we must first and foremost use a platform like asean to denounce these practices. secondly, we must sanction the countries concerned by withholding development aid as long as the problems persist.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too regret that we have mixed up the sexes a little. cambodia is the one that needs to be the focus here. laos and the case of sombath somphone are obviously important, it was only necessary to have in the same geographical area an application from the unified buddhist church of vietnam. luckily, we got away with it. why cambodia? because on january 3rd, exploited textile workers who took to the streets to demand better wages were more than attacked, as five people were killed and dozens injured. this repression is severe against workers who legitimately demand better working conditions. this is totally unacceptable, knowing that the right to peaceful assembly is enshrined in the cambodian constitution and that these 300,000 protesters were peacefully assembling. it is therefore high time that cambodia finally respects the rights of all its citizens and more particularly the rights of the defenders of those citizens, the workers who are exploited with the complicity of multinational firms. we must make sure that changes there and that we can put pressure on them with this resolution.
author. - mr president, the holding of controversial elections in bangladesh has led to an escalation of violence which has claimed at least 21 lives. the figures vary slightly from source to source. this is very worrying for a state with which we have friendly relations and which has already been struck by many of the tragedies we have discussed in this house. we did not send observers to the elections because the opposition boycotted them. but this opposition was not insignificant. indeed, there was a boycott, notably by the powerful nationalist party bnp, which won 47% of the vote in 2001 and two-thirds of the seats in the assembly. the boycott has therefore weakened the elections and the re-election of the awami league was not a surprise. however, the participation rate was very low, which made these results extremely fragile. i ask the government to engage in an inclusive dialogue with the democratic opposition and possibly hold new elections, if necessary, to review the...
author. - mr president, seventy-eight countries in the world still do not recognize the rights of gays and lesbians. seven of them punish these sexual orientations with the death penalty. however, in africa, it is worth noting that homosexuality between consenting adults is legal in burkina faso, benin, chad, the central african republic, congo, the drc, equatorial guinea, gabon, guinea-bissau, côte d'ivoire, madagascar, mali, niger, rwanda and south africa. these advances are the result of a long campaign to raise awareness of tolerance and respect for the fundamental rights of homosexuals, which we intend to pursue. three countries today are causing us concern: uganda, nigeria and, in another way, russia, which has now banned all propaganda of homosexuality. nigeria and uganda have signed and will sign laws that are genuine calls for hatred and denouncing homosexuality and criminalizing it. in this connection, we call on the european authorities to use the revision of the cotonou agreement with intelligence and tact to make respect for sexual orientation compulsory. as i said, it is the respect of a fundamental right that the left is defending while knowing that there is as much homosexuality on the left as on the right and that sometimes the visibility differs in one field or another.
president. - as a supporter of the traditional family and as the father of two young children, i am sometimes disturbed by the intrusive way in which some lgbti groups operate. for example, in education, any reservations about this are quickly dismissed as homophobia. and that's a term i reject. because let's be clear, it's a shame that in the year 2014, people are still being criminalized and prosecuted because of their sexual orientation. in more than 70 countries, homosexuality is a crime. it is mainly african and islamic countries. there's no point in trying to hide the inconvenient truth. the many colleagues in this house who indulge in political correctness and cultural relativism should think about this urgently, instead of crying crocodile tears and then leaving their world view unchanged. it is the first step towards a real tackling of the problems.
mr president, i would just like to say how surprised i was also to see her not be present because, although i did not intend to vote for the epp group's resolution, i expected her to be there. so there is a real problem.
in writing. i am pleased that the european parliament has given its approval to this report which aims to integrate greenland into the kimberley process certification system. this will provide a better guarantee for its diamond exports while strengthening the international commitment to combat 'war diamonds'. these refer to the illegal sale of diamonds by rebel groups, which use the financial resources generated by this illegal and murderous activity to fuel wars that increase instability in many troubled countries. this agreement will also foster relations between the diamond industries of greenland and the other participating countries, including those of the union, in order to contribute to the economic development of greenland.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text. there is considerable debate in the kimberley process on how to strengthen the system. the commission is now considering the possibility of launching initiatives on 'conflict minerals' to address issues such as the origin of minerals, security of supply, supply chain transparency and good governance; the kimberley process should serve as a model for these initiatives. it is also important that the commission draws lessons from its experience in other areas and continues to invest in the kimberley process in order to encourage csr practices and the establishment of peer review mechanisms among the states participating in the process. in accordance with the provisions of the lisbon treaty, parliament must be informed fully and without delay of any developments at any stage of the proceedings, in particular with regard to this important commercial matter.
in writing. any territorial entity wishing to join the process and willing to respect and implement it effectively should be welcomed. the rapporteur therefore welcomes the commission's ingenious solution, which proposes to include greenland in the eu certification system as an overseas country and territory. we hope that parliament will support the adoption of a rapid solution to this problem. the specific amendments proposed by the commission serve precisely this purpose. the rapporteur therefore intends to support these proposals without any amendments.
in writing. i see no objection to this, so i voted in favour of this amendment to regulation (eu) no 260/2012 as regards the migration to a european system of credit transfers and direct debits.
in writing. the cape town agreement, which aims to improve the safety of fishing vessels, was reached at a conference organised by the international maritime organisation in october 2012. due to the regional nature of the european union and the absence of a clause recognising regional economic integration organisations, the union cannot be a contracting party. this is all the more problematic as the content of the agreement falls within the exclusive competence of the european union. the report thus seeks to give the member states of the union the opportunity to sign this agreement in the name of the community interest. although i welcome this proposal because it seems to me essential that europeans are bound by this international agreement , i remain somewhat bitter because of the impossibility for the european union to sign on its own behalf an international agreement which falls within its own competence.
in writing. i support the current european standards, which apply not only to fishing vessels flying the flag of a member state but also to fishing vessels flying the flag of a third country that are operating in the internal or territorial waters of a member state or that land their catch in a member state port. they ensure that all vessels are subject to a common safety regime and guarantee fair competition in union waters. i also hope that the cape town agreement, when it comes into force, will not only contribute to the safety of fishing vessels of 24 metres in length or more, but will also set the first milestones in addressing the problems associated with smaller vessels, which make up the majority of fishing vessels. in 2007, the overwhelming majority of the 89 000 fishing vessels registered in the union were less than 18 metres long (eusta 09).
in writing. the legislation of the european union is complex and extensive and often plays a decisive role in the lives of european citizens. however, in many cases, such as directives, eu legislation must first be transposed into the national law of each member state. on the other hand, eu regulations are directly applicable in domestic law and must therefore be taken into account by all european citizens. although this hierarchy of standards may seem difficult to understand, it is essential that union law is applied and respected throughout the union. the rule of law also applies at european level. however, as the commission report shows, in many cases the application of european law is not respected within the time limits. it is thus clear that directives are not always transposed into national legislation in time. in the face of this worrying record, there is reason to fear that the commission does not have sufficiently effective tools to monitor effectively the application of eu law in europe and to systematically distinguish shortcomings in the member states.
in writing. i am in favour of this text. as a reminder, according to the european parliament's legal service, the eu pilot online platform, which is used by the member states and the commission to clarify the factual and legal framework of problems relating to the application of union law, has no legal status and, in accordance with the framework agreement on relations between the european parliament and the commission, the commission is required to provide parliament with summary information on all infringement procedures, including on a case-by-case basis, as from the letter of formal notice, and may, in the context of the eu pilot project, refuse access only to personal data.
in writing. mr soffritti argues that the remarks made by lara comi in his regard during that debate are damaging to his reputation and has therefore lodged a complaint for aggravated defamation within the meaning of the second and third paragraphs of article 595 of the italian penal code and article 30 of law 223 of 6 august 1990. at the same time, mr soffriti served lara comi with a summons to appear before the court of ferrara to settle the damage allegedly caused to the civilian. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions, was adopted on the basis of the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. i agree with the latter.
in writing. the present case fulfils the conditions for the application of article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. it is true that allegedly slanderous statements could, in principle, fall within the scope of the absolute immunity provided for in article 8 of the protocol. however, the court of justice has clearly defined the scope of this provision by holding that 'a statement made by a member of the european parliament outside the european parliament which has given rise to criminal proceedings in his member state of origin for the offence of slander constitutes an opinion expressed in the exercise of parliamentary functions falling within the immunity provided for in this provision only where that statement corresponds to a subjective assessment which has a direct and obvious link with the exercise of such functions'. similarly, the court has recently recalled its case-law in gollnisch, namely that a member's opinion can only be covered by immunity established on the basis of eu law if it was issued 'in the exercise of [his] duties', thus implying the requirement of a link between the opinion expressed and parliamentary duties. this link must be direct and obvious.
in writing. the mobility of 12 million union citizens who study, work or live in a member state of which they are not nationals is not only a reality but also a fundamental right, recognised as early as the treaty of rome in 1957. in its resolution on the stockholm programme 2009, the european parliament called for a 'simple and autonomous european system for the abolition of the obligation to obtain the legalisation of acts', respecting the rights enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights by the union and the 'justice for growth' policy. it was therefore time to simplify the acceptance of certain public documents, such as identity cards, diplomas, proof of disability, tax and social security documents. the free movement of persons, a pillar of the single market contributing to the union's economic growth, is undoubtedly one of the great successes of european integration which must continue to be encouraged and supported.
in writing. this text is a real simplification for the citizen. in 2011, eurostat estimated that around 12 million eu citizens were living outside their country of origin, in another eu country. many others are temporarily staying in another eu country to study, work or simply to spend their holidays. all these people may at some time be in contact with the administrative authorities of the state in which they are staying: tourists with the health system, students with the administrative services of universities, workers with the tax authorities and social security, etc. for citizens of another member state, this contact is often synonymous with bureaucratic efforts and obstacles. even if they are fluent in the language of the administration, they are not familiar with, for example, local administrative practices.
in writing. it was necessary to update and align certain provisions of council directives 92/58/eec, 92/85/eec, 94/33/ec, 98/24/ec and directive 2004/37/ec of the european parliament and of the council with regulation (ec) no 1272/2008 on classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures (clp), based on the generally harmonized system of classification and labelling of chemicals at international level (ghs), in order to ensure consistency of legislation and to protect health and safety. by making these technical adaptations, we are standardising the level of protection of workers and consumers from chemicals whose composition changes in line with scientific and technological progress, and we are improving the communication of information on the dangers these products may pose. in addition, this alignment will help facilitate trade at the global level.
in writing. the amendments to the five directives proposed by the commission are purely technical in nature, as are those contained in this draft report. nevertheless, in the light of constant technological progress, the five directives need to be continually reviewed in order to establish consistent legislation and a satisfactory level of health and safety protection in the event of the presence of dangerous substances and chemical mixtures at the workplace.
in writing. to distribute copyright and related rights content and related services, including books, audiovisual productions and recorded music, it is necessary to obtain a rights licence from the various holders of copyright and related rights (e.g. authors, performers, producers or publishers). it is normally up to rightholders to choose between the individual or collective management of their rights. the management of copyright and related rights includes the licensing of users, the financial control of licensees and the monitoring of the use of rights, the enforcement of copyright and related rights, the collection of copyright revenues and their distribution to rightholders.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text. in order to ensure that prosecutions in cross-border cases are effective, member states should take the necessary measures to establish their authority over an offence under this directive, where the offence was committed in whole or in part within their territory or for the benefit of a natural or legal person residing or established in the territory of a member state.
in writing. the objective is to ensure that the commission is properly and regularly informed of investment projects in the union's energy infrastructure so that it can fulfil its task in the energy sector. it will also carry out, every two years, a cross-sectoral analysis of the structural evolution and prospects of the union's energy system, as well as any other specific analysis deemed necessary. this will allow potential future supply/demand imbalances and potential barriers to investment to be identified. the regulation aims to increase transparency of forecast demand and available supply. we fully support the proposal and welcome the new legal basis. this instrument is necessary and complementary to the connecting europe facility for the identification of investment needs in energy infrastructure and the completion of the internal energy market. we have nevertheless made some proposals to clarify the provisions to avoid duplication of information, in the sense that if the disclosure of information on investments is required under other specific provisions of the union, member states will be exempted from this obligation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposed appointment of klaus heiner lehne as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. we have proposed that the court should be composed of the same number of members as the commission; requires that the members of the court have at least audit and management experience, possess the qualifications required for the proper performance of their duties and that their independence is guaranteed beyond a reasonable doubt. we also proposed to review the remuneration system of the members of the court and the resources allocated directly and personally to each of them, in order to align them with national and international practices observed for similar functions, while allowing them to exercise their functions in full independence;
in writing. - better regulation and simplification of redundant administrative formalities, especially for smes, is of course a good thing. but administrative simplification must guarantee fundamental social rights in the eu and not result in blind deregulation. information and consultation of workers and health and safety at work are essential building blocks of the european social model. the european commission has repeatedly expressed its support for the european social dialogue. it is indeed a good thing that workers and employers agree on minimum social standards that can be applied throughout europe. the european framework agreement on health and safety in the hairdressing industry is proof that the european social dialogue is still bearing fruit. the refit programme should therefore not stand in the way of such achievements.
in writing. it is in order to legislate better and more precisely that parliament adopted this afternoon a report on the adequacy, subsidiarity and proportionality of our european laws. in other words, make it simple and efficient while reducing bureaucracy. i have of course supported this report. the text voted this afternoon is an affirmation of parliament's wish to legislate better, not new sectoral legislation, as some have clearly misunderstood. we are not talking about a regression in terms of social or environmental achievements, that is not the point. i nevertheless supported the amendments which stressed the importance of safeguarding the fundamental rights of workers, whatever the efforts made for a more efficient legislative process, and the value of drawing on the valuable experience of the social partners. beyond today's vote, the question is not whether europe should broaden its ambitions in the area of workers' health and safety, but whether it should avoid excessive regulation, thus allowing sectoral agreements to be concluded directly with the social partners at member state level. contrary to the unfounded fears of some, this report respects the principle of subsidiarity to which we are committed.
in writing. pending the consolidation and revision of the commission's impact assessment guidelines by june 2014, parliament should reserve the right to draw up a detailed list of potential improvements to these guidelines in the coming months. in this respect, parliament should also draw lessons from the 2011 niebler report on ensuring the independence of impact assessments, as well as from the functioning of the recently created internal service responsible for impact and european added value assessment, and should ask the council to follow suit in this regard.
in writing. i supported this non-legally binding initiative. i would like to make a clarification on paragraph h (ii). it does not, of course, require states which have not yet opened marriage to persons of the same sex to do so. the union does not have this competence. it is intended to ask the commission to submit proposals for the mutual recognition of the effects of civil status acts, not the acts themselves. parliament regularly receives petitions on these subjects. i would remind you that the report concludes by stressing that this policy must respect the competences of the member states. i voted against the efd resolution because it did not set out any roadmap but merely referred the matter back to the states. the charter of fundamental rights gives us certain obligations which i have observed in the past in the area of non-discrimination, equality, disability and with regard to the roma.
in writing. - i voted against the lunacek report and against the amendment which replaces the original text but retains its philosophy. member states already have legislation against discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. the eu has no competence in this area and should not interfere in this matter. this report is yet another clever way of extending the de facto power of the european commission.
in writing. i voted with a heavy heart in favour of the lunacek report this afternoon: it is our 'road map' against the discrimination still suffered by homosexuals. the real harassment we have been subjected to through email campaigns, especially from eastern europe, has only served to strengthen my conviction. it is up to europe to protect everyone, regardless of their sexual orientation, in their choices and freedoms, with respect for all, including those who have been in the streets for a few weeks in a very noisy and often outrageous manner and who are convinced that granting equal rights to all is taking away from them. it is a sad, tragic mistake to think that europe will decide against the advice and authority of the member states. the sacred principle of subsidiarity is well respected, everyone can rest assured. all the clichés that have been circulated with false slogans are just such trivial attempts to make this road map say what it does not say. equal rights for all, more information, better understanding, acceptance of each other, tolerance of differences: all these are things i believe in. i voted with my eyes closed.
in writing. - the european agency for fundamental rights published in 2013 the results of a survey carried out among lgbt people (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex people). according to the survey, 47% of lgbt people felt discriminated against or harassed in the past year; 26% were attacked or threatened with violence because of their sexual orientation or gender identity; only 10% feel confident enough to report discrimination to the police and only 22% report violence; 32% experience discrimination in housing, education or healthcare, and in goods or services; and 20% are discriminated against in the world of work. these are disturbing figures and just one more indication of what is wrong. since 2011, the european parliament has asked the european commission a dozen times to produce a roadmap against homophobia and discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity. the lunacek report, which was voted on today, proposes such a comprehensive roadmap, which takes account of the principle of subsidiarity and will work with the open method of coordination. this is an important first step in the right direction and that is why i voted for this report.
in writing. i am appalled by the hundreds of messages of hatred and intolerance received in recent days asking him to reject the text. despite some people's displeasure, we voted to establish a comprehensive policy to combat discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity. the figures are clear: in 2013, 47% of lgbt people were victims of discrimination and harassment; this is unacceptable!
in writing. many consumers are reluctant to claim compensation if the amount involved seems low to them. in order to ensure that consumers fully exercise their rights, it is necessary to support the establishment of a consistent collective redress mechanism at union level in the field of consumer protection, which would apply to cross-border cases and be based on the principle of prior consent ('opt-in'). we stress the need to increase consumer awareness of the support that both consumer associations and the network of european consumer centres can provide to consumers in obtaining redress.
in writing. it is important to remember that the scoreboard result must meet certain basic criteria, such as equal treatment of member states, objectivity and comparability of data. in order to ensure equal treatment, common european standards for the provision of data could be created. the union bodies, offices and agencies should also be involved in the preparation of the evaluation of national judicial systems. particular attention should be paid to the effective management of cases with a cross-border dimension. these cases are necessarily more complex than strictly national cases, but we lack data in this respect. the provision of legal training in union and comparative law is particularly important here, as it increases mutual understanding and, consequently, mutual trust.
in writing. - this report, drawn up on the initiative of my green german colleague elisabeth schroedter, deals with smart energy networks as a stimulus for local and regional development. it is based on good examples from a number of regions and communities that are at the forefront of the energy transition: from fossil fuel dependence to energy independence based on renewable energy and smart grids! the examples from these regions are very convincing. the report thus shows the benefits and opportunities of smart grids for regional economies. energy savings, boosting innovation, autonomy, and the introduction of smart energy networks. in the latter, a smart grid is part of a regional energy strategy with decentralised renewable energy sources, smart storage solutions, energy efficiency measures, and links with other sectors (such as transport, housing and urban planning). energy consumers thus become both consumers and producers. this creates local employment, both direct and indirect, and expertise in the region. very good examples of the green economy. it is important that the data generated in this way is well protected. the report also stresses the need for a stable long-term policy framework for energy and climate change. the report thus provides a very good framework for regions to participate in the energy transition. i'm with you.
in writing. challenges need to be addressed to implement smarter energy systems in european regions. it is possible to make regions and communities more sustainable across europe. through joint efforts, the model regions, islands and communities mentioned in this presentation will no longer be pioneers, but will become the reality of a more prosperous, sustainable and energy independent european union.
in the case of the small farmers, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the farmers are not left behind. these farms are mostly family-run and face strong demographic, commercial and technological pressures. this pressure is leading to a tendency towards the decline of small farms. i very much welcome this report, which seeks to counter this negative trend and to improve the prospects of small farms. the committee also calls for greater consideration of the specific needs and problems of small farms in the context of the common agricultural policy. member states should develop appropriate solutions that sustainably enhance the competitiveness, profitability and earning capacity of small farms. the commission also calls for better organisation of free advice for the needs of small farms, simplification of information, training, risk assessment and health monitoring procedures, dissemination of good practice in the short food supply chain and provision of technical assistance in applying for eu support. support for small farmers not only safeguards existing jobs and creates new ones, but also counteracts population decline, promotes sustainable agriculture and thus has a positive impact on entire regions.
in writing. it can be said that in periods of economic growth and low unemployment, labour is drawn from agriculture, hence an acceleration in the implementation of technologies that reduce labour requirements and change agricultural structures. in contrast, in times of economic recession, such as the one currently affecting the southern eu member states, labour is reabsorbed into agriculture, which serves as a buffer against the level of unemployment in the cities. from an economic point of view this is a positive situation, but if the scale of migration from the countryside and agriculture due to the replacement of labour by capital is large and sustainable, this phenomenon can lead to a strengthening of the depopulation situation and, consequently, to the withering away of the countryside and the places of life in rural areas.
in writing. the fragmentation of delivery systems and the lack of guarantees for cross-border deliveries undermine consumer confidence in online national and cross-border trade. the commission's green paper on the subject highlighted specific concerns about the current supply chain for online trade in the internal market, which is not fully or adequately developed. the s&d group supports the development of both the digital single market and e-commerce more generally. however, stronger consumer protection, high-quality services and responsible employment policies are needed to develop an eu-wide electronic parcel delivery system that benefits consumers, workers and businesses.
in writing. as rapporteur for my group on the employment committee's opinion on this report on the future of the steel industry, i welcome its adoption because it largely takes up the elements of that opinion, which i had proposed or supported: firstly, the strengthening of the social dialogue to better anticipate restructuring; secondly, the coordination of member states' strategy within a common industrial policy which puts an end to social dumping between member states of the union; which strengthens the defence of the interests of the european steel industry in international trade negotiations; and which makes better use of european funds for the qualification or requalification of steel workers (the european social fund and the european globalisation adjustment fund); and, thirdly, a balanced energy and climate policy which would not impose on european steel companies the exorbitant costs of other global areas. if i am disappointed in the final report, it is the very positive reference to state aid, whereas the opinion of the employment committee rightly called for it to be adapted to allow public investment in a sector which is strategic for the union, just as the major industrial powers of the world do.
in writing. yes europe must do more to revitalise the steel industry. not because it is a declining sector, which has seen its share of world production halved and, above all, has seen almost 65 000 jobs disappear, but because steel is at the heart of european economic activity. it is also a major employer, with 350 000 direct jobs and several million more in related sectors. steelmaking has a long tradition in many industrialised regions of europe, such as wallonia, and this know-how must be used. it is time for the regions concerned to rethink their model and to focus on a competitive and sustainable steel industry. this necessarily requires the creation of a virtuous circle aimed at reducing the exceptionally high cost of energy and raw materials through a harmonised energy policy that is less dependent on imports and at promoting the deployment of low-carbon energy sources in order to encourage their rapid integration into the electricity market. supporting demand through the strategic development of key steel-using sectors such as construction, automotive and transport infrastructure is equally essential.
in writing. the european steel industry has lost more than 65 000 jobs in recent years due to plant closures. the recovery in domestic demand is not expected to take place in the short term, and the world market share of european firms is declining. the european steel industry is threatened by a loss of competitiveness.
we want to make the banks themselves responsible for any mistakes and excessive risks they may make or take in the future, not the taxpayer. that is why we must complete our banking union with a settlement mechanism that is truly unified. we have clearly set out the signs in our report to the economic committee. we want, first of all, a decision-making process which can, if necessary, be completed over the weekend. the council has agreed on a very complex system which cannot cope with this. moreover, the council is opting for a highly politicized decision-making procedure with voting modalities that de facto give a veto to large member states, and that too is unacceptable. secondly, we want a single fund with bank money, which is embedded in a community framework and which can be used efficiently. and that is very different from the intergovernmental national compartmentalised system of the council. the council's formula, mr president, is far too risky in that the taxpayer - especially the taxpayer of the small member states - will still have to step in during the first ten years. moreover, banks located in large member states will be favoured over banks located in small member states, which is contrary to the internal market philosophy; it's gonna be very hard to restore trust. i therefore call on the council to play by the rules of the treaty, to look carefully at what we are asking and to meet our expectations.
mr president, i will not repeat to mr venizelos what all my colleagues have said because i share their opinion. mr venizelos, i would just like to ask you one thing: since your political future may be, let’s say, clouded, surely you now have little to lose by at long last trying to muster a coalition of those in the council who believe that the capital of the european union is not berlin, but brussels? in other words, everyone knows that this ‘no deal’ achieved in the council in december was reached at the behest of germany. we all know that there are a few member states which are prepared to stand up individually and say that this will not work. maybe now is the time to show a little courage and say to germany that europe is more than just one country and that wisdom is not something that has only been bestowed on the leaders of one country.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, i promised you a case of champagne if we had a financial transaction tax before the end of the parliamentary term. i don't know if i'll have the pleasure of keeping my promise, but, in any case, i hope i can, and so, of course, we're with you. i would like to turn again to the council representative, mr venizelos. i know you want this project too, but, saprissa, it's time for the council to stop hiding behind its shadow. i am basically aware that there are a number of member states which, in front of their citizens, say that they are very interested in this tax but in reality do not want it. i am thinking in particular of france, where there is much talk of wanting it, but behind the scenes the bercy establishment is opposed to the very principle of a tax. i just want to answer werner langen. when a bank engages in financial speculation - which is bad for the economy - it is legitimate to make it pay the price for its speculation. but when it is a reputable company in the real economy sector that speculates, it is a good thing. do you think that's normal? i would remind you, mr langen, that many companies, including a number of german companies, increase their profits by financial speculation and thus transform themselves into financial companies. i don't see how it would be wrong for them to pay the price for the financial speculation they want to do. it is not normal for a market activity to be, in reality, implicitly subsidized by the taxpayers. if today the speculation of these companies is being fuelled by implicit public subsidies, it is time that this was stopped and that they paid the right price for this speculation. will it make their speculation more expensive? yes, you are! and that's a good thing! there's no reason! if lufthansa's business is to fly planes, then it is not speculating on the financial markets! (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". but of course it's the banks that are going to put the money on the table! they're the ones speculating, aren't they? the argument that it is the small taxpayer, the small citizen, the small consumer who will pay the tax is obviously a big piece of nonsense! i would remind you, however, that the rates we are talking about are 0.1% on the nominal value of equity transactions and 0.01% - that is to say, one ten-thousandth of the nominal value of derivatives transactions. you're not going to tell me that small consumers, small citizens are using these products so intensively that it's going to cost them a bridge? that's obviously not true. these are things that are said to frighten the people and, in fact, to protect special interests. so, mr. langen, i'm not buying into any...
i'm the reporter. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what climate and energy ambitions do we want to set for ourselves for the period 2020-2030? clearly, we will have different opinions on this matter. it's normal, it's the democratic game. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank the co-rapporteur, mr konrad szymański, and all the fictitious rapporteurs who have enabled us to work effectively on this dossier. some of our views will therefore differ, as will those expressed in the council or even in the commission until it submits its communication to us on 22 january. i am not going to go into detail about this communication, commissioners. i know that we are coming a long way and that it could have been even less ambitious, but i find it particularly worrying in its notion of new governance applied to the renewable objective. while i am very keen to give member states more flexibility, it is neither necessary nor acceptable to renationalize competences acquired at european level. i must confess that i am concerned about that. i hope you'll reassure me, and i hope the future will prove me wrong. let us now turn to the report itself. the most crucial question for me is how we are going to reduce the costs, the energy prices that weigh heavily on business, on industry and most especially on our citizens. the overall picture today is of course worrying. the european union imports nearly €400 billion in net costs each year, so if we want to reduce our energy imports, we need to produce more in europe by exploiting our resources in a sustainable, efficient and responsible way. in short, as i have said before, the wider the range of energy we have, the more we are pushing down prices, i am convinced. and i also believe that combining a broad energy mix with greater energy efficiency, that is, with the will to consume more optimally, is the best combination, i believe, to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, to spur innovation, to spur new technologies, to create jobs, to transform our economies into greener economies. that is why, as a co-rapporteur, i have always advocated from the outset a three-objective approach, which was also based on the results of the commission's impact study, which clearly states that a three-objective policy compared to a one-objective scenario would bring the european union a gdp gain of 0.53%, which is just under €70 billion. it is still a sobering thought, i think, in times of crisis. understand me well, i am not going to give a blank check to the continuation of the 20-20-20 climate package as it exists today. some of the shortcomings and imperfections in the current regulatory framework, for example in relation to subsidies and support measures, need to be addressed. we need a gradual reduction in the aid granted to mature technologies, including renewable technologies. as regards our competitiveness, i think it is important to reduce the negative interference of the different objectives. i see. and even if it is not in the report, i also believe that in relation to the directive on the allocation of effort, more flexibility should be introduced and not just a ratio to the gdp of each member state to be able to share responsibilities, but also to introduce the efforts that have been made by each member state. finally, ladies and gentlemen, we have commitments to respect. i am thinking not only of the roadmap to 2050, but also of the responsibilities to be taken.
the answer is "blue card". - mrs hibner, i would like to say that perhaps you should first read the more than 200 pages of the commission's impact study and you will see that the meaning of these three binding objectives is terribly quantified and very concretely specified. because, really, the various scenarios have been analyzed thoroughly. and you'll see, for example, in terms of gdp -- which is still quite important in times of crisis -- what it can bring to us. so yes, i do believe that this makes sense and i would add that in this debate i think it is very important not to have a national vision, which would give us a very truncated vision of things, but a vision for 28 member states.
member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to make three points. for those of us who have attended this debate in parliament, and even more so for the rapporteur, i hope that what is in this report can be the common denominator of this parliament tomorrow. it is not just that we can hear that this is a very split parliament, but it is also clear that the split goes down into party groups and into national delegations, which shows how challenging this has become. my second point is yes, it is true, europe today accounts for around 11% of global emissions, but when you account for 11% of global emissions that does not mean that you do not have a responsibility to deliver your fair contribution to the international table. but that is not the only reason why the commission has presented this package. at present, europe is the region of the world most dependent on imported fossil fuels. that is why it makes a lot of sense – economic sense, as well as sense when it comes to competitiveness and jobs – that we get a better energy policy for europe, that we focus more on efficiency, on renewables and on alternative sources. it is somehow strange that those who are so preoccupied with the energy bills of european citizens – as many of us are – that they never make a point of the more than eur 500 billion that the eu’s member states each year pour into putin’s russia and the different regimes in the middle east and elsewhere from which we import our fossil fuels? there are more reasons than just the international climate negotiations why we should address these kinds of issues, and if you read the package that we presented from the commission it is clear that this is one aspect; but the other aspects are also very much present. my third point is to bas eickhout, who said that it is difficult to combine being ambitious and being realistic. well, it might be difficult to combine, but to do exactly that – combining what is ambitious with what is realistic – is basically what politics is all about. is 40% domestic ambitious? we had 20% up to 2020. if all member states do everything they say they plan to do, we could reach 23/24. one quarter of that will come through offsetting. now we are saying that without offsetting we are going to 40% in the following decade. i just have to say that i am not sure that those who say this is not ambitious have really grasped how challenging this is going to be. i also have to say in this parliament that in the commission we have not heard one government arguing in favour of more than 40% domestic. not one. whereas we have heard several argue in favour of less. that is how it looks, that is the political picture, and i would only say to those of us who want ambition, including ambition in fighting climate change, that the test is whether we can also get it through, so that europe can very soon send a signal to the world and play the role that we must play if the world is to try to get an international framework to combat climate change in place by 2015. it would be very helpful if tomorrow this parliament adopted the report that we have been discussing today.
member of the commission. - mr president, i have to go. i am very grateful for the many comments and also for the constructive and critical suggestions. i want to go into three very shortly. it doesn't seem clear whether we need one target or three or two. the first is clear: the reduction of co2 emissions. i think there are also a lot of implications for renewable energy and energy efficiency. but we should continue to pursue an independent energy efficiency policy and not just rely on the fact that reducing co2 emissions automatically leads to less energy waste, less energy consumption and more accurate energy use. the energy efficiency label should be a label for the european strategy for the next decade. we shall have to debate in the autumn whether we should declare a binding target or set out various measures, whether we should put energy intensity in the foreground or whether we should set absolute figures for energy consumption. but to let the energy efficiency directive 2020 expire and to blame everything on the co2 reduction would be too little for me. the same applies to renewable energy sources. when you say co2 reductions, you're making a real claim. i would like to make it clear that we, as the commission, are neutral in relation to nuclear energy. we are sure that in the next decade, in the next decades, nuclear power will play a role in the european electricity mix - from 28% today in the eu-28, in ten, twenty years in any case, much more than 20%, i estimate even more than 25%. it is only if we have no targets for renewable energy in addition to co2 emissions reduction and, conversely, nuclear power receives indirect guarantees through feed-in tariffs that the balance between two equally emission-friendly but completely opposite technologies - nuclear power and renewable energy sources - does not seem to me to be maintained. that is why i am in favour of continuing our policy on renewable energies with a binding target at european level. mr leinen said that was not ambitious. but at least 27%, if you look at all the sectors - transport, heating, electricity - will only be achievable if we produce at least 45% renewable energy in the electricity sector - at least 45%! that means that in our future electricity mix, almost half will come from wind, solar, geothermal, biomass and hydropower. that's ambitious! i would argue that if we set this value, europe will be on track to produce more storm renewably than any other continent in the world. to get acceptance for this, we need instruments. that is why mr leinen was right when he said that we need better governance. the european budget is helping to do this. we are promoting renewable energy through expertise and analysis, through research, through funding, through networks and infrastructure. in conclusion, i believe that we also need a european support system. a european system for the timely and degressive marketing and promotion of renewable energy. but not 28 separate times, but once european. i believe that's part of it. the last point: the subject of nuclear energy and the united kingdom was raised. we will examine this without prejudice. we want the single market to be as strong as possible. security of supply is even more important than the single market. so, avoiding blackouts, having a secure power supply, is paramount. but we are currently looking at whether there are other ways of maintaining security of supply in the uk with new investment and nuclear not necessarily requiring a feed-in tariff for 35 years. and since this is the first comparable case that would certainly trigger follow-up requests in the united kingdom, hungary, poland and other countries, it is being examined particularly thoroughly. i am happy to be in contact with the interested members of the house so that our debate and that of mr almunia on the question of the internal market and security of supply, on the example of the united kingdom, will be able to reach the right conclusion.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. of course, we remain divided, but we knew that from the beginning. i would like to return to something that i think is important. no, the objective of this climate and energy framework is not just to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. no, i'm not going. there's more to it than that. i agree with mr chris davies that we need to promote a low-carbon, low-cost economy. but what is meant by low-carbon and low-cost economy is also meant by "new technologies, innovation, employment". and do you think that a single greenhouse gas reduction target will address these challenges? what about jobs, new technology, innovation? no, make no mistake about it. i really believe that the three-pronged approach has many and varied benefits. i would like to stress that the energy efficiency criterion is the most important in terms of its contribution to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. a single target of 40% energy efficiency by 2030 would allow us to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 50% and achieve a 35% share of renewable energy in our energy production without any additional measures. i don't have one. the figures are 40, 50 or 60 per cent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. i don't want to get into a numbers battle. i'm not thinking, "who's going to say it better?" i think we need to be ambitious, but clearly realistic. for my part, i continue to promote the 40% target in the roadmap for 2050. i will simply conclude by saying that 2030 is not tomorrow, but that we must have a short-term, medium-term and long-term vision. tomorrow, when you vote, please don't throw the baby out with the bath water! have a vision that is perhaps a little less ideological, but much more pragmatic!
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to begin by thanking our rapporteur, mr georges bach, because i think he has done an excellent job of finding the balance between the legitimate demands of passengers and the concerns of airlines. it has created clarity and transparency, and i think that was the most important and the first task we had, because there were various decisions of the european court of justice. i think they have been very well integrated into this text. the difficulty in the whole procedure we are discussing here is to assess correctly whether the compensation is also commensurate with the damage. a good compensation, such as eur 600, if the flight is cancelled completely, may not make the passenger happier if he no longer has a flight. this is what we wanted to take into account in the work of georges bach and what he took into account. it is also not the case that someone who booked cheap flights for eur 20 will then receive compensation of eur 400. that was the view of certain members of this house. on the subject of extraordinary circumstances, here is an appeal to the airlines. i believe that this legislation also has a european added value if there is common sense on both sides and not just exceptional circumstances are used on every occasion to avoid paying certain compensation. but the most important thing for me is the information for the passenger. the information before he booked, the information that you can read especially on the internet, so you don't have to read 20 pages to know if you can take one or two suitcases and how big and how heavy it is. i think that has now been stated in a more precise way. the second is that the passenger has a point of contact where he can be informed, where he can seek compensation and exercise his rights. all that is now given. the proposal now before us is a valuable addition for everyone - for airlines too, i think, and certainly for european legislation and european passengers!
president, vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today a very important matter which is helping our european citizens in a very concrete way and is also bringing europe into the limelight in a positive way, namely the matter of passenger rights. the 2004 regulation required a major facelift due to the many loopholes in the legislation, the different interpretations given to it and the judgments of the court of justice. i think that under the leadership of my colleague, rapporteur bach, and with the help of the shadow rapporteurs and others, we have come to a clearer and better legislation. the right to compensation for delays, not just cancellations, is an important development. in this context, it is of course essential to define very clearly what is meant by 'exceptional circumstances'. and that's well covered in the legislation. but perhaps even more important is that people are helped when they're in trouble, when they're facing problems. then it's how they're informed if something goes wrong. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these kinds of things are being recorded much more clearly now. and i think that's an important step forward. in short, if we look at the commission's proposal and certainly at the existing regulation, we can say that parliament has done an excellent job. we have a very good basis to work on. the ball is now in the council's court and we hope that they will adopt the pro-passenger attitude that we have been advocating.
in writing. passenger rights are strengthened: no more airline runway closures! delayed or cancelled flights, missed connections, damaged or lost luggage: for all these inconveniences and many more, the european passenger will now be much better protected, better informed and also better reimbursed. passengers are finding it increasingly difficult to assert their rights when airlines do not comply with the law. to put an end to the runway shutoff of many airlines, we have considerably strengthened passenger rights and access to remedies! in conclusion, with almost one billion passengers flying to europe each year for work or leisure, airline practices needed to be put in order and consumer rights strengthened!
president. - the member states have to do this, the member states have to do that. the commission is also proposing common rules for seasonal workers from outside the eu. the directive does provide that member states may decide for the time being on the number of seasonal workers they allow. but this will only be theoretical, because the abolition of internal frontiers will allow these new immigrants to move from one member state to another without any problem and without having to worry about the limited validity of their visas. in other words, this directive opens the door wide to even more illegal immigration and to even more social dumping. and it is ultimately the weakest in our society who will be the first to suffer. there are already more than 26 million unemployed in the eu. let us first get these people back into the labour market. let the member states regain the ability and the right to organise their own labour markets and control their own borders.
madam president, article 6.2 concerns the three trigger points from which a passenger is entitled to get compensation after a delay. to avoid confusion, the first one should cover all intra-european flights and therefore we need to replace the figure 2 500 kilometres by 3 500 kilometres. article 6.2(a) would therefore read as follows: ‘three hours or more after the scheduled time of arrival for all journeys of 3 500 kilometres or less’. obviously, article 6.2(b) would be amended accordingly. i take it that the rapporteur agrees with this and i thank him for his indulgence.
in writing. i voted for this text, of course. we strongly encourage member states to decouple migration policies from health, education and prosecution of crimes against undocumented migrants. access to basic health care and education and protection of physical integrity are fundamental rights, and undocumented migrants are entitled to them regardless of their legal status or residence. thus, migrants should be able to access these basic services and report abusers to the police without fear of arrest and deportation.
in writing. for the first time since the treaty of lisbon, we are adopting common rules on legal immigration. by adopting the report on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of seasonal employment in the union, we wanted to harmonise the conditions of entry and residence and the rights of more than 100 000 seasonal workers per year. they will enjoy better living and working conditions, including social protection, adequate housing and a minimum wage. this report, based on solidarity between member states and cooperation with third countries, will make it possible to manage migration flows more soundly, in the interests not only of the host countries but also of the countries of origin and of the migrants themselves.
in writing. - despite the fact that we had a more ambitious content in mind for this directive, i voted for it because it represents a first major step (not least for the council) in a legal migration scheme for (often low-skilled) seasonal workers. the positive aspects are a clear definition of seasonal work, a good delimitation of the scope and clear rules on residence, visas and working conditions with the right to equal treatment. for example, employers will have to create the same working conditions as for local workers in terms of working hours, leave and safety conditions at work. seasonal workers have the same right to strike, the same access to services and the same pension rights. training and education is a right, although member states may limit it to training linked to specific work activities. it is also important that employers who do not respect these agreements can be sanctioned. in the case of subcontracting, the main contractor is also responsible. finally, it is stated that the cost of accommodation should not be excessive in relation to the net income and the quality of the accommodation. in addition, the rent cannot be automatically deducted from the income and a separate lease must be drawn up. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied.
in writing. the proposed directive is an integral part of a package of measures on legal migration (alongside the rules on intra-corporate transfers, students, researchers and au pairs, which are yet to be agreed). the s&d group welcomes the fact that our negotiator, mr claude moraes, was able to secure agreement on the first legal migration instrument geared towards low-skilled and low-wage jobs, and that this agreement will be the first part of the 'package' on legal migration to be adopted. as always, the text presented at first reading is a compromise, but it incorporates many significant advances for the european parliament in general and for the s&d group in particular.
in writing. given the current situation of tuna fishing and marketing, particularly with regard to valuable species such as bluefin tuna and bigeye tuna, the current complexity of iccat measures to control fishing and marketing shows that iuu fishing is still a significant problem for tuna and related species in the atlantic. it's too early to let our guard down. in this context, it is important to note that cambodia was flagged by the commission in its decision of 15 november 2012 in accordance with regulation (ec) no 1005/2008 on iuu fishing as a non-cooperating country.
in writing. the conclusion of this protocol is positive in more than one respect: in addition to strengthening the links between the union and gabon, it introduces new control instruments in the fight against illegal fishing (through the establishment of a satellite vessel monitoring system and a new electronic communication system); it is in line with a sustainable development policy, in accordance with the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (icsat); finally, it allows the development of the workforce along the coast by providing aid to coastal communities and small freezing and processing enterprises. in practical terms, while this agreement is beneficial for gabon, it is also beneficial for the union by giving 27 purse seiners and 8 reelers the opportunity to fish for tuna and other highly migratory species in gabon's exclusive economic zone (eez) for a reference tonnage of 20 000 tonnes per year, compared with 11 000 previously.
in writing. it is important to stress that the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and gabon should promote, in the medium term, the exploitation by gabon of its own fisheries resources both for internal consumption, in line with the needs of the population, and for export, which increases the added value of fishing activities and, therefore, increases the share of wealth remaining in the country. in this context, the landing rules that have been established are far from this objective. it is therefore suggested that conditions be created to enable the port and processing facilities for tuna to become operational as soon as possible, so that catches made in gabonese waters are, as a rule, landed in gabonese ports.
in writing. with global warming, greenland, an overseas country and territory (oct), is becoming a strategic and economic challenge for many powers in search of new natural resources and new waterways. close to the union, it is coveted by neighbouring countries such as norway, russia and canada, as well as countries such as china. according to the usgs, the arctic has estimated potential reserves of 13% of the world's oil and 30% of the world's natural gas, or 80 000 billion cubic metres of gas and 200 billion barrels of oil. the gradual thawing of the arctic also makes it easier to navigate for much of the year, opening up the possibility of a viable sea corridor between europe, asia and the americas. in this context, it was time to establish a new partnership that would help diversify its economy in a sustainable way.
in writing. i believe that the union's financial support should be directed towards programmes for the human and social development of greenland rather than the economic development of the territory, as the vast development opportunities in the field of exploration and exploitation of natural resources, including gas and oil, will attract the necessary private investment, or loans from the european investment bank, without any public funding being required. on this point, i would like to stress the need to adopt all the necessary preventive measures so that the exploitation of greenland's natural resources is based on strict criteria of environmental sustainability, in order to protect the fragile ecosystem of the area.
in writing. storm tides, forest fires, river floods and flash floods are among the main risks of natural disasters in europe. the damage caused by these disasters is not only human but also economic. in order to avoid paying a price in human, environmental and economic lives, we must pay greater attention to precautionary measures and, consequently, improve prevention. as kristalina georgieva, commissioner for humanitarian aid and crisis response, said, "well-designed insurance policies can be a market-based instrument to discourage risky behaviour, raise awareness and integrate disaster prevention into economic and financial decisions".
in writing. i voted in favour of the text because i believe that a flexible market for natural disaster insurance would allow insurance companies to adapt their products to different conditions, and i believe that a non-compulsory framework is the best way to develop products that correspond to natural risks in a given geographical area.
in writing. i regret again the attempts to destabilise some people on this agenda, because these shameful demonstrations have only the effect of discrediting european politics.
in writing. we have voted on the appointment of the vice-chair of the supervisory board of the european central bank in order to present the best candidate.
in writing. after concluding cooperation agreements on competition with the united states, canada, japan and south korea, the commission has just concluded a first 'second generation' agreement with switzerland. unlike previous agreements, this agreement includes provisions on the exchange of evidence collected by competition authorities in the course of investigations into the same case, which will contribute to more effective enforcement of competition law.
in writing. we are convinced of the need for such an agreement with switzerland, given the country's strategic geographical location for the european union, the presence in switzerland of many european companies and vice versa, and the number of parallel investigations conducted by the two courts in recent years. i also believe that the implementation of this agreement will be facilitated by the high degree of compatibility of the substantive rules of the union and switzerland on competition.
in writing. we call on the commission to help develop codes of conduct for private actors involved in the trade in military equipment, in line with the un guiding principles on business and human rights. we strongly encourage the european arms industry to contribute to efforts to support the implementation of the treaty in an open and transparent manner, including, where appropriate, through public-private partnerships, and to promote compliance with the treaty, in particular through enhanced accountability obligations and the obligation arising from the accountability to prevent illicit arms transfers.
in writing. this afternoon, parliament adopted a text to better defend europe against dumped and subsidised imports from non-eu countries. it was time to adapt the 1995 legislation. in the space of 20 years, the world has changed dramatically, trade has increased and new economic powers have emerged. i supported this report because it is unacceptable to allow countries like china to flout the basic rules of the wto with impunity. by subsidizing its exports by 10% for over a year now, beijing is widening the trade deficit of other countries. europe can no longer stand idly by, let alone be divided as it was in the case of photovoltaics. she's got to punch and learn to get respect. it is essential to increase the effectiveness of trade defence instruments, but also to make them more accessible to smes. instead of tapping on the fingers of a much more reliable partner, such as the united states, the union would do better to be more strict with china, which does not hesitate to ignore one of the basic principles of liberalism: free trade.
in writing. we agree with the commission's objectives. efficiency, reduction of threats of retaliation, transparency and predictability are highly commendable objectives which, when combined, ensure public confidence in the instrument. the rapporteur does not want to go beyond these objectives in substance, but he does identify areas where these objectives can be strengthened by providing answers to the questions raised above.
in writing. regulation (ec) no 1224/2009 contains a number of elements which will need to be reviewed in the light of their impracticability. the requirements for traceability and landing declarations, to name but a few examples, lead to a number of undesirable effects which could be avoided by adapting the articles concerned more closely to the practical realities of everyday fishing. these issues and the necessary alignment of the control regulation with the reform of the cfp will be addressed in a forthcoming and urgent review.
in writing. this report amends a commission proposal for a recast of directive 94/9/ec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to equipment and protective systems intended for use in potentially explosive atmospheres. this was presented in november 2011 as part of the implementation of the new legislative framework adopted in 2008, in the form of the 'product package' bringing together the complementary instruments of decision no 768/2008/ec on a common framework for the marketing of products and repealing decision 93/465/eec and regulation (ec) no 765/2008 of the european parliament and of the council of 9 july 2008 setting out the requirements for accreditation and market surveillance relating to the marketing of products and repealing council regulation (eec) no 339/93. it is one of a series of proposals to align the text of nine 'produced' directives with the new legislative framework.
in writing. the report amends a commission proposal for a recast of council directive 93/15/eec on the harmonization of the provisions relating to the placing on the market and supervision of explosives for civil use. this was presented in november 2011 as part of the implementation of the new legislative framework (nlf), adopted in 2008 as the 'products package' which brings together the complementary instruments of decision no 768/2008/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 9 july 2008 on a common framework for the marketing of products and repealing council decision 93/465/eec and regulation (ec) no 765/2008 of the european parliament and of the council of 9 july 2008 laying down requirements for the accreditation and market surveillance of products and repealing council regulation (eec) no 339/93. it is one of a series of proposals to align the text of nine product directives with the nomenclature of national product lines.
in writing. this report amends a european commission proposal which revises directive 2009/23/ec on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to the making available on the market of non-automatic weighing instruments. this was presented in november 2011 as part of the implementation of the new legislative framework (nlf) adopted in 2008, as a 'product package' which brings together the complementary instruments of decision no 768/2008/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 9 july 2008 on a common framework for the marketing of products and repealing council decision 93/465/eec and regulation (ec) no 765/2008 of the european parliament and of the council of 9 july 2008 laying down requirements for the accreditation and market surveillance of products and repealing council regulation (eec) no 339/93. it is one of a series of proposals to align the text of nine product directives with the nomenclature of national product lines.
in writing. this report amends a proposal by the commission for a recast of directive 2004/108/ec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to electromagnetic compatibility. this was presented in november 2011 as part of the implementation of the new legislative framework adopted in 2008 in the form of the 'product package' bringing together the complementary instruments of decision no 768/2008/ec on a common framework for the marketing of products and repealing decision 93/465/eec and regulation (ec) no 765/2008 of the european parliament and of the council of 9 july 2008 setting out the requirements for accreditation and market surveillance relating to the marketing of products and repealing council regulation (eec) no 339/93. it is one of a series of proposals to align the text of nine product directives with the new legislative framework.
in writing. this report amends a commission proposal for a recast of directive 2006/95/ec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to electrical equipment designed for use within certain voltage limits. this was submitted in november 2011 as part of the implementation of the new legislative framework (nlf), adopted in 2008 as the products package, which brings together the complementary instruments of decision no 768/2008/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 9 july 2008 on a common framework for the marketing of products and repealing council decision 93/465/eec and regulation (ec) no 765/2008 of the european parliament and of the council of 9 july 2008 laying down requirements for the accreditation and market surveillance of products and repealing council regulation (eec) no 339/93. it is one of a series of proposals to align the text of nine 'produced' directives with the nomenclature of national living conditions.
in writing. this report amends a commission proposal for a recast of directive 95/16/ec on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to lifts. it was presented in november 2011 as part of the implementation of the new legislative framework adopted in 2008 as a legislative 'package' on products, covering the complementary instruments, decision 768/2008/ec on a common framework for the marketing of products, and repealing council decision 93/465/eec and regulation (ec) no 765/2008 of the european parliament and of the council laying down requirements for accreditation and market surveillance relating to the marketing of products and repealing regulation (eec) no 339/93. this proposal is part of a package, bringing nine product directives into line with the ncl. the current directive 95/16/ec lays down the essential health and safety requirements that lifts and safety components for lifts must meet in order to be placed on the union market.
in writing. this report amends a commission proposal to recast directive 2009/105/ec on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to the making available on the market of simple pressure vessels. this was submitted in november 2011 as part of the implementation of the new legislative framework (nlf), adopted in 2008 as the products package, which brings together the complementary instruments of decision no 768/2008/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 9 july 2008 on a common framework for the marketing of products and repealing council decision 93/465/eec and regulation (ec) no 765/2008 of the european parliament and of the council of 9 july 2008 laying down requirements for the accreditation and market surveillance of products and repealing council regulation (eec) no 339/93. it is one of a series of proposals to align the text of nine product directives with the nomenclature of national product lines.
in writing. i voted in favour of this recast of the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to the making available on the market of measuring instruments
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the 'exceptional circumstances' interpreted at the discretion of the airlines are clarified, as are the rules on compensation. compensation for 3 hours delay for an intra-european flight and 5 hours for a non-eu flight could be provided and a point of contact would have to be provided by the airlines to assist passengers and inform them within 30 minutes of the scheduled departure time of the aircraft. also, you're done taking passengers hostage by locking them for over two hours in a plane stuck on the tarmac. other changes proposed by parliament include the possibility of using the return flight without having to take the outward flight and the need to hide personal effects or to stack them in one piece of hand luggage. all these rights could soon become a reality - if the council and the commission, which are closer to industry, follow the european parliament! i didn't win!
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in respect of the carriage of goods by air. the commission proposal is a revision of existing legislation on air passenger rights and is mainly geared to the interests of airlines and airports. the commission proposal would only allow passengers to be compensated if their flight is delayed by at least five hours, whereas the european court of justice has recently ruled that passengers should be compensated for three hours of delay. the european parliament follows this ruling and proposes compensation for three hours' delay, depending on the distance. the definition of 'extraordinary circumstances', which is used by airlines to avoid compensation, is also narrowed. passengers will be insured so that they do not lose their rights when airlines go bankrupt. air carriers will have to demonstrate that they have taken sufficient measures to compensate passengers for cancellation of their flights in the event of bankruptcy. the commission has also proposed the creation of an independent mediation body to mediate in civil-passenger disputes. these are all advantages for the passenger and that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. "flight delay or cancellation, missed connections, damaged or lost luggage: for all these inconveniences and many more, the european passenger will now be much better protected, better informed and also better reimbursed". passengers are finding it increasingly difficult to enforce their rights when airlines do not comply with the law. "to put an end to the runway shutoff of many airlines, we have considerably strengthened passenger rights and access to remedies!"
in writing. adequate solutions should be proposed to deal with the insolvency of groups of undertakings. in its own-initiative legislative report, parliament asked the commission to present a flexible proposal to regulate the insolvency of groups of companies, distinguishing between groups with a fairly clear structure and decentralised groups. the commission is not following parliament's recommendations at the moment but is working to improve the coordination and communication of the various insolvency procedures. well-designed and coordinated insolvency procedures can help avoid the liquidation of groups and promote better asset recovery and job preservation.
mr president, i would like to make a point of order, because baroness ashton is once again absent in this important debate. we have a debate on ukraine, we have a debate on syria and we have a debate on egypt. i, along with a number of colleagues, can no longer accept that, every time, baroness ashton has a reason for not being here. i know that she is on the way to kiev, but perhaps it would be better if she came here first. it does not make any difference whether she gets there in the morning or in the evening. if she thinks that the ukrainian crisis can be solved in 20 hours, then she is the only one who thinks so. i think it would be possible for her to come here, discuss the strategy to follow in the ukraine with us, and then go to kiev. she would be there the same day. strasbourg is not on the other side of the world. strasbourg is here in europe.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, in the past few weeks we have made enough statements and issued enough press releases about ukraine, and made enough speeches also in ukraine but, commissioner füle, what i do not see is a credible strategy on ukraine. i do not see what i would call an action-based strategy capable of really changing things in ukraine and stopping the violence. such a strategy can, however, be put forward and it should contain three elements. the first element, to put it somewhat bluntly, is to load the gun. we have to prepare a number of target sanctions against the regime and against individual members of the regime. i am thinking, for example, of banning individuals from travelling to europe, restricting their visas and, most importantly, freezing their assets. the last of these, the freezing of assets, is the most crucial. the three sanctions, naturally, must go hand in hand with positive measures towards ukraine: a visa-free regime for all ordinary ukrainians, for example. that is the first thing to do. are we preparing such sanctions – yes, or no? once that is taken care of, you can move to the second part of your strategy: once a sanction gun is loaded, we have to prepare to use it if mr yanukovych does not comply immediately with the rules of democracy and reason. in my opinion, that means releasing immediately the imprisoned protestors, organising early elections for a new parliament and a new president, and then restoring the constitution of 2004. why? because this will result in a better democratic balance between the parliament and the powers of the president. thirdly, we need a new strategy, with a substantial financial assistance package, to support the ukrainian economy: a strategy capable of countering the negative impact of russian pressure. what we need, commissioner füle, is not new press releases or new resolutions but a credible strategy that can really help the ukrainian people to defend their dignity, because what they are defending is not only their dignity – they are also defending our european values and, at the same time, our european neighbourhood policy. if they leave the square, then the whole region will simply fall back into a new version of the old ussr. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – we have to react positively. i think the third sanction i mentioned – the freezing of their assets – is the most important. if you want to really change something, we have to freeze these assets. we do not have to do it now, but we have to prepare it. however, if yanukovych is not prepared to do what is necessary in terms of holding elections, declaring the new constitution in force and liberating prisoners, then we have to launch these sanctions and declare them applicable.
ladies and gentlemen, a regime that shoots its own citizens to death has lost the confidence of the people forever. but that trust was actually long gone, long before the maidan started. frustrations with the political elite have been deep for some time. even when i was in kiev, before the riots began, the leaders of the maidan made it clear to me that the street protest must sooner or later lead to a political solution based on genuine consultation and a willingness to compromise, and for that they are counting on us. the only way out is through genuine dialogue. we therefore support the efforts of mrs ashton and the commissioner to initiate this dialogue. we have no time to lose at a time when the pressure from moscow is so great. that is what we can offer ukraine in the short term. we owe it to the people, we owe it to the victims. but that does mean that the riot police must be withdrawn immediately, that prisoners must be released, that attacks on journalists and protesters must stop, but also that those responsible for that violence, for kidnappings, for torture must be punished. i am opposed to all forms of violence, including that of extremist gangs.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to say first of all that this will save me time for my speech and that i fully agree with mr danjean's speech. i also think there is a serious gap at european level. it's the lack of commitment when it comes to mobilizing human resources to go and secure or help a country. i would also like to congratulate france on its commitment to both the central african republic and mali. the political and security crises in the central african republic are causing an unprecedented human tragedy, with massive human rights violations, which is a threat not only to the central african republic but also to the whole region. i would also like to say that the security and political processes are two processes which must go hand in hand to reinforce each other. together, they should help stabilize the country and bring in humanitarian aid. on the political side, i think there is an interesting glimpse, namely the appointment of mrs catherine samba-panza, who seems to me to be the right person to try and lead this transition. so we have to help him massively. i'd like to make a small point. i often hear that there is a dependency between the implementation of the promised aid and the stabilization of security. you have to be very careful with that. i think that we must free up the means to give this state a semblance of existence, an institutional semblance to restore the great functions of the state. if we do not do this, we also miss an opportunity to respond to the security challenge. finally, one last thing. the misca is a good thing and an important step. i am convinced, however, that it does not have the capacity to carry out the security work fully and that the possibility of placing these troops under the responsibility of the united nations should therefore be considered.
the s&d group. madam president, the war in syria is going to continue. all analysts predict an unprecedented humanitarian catastrophe and a complete upheaval of the landscape of the middle east. the proxy war being waged by the foreign powers, through proxy fighters, is aimed at permanently altering the political and sectarian balance of power in the region. the risk of a wider outbreak is therefore enormous, but geneva ii was a responsible response on the part of the international community. the fact that the united states and russia have succeeded in persuading the belligerents to participate is an important but insufficient step. my group regrets that iran was not finally admitted and supports the efforts of lakhdar brahimi to turn the semi-failure of geneva into a sustainable negotiating process, emphasizing humanitarian aspects capable of rebuilding confidence. more than three million children in syria have been out of school for three years. this week, an unsustainable un report denounces the torture of children, sexual abuse and summary executions by the syrian armed forces and the belligerents. in yarmouk, the palestinians are in a desperate situation and to the pictures of the 5,000 syrians tortured and handed over to the media, we must add the slaughtered, the murdered, the kidnapped, both by the regime militias and by the terrorist groups which, alas, have infiltrated the opposition. to alleviate this immense suffering, not only money is needed, but above all political courage and determination. we must cut off the sources of funding that fuel terrorism. europe is not everything, but it is also not nothing on the international scene, as it has had the opportunity to show in the negotiations on the iranian nuclear programme. and i think syria is one region where she can make a difference.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, for me the geneva ii conference has proved one thing: that with bashar al-assad there will be no solution, ever, for syria. he refused to talk about a political way out of the crisis. he refused even to make a deal on homs and yarmouk – places where thousands of people are currently starving or dead. he also refused to end the blockade so that food could be taken into those cities. in the meantime, the assad regime is dropping barrel bombs on cities. at last we have seen the 55 000 horrible pictures of dead and mutilated bodies, and read the report by three former prosecutors on those 11 000 members of the opposition systematically killed and eliminated in the presence of assad. what words can you use for that? the only words i can find are ‘crimes against humanity’ – and the time has now come for us to bring bashar al-assad before the international criminal court, or at least to spell out the charges against him. what more do we need, i ask myself, to start that process? secondly, we must do everything within our means and our power to limit the suffering of the syrian people. eu humanitarian visas should be issued, not only by germany, france and austria, who have taken such a step already, but eu-wide in every country of the union. since 2001, we have also had the temporary protection directive in place. why do we not use it? why not also establish a regional protection programme? why not encourage visa facilitation? let us assume our responsibility towards the syrian refugees. as you know, there are in total 2.4 million: 400 000 were registered in january alone. what is europe doing? it is providing for 33 000! that is not even 1% of the total number of refugees. i find this shameful; i find it a disgrace. finally, commissioner füle, we in parliament have called two or three times already in resolutions for a european humanitarian conference on the syrian refugee crisis. the commission has backed the call. it was commissioner barnier who, during a debate, backed that idea. so when will the commission put before the council of ministers for foreign affairs, or the european council, a proposal to the effect that europe should finally assume its responsibility in this humanitarian crisis?
for the greens/efa group madam president, this is our sixth resolution on syria and its length is probably proportionate to our impotence. i am inspired by three points: firstly, it is a formula taken from the commercial sector: "while the work is being done, the sale continues". in this case, although there was no precondition for the start of geneva ii, despite the fact that it was agreed to start these talks anyway, it is difficult, if not unacceptable, for me and probably - i hope - for all of us to understand the bombing with barrel bombs that we saw in aleppo the day after the end of the first part of geneva ii. that is something that is very difficult to accept. so i think we should try to negotiate a ceasefire, perhaps without the syrians, between the americans and the russians, to give the process, which will resume in a few days, a chance. secondly, i think that the humanitarian tree should not hide the refugee forest. it is true that the situation - and this is what we have been saying - is very difficult in syria, but also in jordan and lebanon. i am ashamed, as a european, to be here with the 50,000 or so refugees we are hosting when i have to talk to lebanese residents, lebanese and jordanian authorities, for whom some schools now host three quarters of syrian children compared to native children, and so on in all areas. third, we are talking about money. i would like to draw your attention to the problems of payment appropriations. i am also a member of the committee on budgets. payment appropriations are not on the agenda. echo's staff on the ground are now unable to continue the projects under way. this is very serious! we can make lists of numbers of what we're going to do; let us act first and implement the payment appropriations so that at least the commitments made can be respected. finally, i draw some provisional political conclusions. the first is the fragility of the neighbouring countries. jordan and lebanon are in a situation that is not only humanitarian but also politically explosive. we have no interest in this political situation being aggravated by a proxy war. secondly, i think that at some point we will also have to assess the mistakes we made at the beginning of the conflict and perhaps in the first popular uprisings we should have acted differently than we did; we might not be in the situation we're in today. finally, i think that temporary protection in the countries of the european union is necessary. today we must also meet our responsibilities as europeans, as member states, and not only by financing, which is not enough, operations on the ground or in neighbouring countries.
madam president, while the events in syria confront us with seldom – if not never – before seen levels of destruction and human cruelty and horror, i believe that we must concentrate on trying to help find a solution. it must be clear by now, after three years of mainly military conflict, that there will be no military solution to the situation. only a political solution is possible. a political solution entails, of course, the participation of all the main partners and all the main actors in this tragedy. the start of the geneva talks a few weeks ago offers a very faint glimmer of hope. it was to be expected from the outset that this can only be the start of a very long, painful, difficult process and we should not lose patience in the course of it. we should do everything we can to exert maximum influence on whoever can bring about – or help to bring about – a solution and end the bloodshed. that means talking to the regimes in the region; that means convincing the opposition forces to build unity; to open up to representatives of civil society; to involve half of mankind – that is women; to see to it that the rights of children are not neglected, and so on. it will take efforts and endeavours by everybody concerned to bring about a peaceful solution. we should not lose hope and we should work together in order to try to bring about a solution.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr venizelos, you have spoken well and you have spoken in a diplomatic way. i probably won't be, because i remember that during the time of president morsi, ngos said to me, "why are you silent in the face of the deviations you see?" i think today we have to be friendly, we have to say that egypt is a great country, which we care about, but we cannot remain silent about the concern we feel about the situation in that country. yes, there is unprecedented oppression in egypt today. with thousands and thousands of prisoners in the jails. with a constitution that is certainly better than the previous one, which was approved by almost 98%. but as an election observer myself, when such a result is approaching, i am more concerned than happy. i wonder where the natural opponents are, who should have spoken out. i think that today, the split that exists in the egyptian people and you know that fratricidal fractures in the peoples are the longest to narrow is extremely worrying. i would draw the attention of the egyptian authorities to the fact that labelling almost half of its people as terrorists and putting all the muslim brotherhood in the dock is a gesture that will breed violence for the future. i therefore support the idea of an 'inclusive' dialogue and the implementation of the road map. the egyptians are our friends, but we don't want a return to square one. let's not put the army back in power with all the prerogatives that the new constitution gives it, as if the revolution was erased. i would like to end by congratulating the european external action service and our two representatives on their excellent work. i would like to point out that stavros lambrinidis, who is a strong defender of human rights, will be in cairo on saturday. we can trust him to say with diplomacy what i said to you with brutality.
the agenda calls for the debate on the oral question to the commission on the eradication of female genital mutilation by mikael gustafsson, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality (o-000029/2014 b7-0106/2014) (2014/2511 ((rsp)).
ladies and gentlemen, before i give the floor to mrs corazza, allow me to welcome on your behalf an armenian delegation to the 14th meeting of the epc-armenia parliamentary cooperation committee. i welcome the members of this delegation, and i welcome in particular mr farmanian, who is leading it. the delegation will meet the committee on foreign affairs shortly. i hope that the cooperation we are about to enter into and the exchange of views we will have on this day will enable us to go further. dear armenian friends, today's debate is about female genital mutilation, on this day of struggle against this scourge. you have the chance and the opportunity to follow him. welcome to you!
we now return to the debate on the oral question by mr gustafsson (o-000029/2014 - b7-0106/2014) (c4-02511 (rsp)).
i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 115 (1) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 6 february 2014, at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think most of you who are familiar with the subject know why we are using this procedure today. we had a communication from the commission in addition to the two reports on naiades ii, but now at the end of the parliamentary term we have not had time to prepare an opinion on it, and that is why we are here in the house. inland waterway transport is an important means of transport, and i think we have often stressed this. but this means of transport also faces greater challenges. the economic crisis has also hit this mode of transport very hard, because it was already faced with the problem of overcapacity in the last few years before. this sector has also been underfunded for years. this means that there are problems with entertainment, innovation and especially with eco-innovation. and the banking sector, which is not very sympathetic to smes in general, is not particularly sympathetic to this sector either, because the forecasts are not the best here either. so all these are conditions for this mode of transport, but in our eyes it can and should play a very important role. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transport sector is not left behind. it is therefore necessary to take account of the fact that the transport sector is not yet fully integrated into the internal market. if we assume that today over 80% of goods are transported by road, we know that all other modes of transport are over-required. it is repeated in the white paper, it is repeated in the statements of the various countries, but in our view too little is done. we expect the commission to present a much more specific action plan than we have, in addition to the communication it has presented. firstly, we want to make better use of the existing resources - the funds, for example - in order to set clear priorities. secondly, we are very pleased that inland waterway transport has been included everywhere in the core network of the transeuropean networks, because inland waterway transport as such ensures the connection between ports and the hinterland, among other things, even where there are transport gaps today. inland waterway transport can also be taken into account more in the multimodal projects, in the platform projects, including marco polo projects. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. that is why we expect the commission to draw up a joint plan here. we need better research, we need better funding. we must also deal with training. training means tomorrow's jobs. and that means, in conclusion, that not only the commission, not only us here in parliament, are called upon, but that we also clearly need the partnership of the countries. you can't just walk away from responsibility here. we therefore believe that this action plan, together with parliament and the council, is the right step to take to set the future priorities here.
i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 115 (1) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 6 february 2014, at 12 noon.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the first question that i want to raise to you is this: where is the council in this debate? we are putting out a message here. it is not a message for mr barnier, because mr barnier is 100% behind us and we have the same opinion. for whom do we have a message? for the council! why is the council not here? no, it is not for the media, mr callahan. you are doing that for the media because you are perhaps against a banking union. that i can understand, so you are intervening. since the presidency is not here, they have to make a new proposal to us. mr swoboda is totally right: it is totally unacceptable that it will now take until – what is the date of the next ecofin, mr barnier? – 17 february 2014 before they can have a new mandate. that is 14 days that we are losing on top of all the other months, because the council decided on the banking union, mr swoboda, in june 2012. and today they are not capable of defining a new mandate so that the negotiations with the parliament can really go forward. let us be honest, we have already said a few times that the proposal of the council is not acceptable and that we need another one. the dramatic point in this is that it was six years ago that the financial crisis started. six years ago – and we have still not found a solution for the banking crisis! the americans did that immediately. the first thing the americans did, within a year of the start of the financial crisis, was to recapitalise their banks and to solve the problem. they did what the swedish did after their real estate and banking crisis. what we are following is the path of the japanese. they also waited 15 years before recapitalising their banks. a long period of economic stagnation was the outcome of that approach. i am asking, mr president, that you send a letter – in the name of the united parliament – to the president of the council to say that it is not acceptable to us, and that we are asking them to speed up their negotiations inside the council so that they come with a new mandate. the second point is on the speed. everybody agrees: the speed we see now in the council proposal is like that of a trabant, if i can use the metaphor of a car. it is a very long and slow procedure, when what you need is a mclaren or a ferrari if you want to solve a banking problem in a weekend. finally, regarding the legal basis: as you know, there is only one good legal basis and that is article 114. why? because the money involved, the contributions, are private contributions. they are not the contributions of the banks – it is not public money that we want to be involved. article 114 is the right legal basis. i have already heard that some people are ready to make agreements on that, to compromise on that. maybe we should insert a sunset clause in this intergovernmental agreement at the end, so that the whole system can later fall under community law. that is what we normally do if we do not agree with the council, we say: ok, you can start with that system, but within a year, within two years, within five years the whole ega has to fall under community law. that could be the outcome. is that good? maybe it is better than an ega for eternity, but let us start these negotiations with the council on sticking to article 114. if the legal service of the council, the legal service of the commission and the legal service of the european parliament are saying the same thing, then it is a miracle. normally these three legal services have different opinions. this time they have the same opinion, and it is only because one country – it may then be the biggest country – is opposing it that we are looking to an intergovernmental system again, which is outside the treaties and which will have, in fact, negative consequences for the powers of the european parliament.
in writing. climate action has not been a party to the party in recent years. between the failure of international summits and disagreements within the european union itself, the next un climate conference in december 2015 looks perilous. the european commission's presentation on 22 january of a new european climate and energy package, which is both realistic and ambitious, is therefore welcome news. with one binding target set: 40% reduction in co2 emissions by 2030. that's the right signal. europe has finally realised that if it is to remain at the forefront of the fight against climate change, it must present achievable targets. for my part, i opposed one of the three binding targets proposed in the delvaux report for a simple reason: increasing the share of renewable energy by 30% by 2030 is unrealistic for a majority of member states. a figure: in 2012, renewables accounted for 8% of belgian electricity production, compared to 48% for nuclear and 27% for gas turbines. and a conclusion: renewable energy will not change the energy landscape, so it is better to focus on energy savings!
in writing. investing in the environment and energy sector must remain a european priority as it is the future and creates jobs. the main polluters in the world must follow the european path when it comes to limiting greenhouse gas emissions, otherwise all these targets will have the same impact as a sneeze in the middle of a wind turbine field.
in writing. with this report we are moving towards more federalism, more centralisation and more solidarity, which is what we are asking for. the strengthening of economic and monetary union through the creation of a banking union of the euro area countries is an essential step in european integration to stabilise and moralise the internal market for financial services. the banking union must restore the confidence of citizens and markets and remedy the fragmentation of financial markets. with the single supervisory mechanism, which is designed to respond to a bank failure, the resolution board and the resolution fund, we want to break the link between the banking crisis and sovereign debt and to establish a comprehensive framework for crisis management. our aim is that the european central bank can assume ultimate responsibility for the supervision of all banks in the euro area as well as financial institutions in the voluntary neighbouring countries by autumn 2014.
in writing. the formula proposed by the council, according to which the decision to rescue a bank would be taken only between member states, is unacceptable: the 'big countries' could agree to rescue their banks while imposing their will on the 'small states'... in short, as some say, it is the restoration of the right to vote by direct vote.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the rules on the labelling of meat are applied. i don't agree with that. in fact, i think that even the commission's present proposal goes too far. that is why i am calling for more realism in labelling. labelling does not guarantee better food safety. all member states must apply the existing eu rules. labelling of origin can lead to a false sense of security. this proposal does not improve traceability or animal welfare. nor does it prevent food fraud. a point which i also made in the discussion of recent food fraud scandals. the commission has already done so. the first priority must be control and enforcement. in addition, this measure has the smell of protectionism and the labelling benefits mainly larger member states because they have a smaller share of border trade. finally, we must beware of administrative burdens which make it difficult for businesses, especially the many smes in this sector. i call on the commission to show a sufficient sense of reality. because what's the next step? labelling of origin of meat as an ingredient? i'm definitely up for that.
in writing. i support the european parliament resolution on the commission implementing regulation of 13 december 2013 laying down detailed rules for the application of regulation (eu) no 1169/2011 of the european parliament and of the council as regards the indication of the country of origin or place of provenance of fresh, chilled and frozen meat of porcine, ovine, caprine and poultry animals. the commission must return to reason: all meat must be subject to the same regime as beef.
in writing. such an approach significantly limits the scrutiny power of the co-legislators, since it requires them to object to the delegated act in order to oppose the granting of beneficiary status to one of the applicant countries, which penalises all applicants declared eligible by that delegated act, whereas the adoption of separate delegated acts for each applicant country would allow for a more targeted approach.
in writing. since the beginning of the protests, the ukrainian authorities have shown little openness towards pro-european protesters and violence against them is increasing. it is time to take meaningful action, as the resolution calls for, to end violence. however, sanctions must be accompanied by positive measures, such as the introduction of a visa-free regime. we also support the call on russia to adopt a constructive attitude and to stop the pressure it is exerting on its neighbours. the point here is to defend the eastern partnership and to support the countries of our eastern neighbourhood so that they can freely choose their future. we therefore urge the ukrainian regime to immediately stop the repression of demonstrators who speak out publicly in favour of european values. we call for a positive and inclusive dialogue between all parties involved.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a resolution on the situation in ukraine this afternoon. since the suspension of negotiations for an association agreement with europe, the country has simply been split in two. i supported this report because the european union cannot ignore the protest movement that has developed in kiev. russia must stop its retaliatory measures and its unfair pressure. president yanukovych, who is accountable to the ukrainian people, must stop all repression, remedy the current political crisis and respect the right to peaceful protest. today there are dozens of dead among the opposition protesters hunted by the government, it is totally unacceptable! even if the door remains open to dialogue, europe stands ready, if necessary, to take sanctions against members of the regime. a programme of financial assistance to ukraine could also be proposed to sustain a transitional period during which an enlarged interim government could approve reforms and prepare for a presidential election. but before the violence and the repeated violations of human rights can be brought to an end, ukraine must respond to the demands of its people and return to the path of democracy.
in writing. we want to finalize the agreement on the visa-free regime between the european union and ukraine as soon as possible, as this is the best way to respond to the calls of ukrainian civil society and students who have demonstrated in the country's squares in recent days in favour of ukraine's european choice. we would like to point out that this agreement will strengthen and facilitate exchanges and personal contacts between civil societies, which will allow for better mutual understanding and will give the ukrainian public the opportunity to become familiar with european standards and best practices in all areas. we also call for the immediate introduction of very simple and inexpensive temporary visa procedures.
i can only welcome the balance in the joint resolution on the situation in syria. not so long ago this parliament adopted a one-sided and alienated attitude. guy verhofstadt, for example, was here calling for the supply of as many weapons as possible to the resistance against president assat as quickly as possible. today the reality is becoming clear, and the text of the resolution is also clear. there are many organized criminal groups in that resistance. there are groups involved that are linked to al qaeda. it involves islamists from europe who are preying on innocent victims. the fact that this is now finally being recognised by a majority in this parliament is a step forward. it is also of great importance that the jihadists who return to europe are dealt with harshly by the member states, that in certain cases they lose the nationality of their host country and that they are sent back to their countries of origin.
in writing. after seeing the unbearable images of corpses and mutilated bodies that are the evidence of the violence of the conflict in syria, we cannot remain passive. history judges us not only by our actions, but also by our silence. the regime of bashar al-assad has been guilty of countless human rights violations, of unspeakable acts of rare cruelty. it is high time that we stopped the escalation of violence. in view of the dramatic humanitarian situation in syria, the union must do everything in its power to limit the suffering of the syrian people and facilitate the issuing of visas. the way to a lasting solution to the current crisis is through political means. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the negotiations to include the mediterranean.
we strongly condemn the torture and mass killing of civilians in syria by both sides of the conflict, and extend its condolences to the families of the victims; we also strongly condemn the barrel-bombing tactics used by president assad's forces against civilians in densely populated urban areas.
mr president, when the so-called arab spring began, there was a kind of euphoria in this parliament that was totally alien to the world and totally inappropriate. the ousting of some more or less secular dictators was supposed to lead to the introduction of democratic systems on a western model, whereas it was perfectly predictable that the secular dictators would be replaced by much worse dictators, namely islamic theocratic dictators. as far as egypt is concerned, it is the coptic christians who are paying the price. all of this was foretold here, including by your servant, but people would not listen. the european union has helped to spread the bed of the muslim brotherhood in egypt and has thus actively contributed to the problems we are experiencing today.
in writing. - i condemn the violent clashes that took place during the referendum on egypt’s new constitution and in the days that followed, and i reiterate that political claims should be made within a legal framework. we call for prompt, independent and impartial investigations into the deaths of civilians, for the findings to be made public, and for those responsible to be brought to justice in accordance with international human rights standards. we also recognise the large turnout for the referendum on the draft constitution, and support the authorities that helped to organise the voting process.
in writing. we thought it important to remind the russian leadership that the eastern partnership should not be seen as a threat to russia's interests. on the contrary, we would like to stress that a stable neighbourhood would be beneficial both for the european union and for russia. let us not forget that the eu is the largest trading partner of this country. nevertheless, we remain concerned about the situation of human rights, respect for the rule of law and democratic principles in the russian federation. the ukrainian issue is a matter of concern in view of the respect for the freedom of choice of sovereign countries in foreign affairs, regional economic and trade cooperation, as herman van rompuy said. given the importance of dialogue with russia, we call for the union's responsibilities in relation to russia to be centralised by giving the next high representative a clear role in the dialogue with russia.
in writing. i voted for this resolution. i would like to emphasize two things. first, russia must comply with all obligations arising from its wto membership and must fully implement the commitments made in this regard. it should no longer impose a ban on products originating in the member states, as these are measures which are detrimental to bilateral relations between the various member states and russia and between the european union and russia. secondly, i condemn in the strongest terms the recent barbaric attacks in volgograd. i welcome the adoption of the eu-russia joint declaration on counter-terrorism of 28 january 2014, in which the european union and russia agree to explore the possibilities of deepening their cooperation to combat terrorist acts and organised crime, to extend cooperation to the exchange of good counter-terrorism practices and the training of counter-terrorism experts, and to intensify their cooperation in the framework of the united nations and other multilateral fora.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0310/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the community (com (97) 0406 - c4-0310/97). it is therefore not a good idea to talk about the so-called european vocation of countries like bosnia and herzegovina right away. the permanent enlargement of the european union, which is increasingly a problem, is enough. the issue of enlargement, more than any other, exposes the gigantic gap between eu policy on the one hand and public opinion in the member states on the other. i can therefore predict that after the elections on 25 may there will be a lot of crocodile tears again over the new breakthrough of so-called populism.
in writing. if enlargement contributes to peace, stability and prosperity on the european continent, and if the union remains committed to helping bosnia and herzegovina on its path to eu membership, it is important that the council does more to help it move closer to the union. the bosnian political class must be supported so that it can move towards consensus in order to make progress towards eu membership and improve the daily lives of the citizens. particular attention should be paid to the rights of minorities and vulnerable groups, as well as to reforms in the areas of justice, elections, the fight against corruption and organised crime, the fight against discrimination, media pluralism, education, etc. finally, the bosnian authorities must establish better cooperation with the countries of the region in a spirit of good neighbourliness, which is a prerequisite for any peaceful coexistence and reconciliation within the country and in south-east europe.
in writing. we encourage governments and competent authorities to make the institutions they lead more efficient and operational, and to put in place a genuine union-wide coordination mechanism, in order to ensure a harmonised transposition and application of the acquis throughout the country and to promote general prosperity. we ask them to speak with one voice at national level. it should be stressed that without this coordination mechanism, the process of accession to the union will remain deadlocked. we call on all political parties to work towards facilitating political dialogue and strengthening political culture.
in writing. following the council and commission statement, we wanted to reaffirm our willingness to continue enlargement to the balkan countries. in this respect, we regret the council's decision to postpone once again the opening of accession negotiations with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (fyrom). this could jeopardise the credibility of the whole process of enlargement of the union and undermine regional stability. we call on greece to use its presidency to give new impetus to this process. we also encourage the fyrom to consolidate its reforms and to put an end to policies or practices that could harm its candidacy. in this regard, we call on the country to ensure respect for freedom of expression and in particular freedom of the media. this is a fundamental freedom and a crucial element on the path to eu membership. finally, we call on the country to recognise the important role of civil society and its added value in the political debate. we call on the fyrom to provide a space for dialogue and to ensure the representation of civil society in the policy-making process.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution. i encourage the country to consolidate its reforms and to put an end to policies and practices that could still stand in the way of its european future, and to ensure real progress in key areas, as set out in the european council conclusions, in particular in the declarations on enlargement and the stabilisation and association process. the launch of negotiations with the european union is a positive step towards resolving the current disputes with the neighbouring countries, while also being the source of further reforms to improve the country's situation.
in writing. in view of montenegro's progress towards european integration and the evident enthusiasm for the european project, we welcome the opening of five new negotiating chapters in december 2013. we encourage the country to continue its efforts to align itself with european standards and call on it in particular to strengthen the fight against financial corruption and organised crime. we welcome the participation of civil society in the negotiation process and encourage the government to maximise the range of civil society organisations represented in the discussions. we also wanted to commend montenegro for its efforts to increase the independence and rationalization of the judiciary. nevertheless, we draw attention to various sectors which require further reforms. as regards the electoral system, we stress the need to accelerate the reform process in order to strengthen public confidence. we also recall the importance of reforming the public administration and respecting the freedom of the media. we condemn any attempt to intimidate the press and urge the country to guarantee the independence of the media.
in writing. we urge all political forces, whether in government or in opposition, as well as key players in the economic and social arena, to remain focused on the country's integration process with the european union by encouraging sustained dialogue and constructive cooperation. i regret that following this year's high-profile 'record case', the committee of inquiry into allegations of misappropriation of public funds in favour of political parties failed to draw any political conclusions in its final report and that there is a lack of judicial follow-up in this respect. i would stress the importance of ensuring that a thorough investigation is carried out and that appropriate action is taken where necessary. i therefore call on the montenegrin authorities responsible to submit a prompt, free and fair conclusion of the judicial procedure, with the cooperation of all the actors concerned, considering all offences thoroughly, objectively and in full compliance with the law. i welcome the recent announcement of an investigation into the cetinje video recordings, under which any person found in breach of the electoral law would be subject to appropriate sanctions.
it is good that this house is adopting a resolution to tackle the horrendous reality of female genital mutilation in a strong way. but in order to tackle the problem effectively, it is high time that we first put an end to this alien cultural relativism which consists in considering all cultures as equal. a culture that recommends, permits or even condones female genital mutilation is not a culture on par with ours. to combat a problem, one must first dare to make a correct diagnosis, and that diagnosis leads us to the inconvenient truth that barbaric practices such as female circumcision occur mainly in african and muslim cultures. there's no point in not facing that truth. accusations of islamophobia are not going to help anyone, especially the victims. the islamic world needs more debate about the backward practices that exist rather than no debate at all.
in writing. the right of every woman to have her own body is a fundamental right. but female genital mutilation denies this most basic right in the name of a tradition, a culture, a practice, a custom that is unacceptable today. the physical and psychological damage caused by such practices, which seriously undermine human dignity, must be explained to migrant communities. we must fight against the persistence of these practices, which are perpetuated with the tacit consent of some women imprisoned in the shackles of tradition. girls' education is a means to empower them and to enable them not to reproduce the unacceptable.
in writing. as the member of parliament responsible for gender equality and the status of women, i am even more sensitive to this issue. we have also called again on the commission to present without delay a proposal for a legislative act of the union establishing measures to prevent all forms of violence against women (including female genital mutilation) and defining, as indicated in the stockholm programme, a comprehensive union strategy in this field, including new structured joint action plans with a view to eradicating this practice in the union.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text. i would also like to stress that i can only regret that the commission did not include in its naiades ii proposal sufficient financial resources specifically allocated to achieving the objectives of the action programme, and i therefore ask that the mechanism put in place be well structured, with achievable short and medium-term objectives, and accompanied by a roadmap describing in particular the resources allocated to its implementation.
author. - mr. president, thailand is a cauldron of minutes about to explode with the backdrop of the royal succession crisis, the king being old and very sick for a very long time. the current confrontation is between the government, which relies on the rural areas and the less privileged classes in the north of the country, and the opposition, which claims the monarchy and is concentrated especially in bangkok and the upper classes. thailand has been the scene of recurrent clashes since the military coup overthrew former prime minister shinawatra, the current prime minister's brother. the old democratic party, which is the leader of the opposition, is no longer demanding new elections, which would undoubtedly restore the same majority, but a government of technocrats, appointed by the king and his entourage. that is the trap, because what is at stake in thailand today is democracy and popular legitimacy. the fact that an elected government, which enjoys strong popular support, is to be replaced by a government, however wise, is a challenge to democracy. thailand has no real democratic tradition. since the abolition of absolute monarchy in 1932, there have been eighteen coups d'état and eighteen different constitutions, and the contempt of the peasants, still sometimes called "water buffaloes", remains high. our resolution therefore calls for more democracy in thailand.
author. mr president, our resolutions of thursday afternoon cannot be counterproductive, especially for a country as sensitive as bahrain, where sunnis and shiites have been fighting since the arab spring. i shall therefore focus less on the case of arbitrarily detained political prisoners who deserve to be released and more on the conciliation action led by crown prince salman al khalifa. we are on the eve of the third anniversary of the uprising in bahrain and for three years the repression has not abated. the european parliament and many international actors have intervened to call for more democracy and openness in the country, but on 15 january this year, the crown prince took a step forward. it has opened a national consensus dialogue and there are other positive signs in the country. the creation of a mediator post in the ministry of interior, the creation of a special investigative unit in the public prosecutor's office and the creation of a committee of prisoners and detainees, responsible for monitoring or reporting cases of torture. the penal code and legal procedures should be reformed soon. all of this is in the right direction. nevertheless, these plans could of course be nothing more than a smokescreen to calm the alarmed international public about the situation in bahrain and we will therefore follow developments in that country with attention and sympathy and support the reformists who are peacefully trying to transform it.
the new co2 emission target for new cars remains an ambitious target, and we agree with that, whatever some may say about this. i think europe will continue to set the tone with the new objective. and of course, this is good for the consumer and good for the environment. less co2 means less consumption, of course, and is better for our energy dependency. we know that for some the glass is always half empty, that this does not go far enough and that the agreement reached is not ambitious enough, but we do not live in a vacuum and françoise grôssetête has made it clear: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must not, of course, sit idly by after we have given our consent. the renewal of the test cycle is an absolute priority and we expect, commissioner, from the present commission and the next new commission - and we hope that you will be part of it again - to accelerate the process in the coming months and years and, above all, to bring together the car manufacturers and the technology companies in europe to develop this zero-emission technology in the european union. this is of course fundamental to the future of our automobile industry.
i'll take note of that.
i'm taking your comments into account, but since you've just arrived, it's a little difficult.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 25 february 2014, at 12 noon.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by michèle[nbsp ]striffler, on behalf of the committee on development, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps [nbsp ]eu aid volunteers (com ((2012) 0514 c70303/2012 2012/0245 cod)) (a7-0158/2013)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 25 february 2014, at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for one-minute speeches on important political issues (rule 150).
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr minister, mr barroso, you are too modest. i think you are being too modest because you are telling us that we are perhaps seeing the first signs of an end to the crisis; you are being too modest because growth is back. it is in a massive way. of course, it is the growth of debt, unemployment, inequality, poverty, it is the growth - mr swoboda said it - of disease, infant mortality. but growth is back. corien, i heard you when you said that we were in an untenable situation and that it's normal that the effort hurts. you are right: we were in an unsustainable situation in the crisis countries, as in the rest of europe. the question is, who is paying for the effort today? does the distribution of efforts correspond to the distribution of responsibilities for the crisis? are the efforts being distributed fairly? the answer is obviously no, and that is what i think justifies the revolt of a large part of our citizens, who say that the way out of the crisis is obviously pleasant for some and very unpleasant and unbearable for others. let's not make a mistake! mr rehn, we are strong supporters of the european semester and of the coordination of economic and social policies within the european union. the semester is an indispensable tool. nevertheless, you have made it an instrument which is directed exclusively at two objectives: the reduction of public expenditure and the reduction of the so-called labour costs, that is to say wages and social protection. do you seriously think that this is how we are going to get europe out of the crisis? we say that the european semester must have as its main objective the reduction of inequalities on the one hand and the reduction of our ecological footprint on the other. it is by concentrating all our energies on these objectives that we shall get europe out of the crisis. we believe that it is by making the semester, perhaps, more democratic, more accountable for its actions to elected assemblies, whether - as sylvie said - at the national or european level, that we will have a chance to give a new direction to the semester, and this in the general interest of europeans. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue-card answer. – firstly, if you want to put junk food on everyone’s plate then, of course, that junk food will cost less than good food. that is your choice; it is not ours. energy transition is a cost, but there is no question that at some time we will need to get rid of our addiction to fossil fuel, and that means investment. we do have the capability to invest. then the question is how do you correct the impact of these measures on those at the lowest end of the income spectrum via ambitious tax policies? that is what we need to change. so there are answers. i do not deny the reality of the problems you are putting on the table, but i believe that there are solutions to them.
blue-card question. – mr farage, i think that many things you said make a lot of sense: internal devaluation in a currency union is inevitable if there are no transfers. now would you then, applying the same reasoning to the united kingdom, say that if the economic cycles of wales, of scotland or of northern ireland are different, then probably the best solution would be to dissolve the currency union and to then leave each part of the current union to live its own life, possibly with monetary devaluation, instead of solving these asymmetries?
- i'm the reporter. - i think i am entrapping an open door when i say that we in europe have been through and are still going through the worst economic crisis since the second world war. i think that the debate today also shows that we are not out of the crisis yet, that there is still more work to be done. that is also the message of my report on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. the work is not done! it would therefore be a great pity if the commission or some member states thought that we had arrived at that moment and that the reform packages still to be implemented and the savings and reforms still to be achieved could now be put on the back burner. the very fragile economic recovery we are witnessing today shows that we must go further down the road we have taken. we must continue to implement these reform packages. this will be crucial to stimulating economic growth and job creation. my report therefore clearly sets out the tasks that still lie ahead. firstly, there are a number of tasks at european level. it is quite clear that we must also do everything we can at european level to increase our competitiveness. both the member states and the european union as a whole must remain competitive and seek to conquer new export markets in order to create the growth needed to generate prosperity internally. this will have to be done through structural reforms in the labour market, in the pension system, in social security, not to organise social breakdown but precisely to offer the next generation the prospect of a social security as we know it today. this also means that the member states will have to do everything themselves and, moreover, will have to show much greater ownership in implementing the reforms that they agree with us here in the framework of the six-pack and the two-pack and the european semester. the reforms that need to be carried out in the member states, such as debt reduction or joint investment with the european union, are needed to make the best use of the european funds. i am thinking of investments in research and development, horizon 2020, research and infrastructure, investments to make our transport networks more interconnected. we also need the support of the member states, which must contribute to this financing in order to further integrate europe and bring the member states closer together. the debate must focus on how we can better support the private sector and give it more room to invest. we all know that smes and small businesses are the backbone of our economy. we note that they are currently having great difficulty in obtaining access to finance, for example. europe and the member states can work together to ensure that the private sector, industry and businesses generate the necessary sustainable jobs and long-term growth. the key to this is, of course, democracy and democratic control of the whole process. my report is very clear on this point too. that work is not finished either! we will also have to take steps to ensure that everything that happens here in the european parliament and all the proposals of the european commission are examined here in the european parliament. the community method is, of course, the appropriate method for this purpose. we must therefore ensure that all programmes proposed by the troika, for example, are submitted to parliament for democratic scrutiny. the european parliament is also the place where everything related to the european stability mechanism can be examined, because it is here that the democratic control and the democratic legitimacy of the commission to take these steps are based. we must also ensure that what we agree here is actually implemented. ladies and gentlemen, it is of course still a very difficult economic period that we are going through today, but the worst thing we can do now is to rest on our laurels and no longer think and look ahead. it is impossible to build a social paradise on an economic graveyard. so first of all we must get our economy back on track, encourage private investment, do everything possible on the public side to invest in education, development, research and transport infrastructure so that our economy can grow again and generate the necessary jobs and prosperity for our citizens.
mr president, commissioner, i will of course dwell on the cofferati report by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, stressing in particular that the protection of citizens' rights, whether as consumers or as citizens, is fundamental, also for workers. we must build trust in this single market and encourage responsible behaviour. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of personal data, in particular the new rules on the protection of personal data. hence the importance of following the transposition. let me also welcome the report by mr gutierrez prieto on the quality of employment, because we have spoken a lot about growth and we are right to talk about returning to growth, but growth has no meaning if we do not talk about how it is redistributed. reducing inequalities is fundamental in europe. i'll take an example from outside europe: qatar [nbsp]6.6[nbsp]% growth in 2012[nbsp], which is based on a system of slave labor and where, already, 850[nbsp] foreign workers have died on the construction sites of the future and shameful world cup[nbsp]2022. this example will have shown that we must of course return to growth, but that it must be shared and accompanied by quality jobs and fundamental respect for those who participate in it, that is to say, the workers.
mr president, commissioner, the reports of my colleagues - and i welcome them - must help to assert the role of parliament in the european semester process. their recommendations should be taken into account. i would stress the need for growth in europe, not exclusive austerity. the fact that all member states must be involved in reducing economic imbalances, including those with trade surpluses; or the fact that the existence of a social scoreboard is a step forward, but that it must be binding in order to be useful. in social matters, the european semester should be a catalyst, not for the dismantling of the social protection system but for the fight against poverty, with decent wages and incomes throughout europe that allow the strengthening of the purchasing power of citizens, to ensure quality employment, in particular through a strengthened social dialogue, and to invest in youth, in particular through the youth guarantee, with sufficient budgetary means. if we do not change our approach, particularly in these areas, we shall not regain the confidence of the citizens.
rapporteur. - mr president, i want to thank, first of all, all the colleagues who have worked on this report. both in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and in the committee on employment and social affairs we found a very good, a very strong and a very clear compromise which also sends a very clear signal to the council and to the commission. i must say after listening to the debate that i do not think that the european semester is from the right or from the left. i think that we, as the european parliament, should take up our role in this process much more maybe than we do today. we have of course, after the very difficult economic situation, taken a road ahead, also supported by this parliament: a road of reducing deficits and balancing budgets; a road of implementing economic reform; a road of modernising social protection; but also a road of investing in education, research and development. we cannot go back and restore the mistakes which were made at the start and the onset of the creation of the euro. but i do feel that we must do our utmost – and maybe it is the task of our generation – to make sure that we correct the mistakes and take a clear path forward. my report and the report by mr[nbsp ]gutiérrez prieto start this process and provide a clear path forward: a combination of more democratic accountability, a combination of solidarity with conditionality and clear responsibilities, and also more room for private investment, to boost investment and to improve entrepreneurship and create jobs and growth. these reforms are not, of course, always pleasant but it is also our job as politicians to have the courage to defend the road taken and the benefits it will bring in the long term. this is, i think, our job as politicians and also the job of our generation. we could not continue with business as usual. we could not continue along the road that was taken 20 years ago, so it is now time for a new path. i think that with more democratic control – we are here in the european parliament, the centre of european democracy – that if we can take a step forward here, if we can continue along the path that we have followed, we will reconnect with economic growth, we will reconnect with job creation and we can offer the young generation of europe a future.
the social scoreboard is included for the first time in the annual growth survey and thus in the european semester. the social scoreboard is being put forward by the european commission as a concrete step towards strengthening the social dimension of emu. this should not be used as a 'sweetener' to counter the difficult questions of a social europe. i want to make it clear that a social scoreboard like this only makes sense if it also links actions. after all, what is the point of mapping social indicators and then not doing anything about them? the european commission has been taking stock of the macroeconomic indicators of the member states for some time. these form the basis for strict budgetary objectives imposed on member states. as long as the european commission imposes binding macroeconomic objectives on the member states but only accepts social objectives on a voluntary basis, we shall never be able to revive the european union. my plea is therefore simple and clear: no enforceable budgetary objectives or strict macroeconomic objectives without these being balanced by enforceable social objectives. economic measures on an equal footing with social measures. this is the only way to achieve the social revival of europe.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
this closes the voting.
in writing. on 7 june 2013 at 13:08 in the village of szyldak (poland), a traffic camera recorded a vehicle belonging to tadeusz cymański travelling at 86 km/h in a 50 km/h restricted area. a summons dated 3 july 2013 was issued to the owner of the vehicle in connection with this infringement. in response to that summons, mr cymański sent a declaration in pre-printed form to the general inspectorate of road traffic in which he stated his intention to pay a fine for having refused to disclose - contrary to his obligation - the identity of the person to whom he had entrusted the vehicle in question. we are following the advice of the legal affairs committee.
in writing. the financial crisis and economic downturn have since 2009 significantly undermined financial stability and economic growth in the european union in general and in member states receiving external assistance in particular. the latter have been the subject of macroeconomic adjustment programmes agreed with the european commission, initially covering seven member states (cyprus, greece, hungary, ireland, latvia, portugal and romania), while at present only cyprus, greece, ireland and portugal continue to receive financial assistance. these four member states are facing severe budgetary constraints, which cause liquidity problems due to the need for fiscal consolidation and complicate the implementation of operational programmes. for these reasons, it is imperative to promote conditions that facilitate the management of eu funds, so as to encourage and accelerate investment in the member states receiving financial assistance and to boost projects essential for the socioeconomic recovery and development of the sector.
in writing. the power to adopt delegated acts is conferred on the commission for a period of five years from the date of entry into force of this regulation. the commission shall draw up a report in respect of the delegation of power not later than nine months before the end of the five-year period. the delegation of power shall be tacitly extended for periods of an identical duration, unless the european parliament or the council opposes such extension not later than three months before the end of each period.
in writing. this draft report concerns a proposal for five legislative acts in the field of justice which still provide for the use of the prc. in view of the specific nature of this area, which falls entirely within the competence of the committee on legal affairs, no committee for opinions has been appointed. this draft report contains no amendments and i have approved it.
in writing. we proposed the following amendment: by way of derogation from the first subparagraph, any delegated act adopted pursuant to the regulations listed in points 81, 82, 85, 86, 90 to 93 of section g and, as regards international financial reporting standards, in point 95 of section h of annex 6a, shall enter into force only if no objection has been expressed either by the european parliament or the council within a period of three months of its notification to those two institutions, or if, before the expiry of that period, both the european parliament and the council have informed the commission that they intend not to object. the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the technical specifications for the interoperability of the rail system.
in writing. we have decided on the proposed appointment of oskar herics as a member of the court of auditors and have given a favourable opinion.
in writing. if this proposal were adopted, members excused by the president (on presentation of supporting documents to the quaestors) for reasons of ill health, serious family circumstances, on a mission on behalf of parliament, pregnancy or maternity leave would no longer be mentioned as absent on the attendance list. the proposed amendment is aimed solely at reducing the negative influence of duly justified absences on the attendance register of members and on indicators of members' parliamentary activity published on websites such as vote watch. this measure will not entail any financial implications.
in writing. - this report is welcome, as it aims to increase the efficiency and sustainability of passenger cars, thereby promoting both a low-carbon economy and sustainable growth, and reducing the eu's dependence on oil. the 2020 target of 95 g co2/km should be maintained, as the industry should be given appropriate planning and investment certainty. however, i was not in favour of a more far-reaching 2025 target. however, given that the guidance is set at between 68 and 78[nbsp]g co2/km, the commission has a certain margin of discretion. this flexibility is needed in setting the emission standards it requires in order not to stand in the way of a more rapid and sustainable development of vehicles. i also welcome the continuation of the incentives, because they provide incentives for the use of sustainable technologies. however, the creation of the appropriate infrastructure must also be considered in this context, because what is the use of an electric car if there are very few charging points? setting sustainable but above all realistic targets for new cars will strengthen europe's research and innovation base and thus help to counter the relocation of production sites and the associated job losses in europe.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the original proposal would have allowed an average passenger car to emit between 68 and 78g co2 per km after 2025. however, this was not accepted by the representatives of the member states. they got the christian democrat rapporteur to agree to a maximum of 95g co2 emissions per km by 2020. it is even more unimaginable that the five per cent of the most polluting vehicles have a back door to avoid the low-level commitments. i regret that some member states still do not realise that strong climate policy and technological innovation go hand in hand. if we in the european union do not have the political courage to force the car industry to implement environmental reforms, who will? i voted against this proposal because nature and consumers are paying the price for this weak compromise.
in writing. eu legislation on this subject, adopted in 2009, sets mandatory emission reduction targets for new cars. it aims to increase these emissions from the average of 130 grams of co2 per kilometre observed between 2012 and 2015 to 95g/km by 2020. the commission proposal sets out how this target will be achieved by 2020. reducing co2 emissions from cars is good for consumers and the environment. it allows a reduction in fuel consumption and the maintenance of the competitive advantage of the european automobile industry on the world market.
in writing. the growing importance of the internal market requires modern european legislation to enable our businesses to remain competitive. in addition, even if traders do not wish to have their marks protected at union level, they must be able to enjoy legal certainty when registering their marks. it was therefore necessary to harmonise certain aspects of national procedures and to impose a system of cooperation between national offices and the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim). this constant effort to reduce disparities between the laws of the member states of the union will further reduce the obstacles to the free movement of goods and services and, consequently, to any obstacle to free competition within the internal market. i welcome this proposal which limits the divergences between the provisions of the existing regulatory framework and improves cooperation between the trademark systems. this new legislation will also help us to fight counterfeiting more effectively.
in writing. the reform of the community trade mark comes at a time when eu customs authorities are reporting massive infringements of intellectual property rules, particularly with regard to counterfeiting and new strategies for infiltrating borders. in these circumstances, the eu must take firm measures to protect its citizens from counterfeiting. a trademark is an intellectual property instrument with a renewable 10-year validity, which guarantees the origin of goods and services. this reduces safety and health risks for consumers. the content of the package in question is the subject of a broad consensus among the political groups. the main elements are related to goods in transit, small consignments, generic medicines, mediation, trademark rights, legitimate use of trademarks and the right of individuals to take legal action in the event of infringement.
in writing. drug trafficking, human trafficking, arms trafficking and corruption can only be dismantled by the establishment of strong and effective transnational rules that effectively combat crossborder crime and the huge profits it generates. it was urgent to establish common rules on the freezing and confiscation of the assets of organised crime groups, because only in this way will we be able to seize their profits and put an end to their sources of funding. i regret, however, that the united kingdom and denmark are not bound by the directive, thus weakening the european system.
in writing. right after the decision with respect to the ukrainian leaders, chance does things well. the european parliament has long called on the commission to propose new legislation on confiscation. in its own-initiative report adopted in october 2011, parliament stressed in particular the need for new rules on the effective use of extended confiscation and confiscation without conviction, rules allowing for the confiscation of assets transferred to third parties. parliament also called for the introduction into national systems of instruments to alleviate the burden of proof in criminal, civil or tax law as regards the origin of assets held by a person convicted of an offence related to organised crime.
in writing. the reform of the community trade mark comes at a time when eu customs authorities are reporting massive infringements of intellectual property rules, particularly with regard to counterfeiting and new strategies for infiltrating borders. in these circumstances, the eu must take firm measures to protect its citizens from counterfeiting. a trademark is an intellectual property instrument with a renewable 10-year validity, which guarantees the origin of goods and services. this reduces safety and health risks for consumers. the content of the package in question is the subject of a broad consensus among the political groups. the main elements are related to goods in transit, small consignments, generic medicines, mediation, trademark rights, legitimate use of trademarks and the right of individuals to take legal action in the event of infringement.
in writing. the role of europol is fundamental in the fight against international crime and money laundering. however, due to its considerable potential and the processing of many sensitive data, the agency requires special attention from policy-makers in order to avoid any kind of overload. as an advocate of personal data protection, i welcome this balanced report which aims to limit the agency's processing of private data as much as possible without compromising its effectiveness. sensitive information will thus be processed only by a limited number of identified staff with specific objectives which are themselves defined in advance.
in writing. crime is the fifth most important concern of european citizens, far behind unemployment, the economic situation or the decline in purchasing power. but in the majority of the 28 member states, the crisis is accompanied by a general increase in crime. that is why this report on europol, the european police office in the hague, is timely. it is clear that the missions of the 600 europol staff must be strengthened and the exchange of information between national police authorities facilitated. what is more, europol has been responsible for a number of investigations: it has helped the commission to trace the chain from horse meat fraud. this justifies a larger budget than the current 83 million euro. another problem identified was cybercrime. according to a recent eurobarometer, 12% of european internet users have had their email or website hacked and 7% have been victims of credit card fraud. again, the new european cybercrime centre at europol will need to be better equipped to develop real eu expertise in the fight against cybercrime.
in writing. the main aims of this regulation are to establish the european union agency for law enforcement cooperation and training (europol), to repeal decision 2009/371/jha and to align it with the lisbon treaty by increasing its accountability. the proposal also aims to strengthen the democratic governance and parliamentary oversight of europol, both at european and national level. the european parliament and national parliaments will receive annual activity reports and balance sheets. they will also receive information on annual and multiannual programmes, risk assessments, policy analyses and general situation reports. the proposal strengthens and clarifies the data protection regime: giving the european data protection supervisor (edps) general supervision of europol's processing of personal data; strengthening the rights of access to personal data; clarifying the use of personal data and introducing the necessary safeguards.
in writing. as a humanist and universalist, i can only welcome the adoption of such a report which aims to encourage the temporary arrival in europe of scientific researchers, students, people in paid and unpaid training, volunteers and au pairs from third countries. i am convinced that this will facilitate the exchange of knowledge and know-how, which is one of the undeniable drivers of competitiveness. as the report points out, a clear legal framework is essential in order to avoid situations of exploitation and undeclared work. the loss of competitiveness and the ageing of the population are major challenges for europeans to address. this report is a start to the response but it must be part of a much broader approach which includes managed and humanized immigration.
in writing. - this revision of the legislation integrates and clarifies the conditions and procedures for the residence in the european union of students and researchers from third countries. two existing directives are integrated into a new one and the framework is extended to include paid traineeships and au pairs. this creates clarity and finally provides a legal status for au pairs and also for paid trainees. the new directive sets out the conditions for applicants for residence and also lays down rules for the member states on the processing of the application (including a time limit and transparency). it thus provides for rights and obligations both for third-country nationals wishing to reside in the european union and for the european member states dealing with these applications. this is to prevent arbitrariness, facilitate the processing of residence applications and strengthen the rights of foreign students, researchers, trainees and au pairs. researchers, students and trainees will also be able to travel within european member states. and the new directive introduces the possibility for researchers and students to stay temporarily after finishing their research or studies to look for work or start a business. these amendments are a good thing, i vote for them.
in writing. this report concerns a proposal for a directive put forward by the commission on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, studies, pupil exchange, training, voluntary work and pair work. it is an integral part of a european package of legal migration instruments, which includes the recently adopted directive on seasonal workers and the directive on intra-group posting. it is a question of developing a rational and positive approach to migration in general. this report reinforces the commission's proposal to make the eu more attractive to migrants from third countries. the commission is also proposing that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances and preparations.
in writing. the commission's approach is to make the corps complementary to existing structures and organisations, in order to avoid duplication of effort. the corps' actions must be guided by humanitarian principles (european consensus on humanitarian aid), even though some humanitarian partners have expressed doubts about the initiative, in particular its true added value and funding. the preparation of the report has allowed lessons to be learned from the various pilot projects carried out or in progress related to the proposal. eu aid volunteers will therefore only be deployed in humanitarian aid operations in third countries in response to man-made crises or natural disasters, and never in the event of armed conflict or internal unrest. once the programme is launched, a consultative forum will be set up, bringing together representatives of the commission, eu countries and sending and hosting organisations.
because they are written in the time of speaking, and everyone will have to speak, so don't be afraid. it 's your turn . everyone is registered.
in writing. - we in the european parliament can be proud of what we have achieved in this matter. firstly, we have opposed, with the european parliament, all the votes in the council calling for the abolition of the european food aid programme. in my own country 60% of the food bank funds come from european funds. the suspension of this funding would have affected more than 100 000 people in belgium alone. secondly, we have ensured that despite the difficult budgetary times, there is no cutting back on the overall budget. the new fund will have the same budget as its predecessor. and that is not a superfluous luxury, given the impact of the crisis in many member states. it is also good that the member states are given the necessary flexibility to use the funds for food aid or other types of aid, depending on the specific needs on the ground. the new fund will be an essential building block for a europe of social cohesion. we also have a heart for the tens of thousands of volunteers who work every day to help the most vulnerable in our society.
in writing. every human being has the right to respect and to lead a life of dignity. no one can be left on the side of the road. we cannot remain idle when we know that in 2012, a quarter of the european population was at risk of poverty or social exclusion. the existence of such a fund is therefore essential, especially in times of crisis when growth and employment prospects remain fragile. however, we must think of long-term solutions. we have a duty to give our economic system a new lease of life, so that each individual can be the architect of his own destiny, of his own prosperity and, therefore, of that of europe as a whole.
in writing. food aid is non-negotiable, the ep sent a clear signal this afternoon by voting for the fund for aid to the most deprived. it is the europe of solidarity which has expressed itself today, in particular by enabling 19 million europeans to benefit from the food distribution programme. i have of course supported this text because poverty threatens more than 120 million people in europe, almost a quarter of the population. it is therefore incomprehensible, as some people wanted during the negotiations, to put an end to an instrument which is anything but an option, but a real necessity. the main issue was also the budget, and the ep succeeded in increasing the budget from €2.5 billion to €3.5 billion for the period 2014-2020. the symbol is strong, europe which saved the banks must also preserve the dignity of the 19 million europeans for whom food aid is simply a matter of survival.
in writing. the s&d group led the fight for the creation of the european fund for the most deprived (efad). this new tool is designed to alleviate the most serious forms of poverty, namely food and material deprivation, in all the countries of the european union. the s&d group has ensured that the fund's budget is increased and reserved exclusively for support for the most deprived. in addition, key stakeholders such as food banks, charities and civil society will need to be consulted and involved in the development, implementation and monitoring of national systems for implementing the programme. the fead is a demonstration of european solidarity towards those hardest hit by the crisis, even if the increased budget remains largely insufficient. in 2010, almost a quarter of europeans (120 million people) were at risk of poverty and social exclusion. this budget is reserved for assistance to the most deprived persons and must not be used for other activities of a cohesion fund. the fead also complements national policies, as the responsibility and obligation to combat and eradicate poverty remains with the member states.
in writing. today's vote is purely technical and does not call into question the acquis generated on 22 may 2012, the day when the council and the european parliament adopted regulation (eu) no[nbsp]528/2012 on biocidal products. legislation based on better harmonisation of marketing rules but above all aiming at a high level of protection of human health and the environment. for example, carcinogenic, mutagenic and reproductive toxic (cmr) or endocrine disrupting active substances are excluded. for example, formaldehyde, one of the most dangerous pollutants, has been banned from biocidal uses: human hygiene products, disinfectants for areas in contact with food, disinfectants for drinking water, anti-fouling products. but much remains to be done, and to paraphrase a french expert: "today, many biocidal products are still on the market without evaluation...: in the long run, this regulation is intended to sort out products that are available to mr and mrs all-the-world, with minimal labelling". it is therefore up to europe and the national authorities to take the necessary steps to ensure that highly toxic biocides are no longer placed on the european market.
in writing. given the need to provide clarity and legal certainty to member states, the sector concerned and the general public, i supported the commission's proposal. moreover, in view of the major revision completed only two years ago, i am not too much in favour of reopening the political issues on which agreement had been reached during the negotiations on the original regulation.
in writing. violence against people in a vulnerable position is not acceptable. if europe is to be a moral force, it must position itself as the defender of the weakest. it is therefore up to the member states to take a set of measures to prevent such violence, to combat honour killings, etc. europe is right to fight for democracy, the rule of law, the impartiality of public authorities, the protection of privacy, etc. it will do so all the more effectively if it is credible to itself. however, it is noted that the number of women killed represents an increasing proportion of the total number of homicides, which confirms the increase in violence against women, and that this violence has a cost and devastating consequences on the health of the victims and on the economy of the states concerned. the annual cost of such violence to the union is estimated at €228 billion in 2011, or 1.8% of eu gdp. action on prevention is therefore urgent, including through early childhood education, but also by promoting women's empowerment and gender equality.
in writing. in order to step up the fight against violence against women, the ep adopted this afternoon the first eu legislation listing measures to encourage and support action by member states in this area. i supported this report which also advocates a comprehensive strategy at european level. the signal is strong and action more than necessary given the number of victims. between 20 and 25% of women in europe have been physically abused at least once in their adult lives, and every day seven women die as a result of domestic violence. it is clear that national legislation often lacks a common vision, definition and system on the subject. it is essential to alert people to the different forms of violence: rape and sexual assault, sexual and gender-based violence at work, forced marriage, domestic violence and female genital mutilation. the ep also called for the introduction of a criminal law legislative instrument, demonstrating today that the fight against violence against women is an absolute necessity and a priority for europe.
in writing. violence against women is a widespread violation of human rights and a form of gender discrimination. this is the root cause of inequality between men and women, as it is an obstacle to women's full participation in economic, social, political and cultural life. women who are victims of violence face severe psychological and physical trauma. in addition, such violence results in a significant economic burden in the form of health care costs, legal and police costs, as well as lost wages and productivity. between 20 and 25%[nbsp] of women in europe have experienced physical violence at least once in their adult lives and more than 10% have experienced sexual violence including the use of force. up to 45% of women have experienced some form of violence; between 12 and 15% of women in europe are victims of domestic violence, which causes the death of seven women in the european union every day.
in writing. the ultimate objective of this report is to consolidate the work that has been done at both the administrative and political level within the union institutions, with a particular focus on the co-legislators and the commission, as well as on issues relating to delegated and implementing acts over the past four years, and to pave the way for the integration of these issues in the next revision of the 2003 interinstitutional agreement on better law-making.
in writing. i reiterated in this debate a request for a legislative act on 'convergence guidelines' to be adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure, to set, for a given period, a very limited number of targets for the most urgent reform measures and for member states to ensure that national reform programmes are drawn up on the basis of these guidelines and monitored by the commission. member states should commit to fully implement their national reform programmes.
in writing. - there are 26.6 million unemployed in europe and in some eu countries the youth unemployment rate is over 50%. in addition, about 24% of eu citizens are currently at risk of poverty or social exclusion. these alarming figures highlight the still lingering effects of the crisis and the great need for action in the countries. to better coordinate this need for action within the eu, the eu has introduced the european semester, which is launched annually with the annual growth report of the eu commission. based on this report and the accompanying documents, the european council then draws up recommendations and guidelines to guide member states in achieving the eu's objectives. while i welcome the fact that the european semester calls for key employment and social indicators to monitor developments in the employment and social fields, i find it very problematic that the european parliament plays only a very limited role in these areas. the directly elected meps may have a say, but they are hardly involved in the actual decision-making process. all major decisions are taken by the european commission and the european council.
in writing. some in this house pretend to be discovering the technique of plant breeding and to point out the dangers of it, whereas it is only necessary to recall the facts: plant breeding is a practice which arose about 10 000 years ago, at the same time as the domestication of plant species, and, moreover, most of our food comes from domesticated varieties. it should be added that the plant breeding sector has an important role to play in a world context of population growth and increasing demand for food. that is why i voted for the report by my liberal colleague marit paulsen, which lists the recurring problems encountered in agricultural production: 30 to 50% of food production is wasted in the european union, and experts note a decrease in arable land due to inadequate land use. the text also stresses the importance of protecting and preserving genetic and biological diversity in europe and sets out the way to achieve this: strengthening the competitiveness of european smes active on the seed market, ensuring independent scientific research and stimulating innovation in the field of plant breeding.
in writing. it is important to stress the critical importance of having a functioning and competitive plant breeding sector to meet future challenges, whether it is future food supply needs or climate change. while diversity and healthy soil are of paramount importance in ensuring the resilience of agro-ecosystems, let us not forget the importance of producing varieties that can withstand the conditions we may face in the future, such as increased rainfall and the expected increase in plant diseases. i also stress the importance of preserving and developing the existing european diversity within the agro-ecosystem as a whole as well as the genetic diversity within varieties and the absolute number of different primitive species and breeds, all of which are essential to ensure our ability to adapt to the challenges arising from climate change.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have never been a supporter of opening up the market for national passenger transport, but i am aware that if we are ever to achieve a genuine european railway area, there must be rules of the game to determine which operators can operate where and under what conditions. that is what my report is about. the commission's proposals were and are - and this is no secret - unacceptable to me because they do not take sufficient account of the great variety of terrain, the differences in the size and density of networks, structures and also the experience acquired by countries and regions in opening up markets. but i am convinced that with the help of the shadow rapporteurs, whom i would like to expressly thank, we have succeeded in putting forward a better and more balanced package for approval tomorrow. i think it is important that we continue to stress that opening up the market will not be an end in itself but must be seen as a means which can provide the necessary incentives here and there to provide better services to people. that's what counts in the end. and that can only happen if we find good solutions to four important aspects. firstly, we must strike the right balance between opening up the market on the one hand and protecting public service obligations on the other. it is therefore necessary to avoid selective 'cherry picking' of commercially attractive links, leaving the incumbent operator with the loss-making lines. secondly, if the market is regulated at european level, then we must also agree on some basic rules on the structure of railway undertakings, the role of the infrastructure manager and the links between him and the other operators and the railway holding, if any. thirdly, we must level the social playing field as much as possible and prevent competition at the expense of the workers. finally, we must also strengthen passenger rights in the field of travel information and ticketing. in all these areas we have had very difficult but, in my view, very fruitful discussions and we have come to a package of proposals which has won a majority in the committee on transport and which, in my view, is an excellent basis for further work. as regards market opening, you know that there are ways of preventing cherry picking, of protecting the public service, and that seems to me essential, as it gives the regulator the opportunity to study the economic balance of a contract and its impact on a newcomer and to restrict access if necessary. we have made a number of changes to the commission's very rigid original proposal on governance. the holding model must be maintained and we must develop flexible rules for that. but there have to be rules. there must be a fair functioning of the market, and we have not always been in agreement on this. a number of colleagues, including mr frigo, have tabled amendments, together with other colleagues, which actually weaken the proposals on which we voted in the committee on transport in a way that is unacceptable to me. i cannot accept that. as regards the social aspects, it is important that we ensure that collective agreements are respected by all, that we further strengthen the social dialogue and that we solve a number of problems. we have also drawn up an excellent proposal on ticketing, which leads to the conclusion that the result of our negotiations is a step forward, something that is acceptable and workable in all the member states of the european union, and that is what we are ultimately trying to do.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to go. i would like to begin by thanking all my colleagues in the various groups, because i think we have managed to turn this initially very heated debate into a very objective debate and proposals accordingly. whether it is the commission's proposal or what parliament has made of it: the aim and purpose - and this should also be a message to the outside world - is for us to finally make the 27[nbsp] individual markets we have today in rail transport into a european market. 6[nbsp ]% of the passengers are on the train, the rest is almost on the road. every country says we need to work on traffic jams, we need to reduce co2, we need to make all these effects by a more efficient railway. but is there the political will? and i think the whole package is a good sign. for the first time - and i say this as the leader of the epp - the technical pillar is very important to me. if rail becomes more expensive at each border and certification takes up to two years, then it is understandable that rail is so slow compared to road and its efficiency is declining. the commission's proposals and the parliament's response to them are therefore a sign of the need to make railways more efficient and not to cut jobs - contrary to what some people say - but to create jobs by making them more efficient. this is what has moved us to look positively at these documents. secondly, as regards the political pillar - our colleague el khadraoui has just touched on this subject - i was responsible for the public service obligations, and we have of course seen and improved various aspects of the commission's proposal: the competent authority may, for example: [nbsp ]the european commission has been a key partner in the negotiations with the united states and the european union, and its role is to define the concept of the european union as flexibly as possible, so that it reflects the realities of the countries concerned. the transport plans should, of course, contain some details, but they should also take into account the multimodal aspect, the sustainable aspect, the rights of passengers and even those with disabilities. and we wanted to make clear here what we have done since then: for us, the focus of this reform is on the passenger - the human being - and not on the theory of how to design it. the rolling stock: of course, in different countries, the rolling stock may mean that there is never another supplier. the commission has supported and welcomed the provision of this. we disagreed with the tender and have therefore changed the proposal in principle. we felt that, overall, european parliament legislation should not change what is working well at the moment. it's supposed to fix what's not working. that's why we put efficiency first. the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the transport system. efficiency in punctuality, efficiency in customer service, efficiency also in the reliability of those services. because if you read the reports about the railway today, these are the weak points. the commission has therefore decided to continue to use direct tendering as an option, and not to use it as the only means of awarding these contracts. we have also tried to adapt the scale of the treaties to the scale of the countries. there are small countries with less than ten thousand railway kilometres and others with well over two hundred million. we have three categories. this can still be adjusted in the discussion with the council, but we think that this is more in line with reality. in short, we want to make railways more efficient and, as regards the working conditions which are also being laid down here, the countries should undertake not to reduce them at the expense of so-called liberalisation, on the contrary. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the future of europe depends of course on efficient, high-quality, safe and interconnected railways, but that does not mean that i am in favour of liberalisation. i am convinced that it is too early for a fourth railway package, which is intended to complete a revolution in the national railway structures in europe - structures which have played a strategic role in industrial and social development for more than a century. we have not really made the necessary step back from the previous reforms and their effects on the public rail service. the commission nevertheless proposes that we should further strengthen the strict separation of the parties involved and the opening up of the internal markets of the member states. for these reasons, i do not want the european commission's proposals on liberalisation and public service obligations to be adopted. that said, we have tried to make corrections, particularly in the committee on employment, to this dogmatic approach of the commission, in terms of easing the separation or the competence of the member states for the award of public service contracts. we have also obtained information from my proposals for the employment committee, beyond this aspect of the quality of public service, and i am thinking in particular of the transfer of staff, which must be compulsory and meet the same statutory conditions, the compulsory social criteria in tendering procedures, the respect of collective agreements, reciprocity between member states in respect of this respect and the requirement for certification of the on-board staff. in conclusion, my colleagues' reports largely incorporate the opinions of the employment committee and significantly amend the commission's proposal. if negotiations are necessary, they will provide a good basis for discussion with the council. i would nevertheless call on my colleagues to withdraw the request for a minimum service in the event of a strike. this seems to me to be contrary to a fundamental trade union right and cannot be a demand of the european parliament.
we have been debating the question of a unified rail network in europe since 1991. with enough courage in this house, we will have the final piece tomorrow. the fourth railway package will finally provide us with a technical pillar which will allow for effective harmonization and interoperability. there are also restrictions on the existing national rules, we will have a european railway agency with strong powers, which will issue safety certificates for all railway undertakings throughout europe. tomorrow, therefore, we shall take the step of finally opening up the market. first and foremost, and lastly, passenger transport. a better railway market will then be possible; we are still faced with the logical state monopolies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's air transport system is in a position to meet the requirements of the single market. it is precisely those countries which have already taken the step, such as sweden, that today score the highest in terms of punctuality, service, quality and passenger satisfaction. the package we are voting on tomorrow must also ensure sufficient transparency as regards financial flows. if we want to achieve a single european railway market, we must also ensure a level playing field for all companies. there should be a separation between the infrastructure manager and the strengthening of his role in the whole of the unified european field and the operators who should be given much more freedom to enter the market. a huge lobby of state monopolies has been trying in recent days, against the interest of their own citizens, to stop or reverse the necessary steps forward that are about to be taken here. it's actually a shame that we're being treated this way. it is therefore important that we do everything possible tomorrow to maintain the commission's transport package, to open up the market, to ensure that the quality of services to passengers is improved and that the objective of a single european transport market is finally achieved.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs ayala sender is indeed a communist who has opened the way to the liberalization of rail freight. i would point this out to my colleagues in the gue/ngl group. but since then, liberalisation at european level has hardly produced the promised results. the british railways, which have been liberalised for twenty years, are far from being a model for us all, and since belgium split its national railway company into infrastructure managers in 2005 - it is not my belgian colleagues who will tell me otherwise - train punctuality has declined sharply, and the number of trains cancelled each year has increased fourfold. on the other hand, other member states are successfully reforming their railway companies and sometimes even resorting to competition, without obstinately prohibiting any form of spontaneous collaboration between their infrastructure managers and railway undertakings and maintaining the status of railway workers. with the revision, commissioner, which will only take effect in june 2015 - so i don't know why we have to move on this today - we have redefined a regulatory framework, with financial flows being transparent, with regulation and regulators, with a principle of subsidiarity. i do not see why we should impose new chinese walls on all member states today, accept the dogma of competition and add difficulties to the difficulties of separation and the problem of forced sharing into many small networks. i think that this is not the right time for this text, and that this is not a good text.
the question is "blue cardboard". mrs meissner, you explain that in germany the railway industry is integrated and that the problem is one of financial flows between infrastructure and operation. do you think that the solution to this problem is to impose a complete separation and walls of china on all railway operators? is it not better to try to solve the problem of financial flows within a railway company for what it is, that is to say, a problem of financial flows, instead of making it seem and imposing on everyone that there is a disintegration of the companies and a vertical separation?
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, this has really been an intensive debate. the package itself is, of course, a very complicated and no doubt also controversial one. it forms part of the development of european railways. many details and many questions have been raised but i simply want to explain my thinking behind this package. first, we do not have a direct passenger train from brussels to berlin, and it is very difficult to explain that there is no commercial interest, for instance. why is it not possible? because there are problems with interoperability, and perhaps administrative barriers. if i were a railway operator and i wanted to run my freight train from italy to estonia, this is not possible at the moment. so interoperability must be created and we must overcome this fragmented national regulation space. so this is one thing. we have, of course, done a lot to move towards interoperability but i do not think that we will achieve what we expected during this presidency. but i still think we will achieve this interoperability. now with regard to governance, big corridors, this is linked of course to the ten-t guidelines which we discussed with you at the end of last year. these big corridors: if i run my trains on these and cross the border, somebody is responsible for the infrastructure and somebody collects the fees for the use of this infrastructure. where does this money go? i cannot accept that this money can go into the pockets of my competitor – though of course it can go to the budget or infrastructure manager. the issue of how to have a transparent and fair flow of money between the infrastructure and operators must be solved. we do not just advocate the dismantling of a vertical company. we are also trying to create, proposing to create a certain system to produce this transparency. so if we have another solution whereby every country has as single integrated railway company, how can we then organise the cross-border movement of trains? i would also like to say that, in 2012, eur[nbsp ]46 billion was spent on subsidising railways in europe, in investments and operational support. how do you distribute this money? this is a huge amount of money. is the only possibility that there must be a direct contract, or should there be a kind of comparison between the different proposals? as a taxpayer i would like to see that a real choice is available or that my decision was the best. regarding the employment issue, there are many provisions to guarantee workers’ rights. in fact the picture is that during the last 20 years employment in european railways has declined by 43[nbsp ]%. this is the situation today. within ten years, one third of railway workers will retire and we calculate that, even within this system, there will be a shortage of 92[nbsp ]000 people in european railways. but of course if we can create more business then there will also be more jobs, and we can then offer cross-border services and compete with roads. you know that in road transport no road haulier owns the road. we cannot imagine this kind of thinking existing in road transport. if railways want to compete, i am a strong supporter of the development of railways and an enthusiast for railways. so we must create this cross-border business which will bring more jobs, more revenue and more economic benefit and less environmental damage.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them up in the next few months. he knows that there is an amendment on minimum services which we as a group cannot agree with and which must be withdrawn. i would therefore ask you to vote against this amendment tomorrow. we should not be dealing with this at european level, it will only cause a lot of anxiety. very briefly about my report. i think, quite frankly - and this is obviously woven into both mr grosch's report and my report - that we are miles away from the commission's original proposals on market opening, but we are going to try to create some dynamism in that railway market without jeopardising the public service. it is absolutely essential that it be kept at the centre and protected. as regards the relationship between the infrastructure manager and the holding company, i have tried - and i have tried with the shadow rapporteurs - to find a good balance in order to maintain the different models, but i agree that we must have rules. those rules need to be clear. if they are not clear, we will have to go to the court of justice again in a few years. it is better that we make good and clear rules in advance, and that is what we have tried to do. i hope that we will have broad support so that we can be very strong in the negotiations with the council.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to go. i would also like to thank all my colleagues for their contributions. those who have painted such a terrible picture of the railways today, with fewer jobs, fewer services, who say that everything is getting more expensive and forget to say that the railways are still 90% national, and then explain that europe is to blame, they are really doing a super service to those in charge in their respective countries who have neglected the railways for years. we must therefore no longer accept that europe has to shoulder the responsibility for what is not being done in the countries. we have made this quite clear with the fourth railway package: we do not want to cut jobs, we want efficiency! we do not want less service, we want better service! i am sorry to say that the colleagues who have spoken so well about this are no longer here. if you're going to be living in a safe home until 2022, you shouldn't be running around in other markets, to put it simply. we wanted to, and we think it makes sense. we can discuss this again in the future. finally, i would also like to say to mr el khadraoui that i think the right to strike is worth debating. because if my little kid doesn't get the bus to school in the morning, if there's no one at home, if it doesn't show up at school, then i have a social problem too. that is the point of view from which we should discuss strikes. i will never question the right to strike, only certain consequences must be accepted with responsibility. it is clear that this has nothing to do with a recital. i shall certainly make a clear proposal to my group. i hope that you will also make a clear proposal on unbundling, mr el khadraoui, because i also hope that we will make some progress as large groups. in conclusion, take these proposals back to your country and put the necessary pressure so that the railways will be better off tomorrow and not worse off!
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate ms[nbsp ]de veyrac, as rapporteur, and the shadow rapporteurs for their valuable input and contribution to the discussions, and, more generally, parliament as well, for its strong support for the objectives of the commission proposal. i am pleased that an agreement has been found with the council on the text. the commission fully supports the compromise arrived at by the co-legislators. the european union must be the world’s leading region for aviation safety. parliament, the member states and the commission have worked collectively in that direction over past years. however, we should not stop there. with air traffic expected to increase in future decades, our recent good safety record could be followed by more accidents and fatalities. we therefore have a responsibility to provide a safety system that is more proactive and improves aviation safety even further. this regulation is a cornerstone for a modern approach to safety policy that seeks to improve safety further – by learning not only from accidents but also from small incidents and occurrences, even if they have not been the cause of serious consequences in themselves. by collecting and assessing appropriate safety information at industry level, but also nationally and eu-wide – and making sure that safety initiatives are taken on the basis of that information – the european union will have the appropriate means to prevent further accidents. this text also brings significant improvements in the area of ‘just culture’ and this is an issue where parliament’s input has been crucial to achieving a good outcome. the text strongly reinforces protection for those who report occurrences and other aviation professionals. protecting the source of information should encourage more aviation professionals to report occurrences and other safety-related information.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank the rapporteur first of all and ... i shall continue in french, as the rapporteur will be able to get along with the interpretation. the work which was carried out was, in my view, somewhat technical, but touched on a very sensitive area. it is indeed a question of having the necessary information on the incidents occurring in a sector where, fortunately, transport remains still among the safest but where, nevertheless, this information is very sensitive. i believe that a fair balance has been struck between, on the one hand, this preventive action based on information and, on the other hand, the apprehension that persons, by giving this information, may have to be the object of prosecution, and that here we have been able to take a step forward in this sector. the distribution of powers and, above all, the role of the judiciary have been clearly defined here too, and i believe that, in this area too, we can speak of a fairly important advance. the commissioner stressed that the europe of tomorrow will be a europe where aviation safety will still have an important role to play, as will initiatives in this sector. it is for me an opportunity, to end this intervention, to remind you that we had and still have one of the most important dossiers in the air sector, which in english is called the functional airspace blocks. it is a cooperation between the member states in the airspace sector, which can very clearly also contribute to aviation safety and therefore to the safety of our passengers. it is in this sense that i hope that this report will also be an incentive to review this approach, which is still unfortunately perceived in a very national way in the member states as regards functional airspace blocks, as i have just said. i thank the rapporteur for the report that she has drawn up and i also congratulate her on behalf of the ppe for the work that has been done.
- i'm the reporter. - i would like to speak about the two files of mrs sehnalová and myself. the files are very interwoven. we have, in fact, on the one hand, the report by mrs sehnalová on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the type-approval requirements for the deployment of the ecall in-vehicle system, and on the other hand, my report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the introduction of an interoperable ecall throughout the european union. this decision obliges member states to have their infrastructure ready in time to receive the 112 ecalls. i therefore fully support the european commission's proposal to make ecall mandatory for all new vehicles from 1 october 2015. the fact that today less than 1% of vehicles in the european union are fitted with the system shows that the voluntary approach was not really a success. automated calls can effectively lead to a faster response by the emergency services. it also means a reduction in the number of deaths and serious injuries, as every minute can be vital in saving lives. in belgium, it could lead to a reduction in the number of road deaths by about 70 per year. in my report i have made a number of specific points: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the 112 service is available in the member states, and that the psaps, the central receiving centres, are also available in the member states. the member states should therefore only adapt those systems so that they can also receive the 112 ecalls. it also explicitly gives member states the possibility to filter, to distinguish non-urgent from urgent ecalls. that certainly improves the efficiency of the system. it is important to make european citizens aware of the benefits of this system; member states should raise awareness among their citizens. the type-approval directive specifies the requirements to be met by the 112-ecall system. i can support mrs sehnalová's report in its broad outline, as adopted by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to participate in the work of the european parliament. it's already in a number of cars, and it's already been introduced by a number of manufacturers. drivers wishing to have such a system in their car should therefore also be able to choose additional applications for the ecall system. the report does make it clear - and this is important - that the 112 system is a public and basic system available to everyone. in this way, i think we have found a good compromise between the two systems, the existing and the new. there has also been a lot of discussion about data protection and privacy. i think that we in the liberal group have a real interest in fully defending and safeguarding the privacy of individuals. of course, to make that choice in a good way, one must know what the ecall system does. the ecall system is a sleeping system that only sends a signal when an accident occurs. it only contains information on the last three times and the last three positions of the driver, so that the emergency services can be alerted very quickly to the location of the vehicle and the direction in which it was moving. in addition, the system today - and this is very important to mention - also falls within the existing system of european data protection legislation. i understand the concern and also that we must always strike a balance between the data people provide to obtain a service and the privacy of the data, but i think that in this case the balance is right and we can use this system with confidence. i therefore call on everyone to support the report tomorrow by a very large majority and to send a very strong signal to the council and our citizens as a parliament that we want to see this system introduced as soon as possible and that we give absolute priority to road safety. we want to do everything we can to reduce the number of road deaths.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. - mr president, i too have said everything that needs to be said in my first statement.
a system that makes it possible for emergency services to arrive on the scene more quickly after an accident is, of course, a good thing. but the problem is that the ecall system opens the door wide to all kinds of abuses. the system allows third parties to request almost any information about our cars and the use made of those cars. where we go, how often we go, how long we stay, how fast we drive, and so on. it's not just the government that can be an unwanted bystander, because criminals can also hack into the system, which in any case has the potential to steal cars, or worse, to disable or activate certain features of those cars. and i'm not hearing satisfactory answers to all these concerns. the system should not be made mandatory. the car has long been a symbol of freedom. the ecall system could change this in a very profound way in the future.
i repeat a number of things that have already been said, but i bring them up again because they are extremely important. the faster the emergency services are able to respond to an accident, the better, because the response time can be up to 50% faster. so ecall is going to save about 2,500 lives. and whatever is claimed on the right, it can be calculated from simulations. that's 2,500 lives a year. i do not think that anyone who does not want to support this has a place in this house. we have committed ourselves, colleagues, to halving the number of road deaths by 2020. so i think we should now add action to the word. the great advantage of this choice is that, through this procedure, ecall is no longer an optional treat reserved for those who have extra money in their pocket. the fact that the installation of ecall is being done in compliance with all the privacy rules is self-evident, and it is good that, in compliance with these rules, all this is also becoming concrete and in a short time, within a year and a half. of course, member states also need to do their homework and prepare to process the ecall data. they also have to ensure that ecall works everywhere, so the point is that they have the emergency centres ready and that the network is available everywhere in europe. we did our homework, we're going to do it tomorrow. we are counting on the member states to do their job and on the ministers to reach agreement with parliament in the short term.
rapporteur. - madam president, i would like to thank colleagues for all their input in the debate that we have had here today, and also to welcome the collaboration between the other shadow rapporteurs and ms sehnalová, which has been really excellent. i think we have improved the proposal. i only hope now that member states will also start implementing this, after the negotiations we will have with them very soon, and i hope that this europe-wide system can come into place. i have heard many discussions here today about the fact that it would be mandatory. i think if we are talking about saving lives, if we are talking about reducing risk on the roads, then indeed, as the commissioner has said, some mandatory issues can come into play. it is also important that we talk about the standards, and also that the industry is following this system and that it is taken up by the industry in the new cars that will be produced. there also, i think we have done good work. on the privacy issue, this is a dormant system which will only relay to the psap at the moment there is an accident, and even then only a very limited amount of information will be shared. i am wondering who will even be interested in this kind of information the moment it is transmitted. i urge the member states to prepare; they should prepare their systems and they should prepare their backups in order to make sure the system can be deployed europe-wide. the fact is that we are seeing more and more people crossing borders and travelling by car, and i think this system can and will save lives in the future if we can send a very strong signal from this parliament tomorrow.
in writing. in the event of an accident, your car's ecall system will automatically dial 112. all new vehicles sold in the european union from october 2015 will be fitted with it. the aim is to save 2500 lives a year across europe, cut the response time in half and save 26 billion euros in the event of a major accident. the main benefit of the system is that it immediately alerts the emergency services to the precise location of the accident. this will reduce the time taken for emergency services to arrive by about 50% in rural areas and by 40% in urban areas. the eu's ecall could save up to 2500 lives a year in the eu and also significantly reduce the severity of injuries in 15% of cases. the system could save 26 billion euros annually. faster detection of the accident allows for faster treatment of victims (thus lower medical costs) and of road traffic (reducing the colossal costs of traffic jams). in summary, today's decision should reduce road deaths. this is far from a luxury when you consider that nearly 30,000 people die every year on european macadam.
in writing. president, the quality framework for traineeships is an essential part of the eu youth guarantee plan approved by the european ministers of labour and social affairs last year. the youth guarantee guarantees that every young person under 25 will receive a concrete and valid offer of a job, a traineeship, an apprenticeship or further vocational training within four months. 14 million young people (under 30) in the eu today are without a job, without training or without a traineeship (so-called neet young people, no employment, no education, no training). the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not able to take account of the needs of the young. a recent eurobarometer survey shows that many traineeships in the eu do not meet a number of basic conditions. 35% of the trainees say they did not receive a written internship agreement. the quality framework will put an end to such practices. it is therefore particularly regrettable that certain member states have done everything possible to weaken the quality framework. we hope that these member states will also choose, when implementing the youth guarantee, to offer quality traineeships which can be a springboard for unemployed young people.
what a lamentable debacle this debate was. it should have been broadcast on television everywhere, so that voters could see for themselves the authoritarian, intolerant and alienated nature of this eu. and the total inability to deal with the result of a democratic vote. no, mr cohn-bendit, there is no point in starting with insults, because the referendum on mass emigration in switzerland is all about the swiss wanting to be able to decide for themselves again who enters their country and under what conditions. in other words, they want to be the boss of their own country again. this has nothing to do with xenophobia or anything. it's the return of sanity. i have even more bad news for you, because if such a referendum were to take place in flanders, france, the netherlands or germany, the result would be exactly the same. but the reckoning may come on may 25th.
rapporteur. - mr president, on behalf of the alde group, i would request that the vote be adjourned to the april part-session, pursuant to rule 177.
in writing. the single market is the first pillar of our economy. the union can only return to growth by applying the existing rules more strictly and by implementing reforms aimed at deepening the market. we must work to launch ambitious projects, particularly in the fields of energy, digital technology, transport and services. the visibility of these projects will help to demonstrate to european citizens the extraordinary added value of our single market. i call on all european leaders to show political courage and to come up with ambitious and concrete solutions. i fully support the conclusions of this report, which aims in particular to establish a third pillar within the european semester. i think it is essential to include, alongside budgetary and employment policy, a follow-up to the single market. this would ensure a coordinated overall approach so that the reforms undertaken, following the annual evaluation, guidelines and recommendations made, have a real impact on our economy.
in writing. the european semester is a decisive moment for the coordination of economic and fiscal policies. in recent months, the european union has adopted a large number of directives and regulations aimed at developing the potential of the internal market. as mentioned in the cofferati report, which i welcome, public procurement, for which i was rapporteur, is a powerful lever for strengthening the european market economically and socially. while on the one hand they are an essential instrument for thinking about and implementing a new industrial policy, which is still sorely lacking at european and in some cases national level, on the other hand the new rules on public procurement recognise the centrality of social rights and the need to give them the attention they deserve. it is therefore necessary that during the european semester the european commission and the member states pay attention to preventing economic imbalances, and this through courageous economic recovery actions.
in writing. as a result of the crisis, there has been a sharp increase in the proportion of the population at risk of poverty or social exclusion, living in material deprivation, experiencing environmental degradation and precarious housing conditions, or experiencing very low work intensity and threatened with exclusion and energy poverty. the european social fund contributes to reducing the gaps in human capital between regions and increasing employment rates by contributing, alongside and in complementarity with the european regional development fund, to some of the union's current major priorities, namely boosting youth employment and the labour market, promoting sustainable economic growth and development, reducing the number of young people who drop out of school, and combating poverty, discrimination and social exclusion.
in writing. the history of policies linking the european union and the outermost regions has so far been shaped by the implementation of a central and essential policy of solidarity, via the instruments of cohesion policy and support for the agricultural and fisheries sectors. the aim of this report is to propose, by going beyond the current, sometimes exhausted, approaches, a reversal of approach so that investment policies in the outermost regions are open to new fields and allow their sustainable development. this must oblige us to move beyond the confinement of the outermost regions to regional and agricultural policies alone, to integrate them as much as possible and to make the most of the whole of european policies.
in writing. the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) has introduced a new tool into the budgetary discharge procedure: the performance-based evaluation of the union's finances. in accordance with article 318 of the treaty, the commission shall draw up an annual report on this matter. in so far as it focuses on financial results, this evaluation report complements the approach to compliance developed by the european court of auditors in chapters 1 to 9 of its annual report. it gives the european parliament the opportunity to assess political achievements and the legality of financial transactions. this amendment will also facilitate the transition from activity-based to performance-based budgeting.
in writing. on 13 june 2013, the european commission adopted two proposals to equip all new cars with an ecall system by october 2015, which will automatically call the emergency services (the single european emergency call number 112) in the event of a serious accident. even if passengers are unable to speak, ecall creates a voice link with the nearest emergency call centre and sends a distress call. the system allows for language-free calls and should make a significant contribution to reducing the number of road deaths and injuries in europe, by reducing the response times of emergency services. it is estimated that 2,500 lives could be saved annually; in addition, the severity of many injuries could be considerably reduced. the ecall system improves incident management while reducing traffic problems caused by accidents and the likelihood of secondary accidents. while private emergency call services are already installed in 0.7%[nbsp ] of european cars, none of them offer eu-wide coverage.
in writing. it is time for the council to conclude this agreement which contributes to the establishment of a strategic partnership between the european union and central america. this agreement will strengthen political relations and cooperation between the two regions as well as regional integration. the aim is to bring these two regions closer together, since they share the same vision. the fight against terrorism and organised crime, the fight against drug trafficking, the protection of human rights and so on are challenges that can only be overcome together. terrorism is a global scourge that requires a global response. only together can we contribute to a more just, a more secure, a more humane world. globalization is not this planetary crock pot, acting for the benefit of a few and at the expense of all. it is true that it must be regulated, supervised and ensured, through our major international structures, that it is given a human dimension. globalization is not just about increased economic exchange. it opens the mind, creates bridges, weaves bonds. it is a structure for dialogue between peoples, it makes possible the realization of the dream of every humanist, the creation of genuine citizens of the world. only together can we contribute to a humanized, equitable, coherent and successful globalisation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to: consolidate the political dialogue and the process of economic cooperation between the parties under the san josé dialogue, which was launched in 1984 and relaunched in florence in 1996 and then in madrid in 2002; to strengthen the cooperation programme governed by the framework agreement for cooperation between the european community and the republics concerned; promote sustainable development in both regions through a development partnership involving all relevant actors, including civil society and the private sector, in accordance with the principles set out in the monterrey consensus, as well as in the johannesburg declaration and its implementation plan; to establish cooperation on migration and to prepare for the launching of new initiatives to pursue common objectives and establish a common basis in areas such as regional integration, poverty reduction and social cohesion, sustainable development, regional security and stability, conflict prevention and resolution, human rights, democracy, good governance, migration flows and the fight against corruption, illegal immigration, terrorism, narcotics and small arms and light weapons.
in writing. the eu-central america agreement on political dialogue and cooperation signed in 2003 covers many areas (political, economic, social, cultural, environmental, health, education, science and technology, and the defence of fundamental rights, such as those of minorities, or gender equality). i am glad to see that a clause on the reciprocal readmission of illegal immigrants has been inserted into this agreement. this provision guarantees a humane immigration policy, thus guaranteeing respect for fundamental rights, where no one is left out.
in writing. the political dialogue and cooperation agreement is the result of successful cooperation between the signatory parties, as was the case with the 1993 framework cooperation agreement and the association agreement signed in june 2012. to date, only the third pillar of the latter is applicable. with regard to the political dialogue and cooperation agreement, it will only be applied to the extent that its provisions are compatible with the whole of the association agreement, after its ratification by the member states. although the text of the partnership is much broader in scope and covers a wide range of topics, such as political dialogue, economic and social cooperation, cultural exchanges, cooperation in the fields of education and training, consumer protection, health, data protection, scientific and technological cooperation, cooperation in the fields of environment and biodiversity, participation of civil society, cooperation on gender equality, cooperation with regard to indigenous peoples and other ethnic groups in central america, etc., the libe committee is only supposed to examine issues falling under article 49 (3) of the political dialogue and cooperation agreement, in particular the mutual readmission of illegal migrants.
in writing. - the european employment strategy and its accompanying guidelines provide an important guide for member states to achieve the europe 2020 objectives. there is a need for better implementation of the guidelines. the responsibility does not lie solely with the member states. while the european commission plays a very active and responsible role in the implementation of the economic guidelines, through the annual recommendations under the european semester, it is only recently that more attention has been paid to the social dimension of the european semester, in particular through the introduction of a set of social indicators. it is up to the european commission to develop further initiatives to strengthen this social dimension and to develop a stronger monitoring and control in labour market policy and social objectives.
in writing. i voted in favour of my distinguished colleague, mrs pervenche berès, on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states.
in writing. value added tax (vat) in the european union is a general consumption tax, broadly based, calculated on the value added of all commercial activities, which include the production and distribution of goods and the provision of services, with a few exceptions. vat is not normally charged on goods sold for export or for the supply of services. it does, however, apply to imports in order to put eu producers on an equal footing with their competitors on the internal market, namely suppliers of goods and services imported from third countries. vat is an indirect tax which is ultimately borne by the final consumer. it is levied as a percentage of the price paid by the buyer to the seller and is collected in the form of partial payments, each taxable person (whether registered for vat or self-employed) deducting from the vat he has collected the amount of tax he has already paid to other taxable persons on purchases made for the purposes of his business activities. this mechanism ensures tax neutrality, regardless of the number of transactions.
in writing. decision 2009/831/ec sets out the reasons for the adoption of specific measures, in particular the small size and fragmentation of agricultural holdings and their low level of mechanisation. in addition, the transport to the islands of certain raw materials and packaging materials which are not produced locally involves additional costs compared to the simple transport of finished products. transport and installation of equipment to these remote island regions adds to the extra costs. finally, the producers concerned also have to bear the general additional costs for the local economy, in particular in terms of labour and energy supply. the 75% reduction is not more than is necessary to offset the additional costs incurred by the operators concerned due to the special characteristics of the outermost regions of madeira and the azores mentioned above. as the tax advantage is limited to what is strictly necessary to offset the additional costs and the volumes involved remain modest, the measure does not undermine the integrity and coherence of the union legal order. moreover, the tax advantage is limited to consumption in the regions concerned.
in writing. decision 2004/162/ec sets out the reasons for the adoption of these specific measures: remoteness, insularity, small market size and underdeveloped exports, difficult terrain and climate, economic dependence on a small number of products, and even sometimes natural phenomena such as cyclones, volcanic eruptions and earthquakes. the remoteness of these regions and their dependence on air and sea transport, as well as their dependence on energy and raw materials, have an impact on production costs. the combination of all these disadvantages leads to an increase in the cost of locally produced goods, so that without specific measures they would not be able to compete with goods produced elsewhere. if local products are not competitive, it will be impossible to maintain local production, with the harmful consequences for the employment of the people living in these regions. the specific measures contained in decision 2004/162/ec were therefore designed to strengthen the local industry by improving its competitiveness.
in writing. the partnership and cooperation agreement aims to strengthen relations between the european union and indonesia, based on the shared principles of equality, mutual respect, mutual benefit, democracy, the rule of law and human rights. the readmission clause in that agreement lays down the reciprocal obligation of the union and indonesia to readmit their nationals, which implies that they must first be identified by their respective national authorities. it was essential that the readmission targeted third-country nationals and stateless persons, as indonesia is a major transit country for illegal emigration to the union. with this clause, we will be able to better control and even prevent illegal immigration. however, this agreement should not be an obstacle to the establishment, not of a clause, but of a genuine readmission agreement.
in writing. i welcome the acp as the first of its kind to be concluded between the union and one of the asean countries. it is a testament to the ever-growing importance of the eu-indonesia relations and it is hoped that it will open a new era in bilateral relations based on common principles such as democracy, the rule of law and human rights, equality, mutual respect and mutual benefit. this paper highlights the process of democratic, political, social and economic transformation over the last 15 years, after 33 years of military and authoritarian rule. indonesia is rapidly urbanizing, has a rapidly growing middle class (over 70 million), vast natural resources, the largest economy in southeast asia (gdp growth of over 6% in the last two years), with half of world trade passing through its northern maritime border, and a growing diplomatic presence in regional and global forums, such as the united nations, wto, ioc, g20 and asean, of which indonesia is a founding country and the largest member. the text recognises the important role of indonesia in the region as a whole.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of a comprehensive framework agreement for partnership and cooperation between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of indonesia, of the other part, with the exception of readmission issues.
in writing. the partnership and cooperation agreement aims to strengthen relations between the union and indonesia, based on the shared principles of equality, mutual respect, mutual benefit, democracy, the rule of law and human rights, through the development of political and economic cooperation in the fields of trade, industrial policy, environment, climate change, energy, science and technology, good governance and conflict resolution, tourism and culture, migration, and the fight against terrorism and piracy, corruption and organised crime.
in writing. i welcome with great enthusiasm the recent agreement signed between the commission and ankara on the 're-admission' of illegal migrants. this is a further step in bringing these two actors closer together to ensure a better fight against illegal 'smugglers'. the greek-turkish border has become an important route for illegal immigration into europe and this agreement is one of the answers to be given to better control the flow of migration. i would like to stress, however, the respect for human rights. this basic condition must be respected, whether in the union or in turkey. the report also marks the beginning of the union's commitment to enter into negotiations with the turkish authorities with a view to lifting the visa requirement. i welcome this step and encourage the authorities to reach a consensus as soon as possible.
in writing. the overland route to greece via turkey is currently the most common route used by migrants and refugees from around the world to enter the european union. turkey is thus the main transit country for illegal immigration into the european union. in order to allow the return of illegal immigrants to the union, the european union and turkey therefore agreed in november 2002 to open negotiations on a readmission agreement. under this agreement, the contracting parties have a reciprocal obligation to readmit their nationals and, where appropriate, third-country nationals without residence permits and stateless persons. the agreement also lays down technical and operational criteria for this purpose.
in writing. i voted in favour of extending rule 147 of the rules of procedure until the end of the eighth parliament.
in writing. the proposal is to make the final vote on each dossier nominal. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. this allows us to know who voted what: a good thing for transparency and accountability of those who represent the citizens. but we must go further to identify those meps who are useless in the european parliament! it is therefore essential to record and make public the attendance of its committees. this will enable citizens to see whether the people they have elected are worthy of their trust! clearly identifying the final vote of each mep in the files is another step in the right direction. we would now like the same transparency where things are really decided, so that we can punish those who, sometimes from the far left and often from the far right, always criticise europe and only come when it is time to pay!
in writing. the abolition of frontiers, free movement, the internal market, etc. are the economic foundations of the european construction. i am very sorry to see that the railway network is an exception. the situation is not likely to change any time soon, following the timidity shown by many of my colleagues in voting the fourth european railway package in plenary. this grouping of six legislative proposals aimed to gradually open up the railway market within the union, thus ensuring more healthy competition for the benefit of all. however, many meps voted to reduce the primary ambition by inserting a purely national logic at the expense of a european vision. despite the real cost of non-competition and the security measures proposed, the final text retains many purely political frontiers. i therefore call on the council to show ambition by giving priority to the european interest in order to guarantee all our citizens a lower price and an increase in the quality of the service offered.
in writing. as adopted in committee, this proposal lays down the rules for the opening of the market for rail passenger services. it preserves the integrated structures which it makes compatible with an open market, where several actors operate on the network. market access may be limited if the viability of certain public services is compromised. this leaves countries free to choose the organisation of their network and to revert at any time to a more integrated model. the compromise text gives priority to the separation of financial flows: the infrastructure manager's revenues must be reinvested in the sector and loans between entities of a holding structure must be supervised by the regulatory body. despite the strict separation of accounts, cooperation with other entities of the holding company remains possible, as long as it is covered by a contract in accordance with the prevailing market behaviour. the rapporteur intends to table a series of amendments in plenary to improve the collaboration between infrastructure managers and railway undertakings in the context of the integration of structures, provided that strict conditions of non-discrimination and transparency are applied, similar to those of separate structures.
in writing. as adopted in committee, this proposal lays down the rules for the opening of the market for rail passenger services. it preserves the integrated structures which it makes compatible with an open market, where several actors operate on the network. market access may be limited if the viability of certain public services is compromised. this leaves countries free to choose the organisation of their network and to revert at any time to a more integrated model. the compromise text gives priority to the separation of financial flows: the infrastructure manager's revenues must be reinvested in the sector, and loans between entities of a holding structure must be supervised by the regulatory body. despite the strict separation of accounts, cooperation with other entities of the holding company remains possible, as long as it is covered by a contract in accordance with the prevailing market behaviour. the rapporteur intends to table a series of amendments in plenary to improve the collaboration between infrastructure managers and railway undertakings in the context of the integration of structures, provided that strict conditions of non-discrimination and transparency are applied, similar to those of separate structures.
in writing. as adopted in committee, this proposal lays down the rules for the opening of the market for rail passenger services. it preserves the integrated structures which it makes compatible with an open market, where several actors operate on the network. market access may be limited if the viability of certain public services is compromised. this leaves countries free to choose the organisation of their network and to revert at any time to a more integrated model. the compromise text gives priority to the separation of financial flows: the infrastructure manager's revenues must be reinvested in the sector, and loans between entities of a holding structure must be supervised by the regulatory body. despite the strict separation of accounts, cooperation with other entities of the holding company remains possible, as long as it is covered by a contract in accordance with the prevailing market behaviour. the rapporteur intends to table a series of amendments in plenary to improve the collaboration between infrastructure managers and railway undertakings in the context of the integration of structures, provided that strict conditions of non-discrimination and transparency are applied, similar to those of separate structures.
in writing. as adopted in committee, this proposal lays down the rules for the opening of the market for rail passenger services. it preserves the integrated structures which it makes compatible with an open market, where several actors operate on the network. market access may be limited if the viability of certain public services is compromised. this leaves countries free to choose the organisation of their network and to revert at any time to a more integrated model. the compromise text gives priority to the separation of financial flows: the infrastructure manager's revenues must be reinvested in the sector, and loans between entities of a holding structure must be supervised by the regulatory body. despite the strict separation of accounts, cooperation with other entities of the holding company remains possible, as long as it is covered by a contract in accordance with the prevailing market behaviour. the rapporteur intends to table a series of amendments in plenary to improve the collaboration between infrastructure managers and railway undertakings in the context of the integration of structures, provided that strict conditions of non-discrimination and transparency are applied, similar to those of separate structures.
in writing. over the last decade, the eu rail market has been profoundly changed, in a progressive manner, by the introduction of three railway legislative packages designed to open up national markets and increase the competitiveness and interoperability of railways at eu level, while maintaining a high level of safety. however, the modal share of rail in intra-eu transport remains modest. despite these three legislative packages, the european railway sector still faces problems such as obstacles to competition, discrimination and the absence of a liberalised, dynamic and business-friendly environment. today, there are too many national rules, with procedures and standards that lack transparency.
in writing. the purpose of this proposal is to repeal regulation (eec) no 1192/69, and therefore the text of the regulation itself cannot be amended. while in all previous railway packages as presented by the commission and then adopted and transposed by the member states, the aim was to extend rights and obligations to all new entrants to the sector and thus to open up the railway market, here the commission proposes to remedy any discrimination between undertakings in the sector, not by making an appropriate recast, as in the case of other legislative texts, but by simply deleting the text, i.e. by repealing the regulation.
in writing. with a strong growth in air traffic forecast for 2030, preventive aviation safety measures should be strengthened to ensure that the number of air accidents does not follow the curve of traffic growth. while the effectiveness of accident investigation systems in the european union is commendable, considerable efforts are now required in the proactive collection and analysis of events. while accident investigations are concerned with analysing the causes of a crash, the event reporting system aims to identify incidents which, if not known and corrected, could contribute to a disaster. this regulation aims to strengthen and deepen the proactive accident prevention system through analysis and rapid exchange of information, thereby contributing to the achievement of the objectives set out in the 2011 transport white paper. the only way to improve safety is to have a system that can clearly identify any failures and take preventive or corrective measures quickly. as this whole proactive system is based on the spontaneous reporting of events by airline employees, it is essential to ensure that an environment of trust, a 'just culture', is established.
in writing. the ecall service will significantly reduce the number of road traffic fatalities across the european union. with this early warning system, we will not only reduce the severity of injuries but also save more lives. as regards the use of the data to be collected, i have paid particular attention to their protection. the deployment of the ecall system should be preceded by an awareness-raising campaign to explain to union citizens the benefits of this new system and the guarantees it offers in terms of data protection.
in writing. on 13 june 2013, the european commission adopted two proposals to equip all new cars with an ecall system by october 2015, which will automatically call the emergency services (the single european emergency call number 112) in the event of a serious accident. even if passengers are unable to speak, ecall creates a voice link with the nearest emergency call centre and sends a distress call. the system, which allows for calls without language problems, should make a significant contribution to reducing the number of deaths and injuries on european roads, by reducing the response times of emergency services. it is estimated that 2,500 lives could be saved annually; in addition, the severity of many injuries could be reduced considerably. the ecall system improves incident management while reducing traffic problems caused by accidents and the likelihood of secondary accidents. while private emergency call services are already available in 0.7% of european cars, none of them offer eu-wide coverage.
in writing. amendments are to be made to directive 2002/92/ec of the european parliament and of the council. it is therefore proposed to revise this directive. since the main purpose and object of this directive is to harmonise national provisions in the above-mentioned field, it should be based on articles 53 (1) and 62 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the form of a directive is appropriate because it allows, if necessary, an adaptation of the implementing measures to any specificity of the market or the particular legal system of a member state. this directive is based on article 53 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, since its purpose is to coordinate national rules governing access to the activity of insurance and reinsurance intermediation.
written. - the proposal for the third action plan on health (2014-2020) was adopted today in the european parliament. with a budget of €449.4 million, the european union will support member states with differentiated projects to innovate their healthcare, increase their commitment to sustainable healthcare and protect eu citizens from cross-border diseases. i am proud that we have succeeded, together with the other green parties, in including environmental factors as risk factors in addition to those linked to a particular lifestyle. pollution is responsible for many of today's chronic and noncommunicable diseases. furthermore, our proposal to add a reference to rare diseases was accepted. that is one of the reasons why i voted in favour of this proposal today. it seems to me that this is also a clear signal from the european parliament to the member states that savings should not be made at the expense of health care.
in writing. the health for growth programme has an overall budget of €446 million for the period 2014-2020, i.e. more than €60 million per year. it aims to focus on the main areas where eu action can bring real added value in the health sector. it is part of the europe 2020 strategy and aims to encourage innovation in healthcare, ensure its sustainability and improve the well-being of european citizens. this funding complements a number of health-related measures through the structural funds and the framework programme for research and innovation 2014-2020. compared to the previous period (2007-2013), this programme has seen an increase of 5.7%. potential applicants for funding will be national authorities, public and private bodies, international organisations and non-governmental organisations through co-financing. it is essential that the procedures and access to these budgets are as simple as possible so that they can be better used by member states and health professionals.
in writing. digital services and networks are increasingly internet-based infrastructures, and the interdependence of broadband networks and digital services is growing. the internet is becoming the dominant platform for communications, services, education, participation in social and political life and economic activity. the trans-european availability of broadband, secure and very high-speed internet access and digital services of general interest is therefore essential for economic and social growth, competitiveness, social inclusion and the single market.
in writing. in the digital age, the provision of information and services online is increasing. as a result, the number of public and private sector websites is increasing rapidly. there are now 761,000 public sector websites that already offer access to information and services only. however, less than 10% of websites in the european union currently meet web accessibility standards. the union market for web accessibility is made up of more than 175[nbsp ]000 companies. the turnover generated by the approximately one million people working in the web development industry is estimated at eur 144 billion. accessibility of the web is essential, as it allows everyone, including people with disabilities, to use websites. public sector bodies and all other entities providing basic services to the public need to adopt inclusive web accessibility practices in order to fulfil their responsibilities towards all citizens.
in writing. since the crisis, long-term financing has become scarce and difficult. these are the very foundations of our economy. they are the raw material for our growth, job creation, innovation and european competitiveness. it is essential that public administrations and enterprises (small and large) have access to long-term finance that is both satisfactory and predictable. we need to pay particular attention to ensuring that these investments can accompany the necessary structural reforms and steer our economy towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing. the global financial crisis that followed the collapse of lehman has clearly demonstrated the need for further action to strengthen the financial sector. while the united states has focused on a single comprehensive piece of legislation, the dodd-frank act, the european union is strengthening financial regulation through a number of pieces of legislation. however, this approach has made it extremely difficult to assess the cumulative effect of all financial legislation on the economy in general and on long-term financing in particular. however, it has become clear that in some areas, careful 'calibration' of certain provisions, notably in solvency ii, may be necessary to avoid creating barriers to long-term investment. this recommended 'calibration' is in no way a call for deregulation that could once again jeopardise the stability of the financial sector.
in writing. this afternoon, the european parliament adopted a report on sexual exploitation, prostitution and their consequences for equality between women and men. no one doubts the obvious need for better regulation of prostitution and the fight against pimping. but the radical abolitionist approach of the british reporter, penalizing customers and stigmatizing prostitutes, is anything but an acceptable solution. i rejected this report, which was so lacking in nuance and so out of touch with reality. advocating the swedish model and following the path of criminalization, as the french government has recently done, will only increase the precariousness of prostitutes by forcing them into further hiding and distancing them from support and health associations. many women do this work of their own free will, and we cannot prevent them from having free use of their bodies. we must tackle the networks, combat human trafficking and the violence it causes, but certainly not punish blindly instead of regulating to increase safety. the ultra-feminists have therefore won this vote, at the expense of thousands of women who would have no other role to play than that of victim.
in writing. this report on prostitution and sexual exploitation is based on the guidelines for victims of violence and human trafficking. according to various reports, there are some 40 to 42 million people engaged in prostitution worldwide, and about 96 percent of those in prostitution are women. the first eurostat report with official prostitution data was published in april 2013. it focused on human trafficking in the eu between 2008 and 2010. it indicated that 62% of trafficked women were victims of sexual exploitation and that they were largely from eu countries. prostitution is also linked to organized crime, the second largest after drug trafficking, and according to the havoscope website, it generates an estimated $186 billion in annual revenue worldwide.
in writing. countries that have long been importers of minerals, such as the united states, japan and european countries, face increasing competition for access to strategic mineral resources and security of supply. this situation gives developing countries the opportunity to benefit from their natural resources. while the unprecedented global demand for minerals and other natural resources represents a unique opportunity to enable mining to contribute to sustainable development, it also poses significant challenges for developing countries. the exploitation of high-value natural resources such as oil, gas, minerals and timber is a major source of conflict worldwide, especially in a context of increasing competition for access to increasingly scarce renewable resources such as land and water. environmental degradation, population growth and climate change are further exacerbating this situation. the poor management of land and natural resources contributes to new conflicts and hinders the peaceful resolution of existing conflicts.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, more than 80 people lost their lives last week. you can say that each of these people wanted a different ukraine, another ukraine. the protestors on the maidan – and this was my impression when i was there – did not want ukraine to go to the west or to go to the east: they wanted ukraine to go forward. they want a different ukraine. most of the people on the maidan want to live in a normal, free and democratic country. that is a problem: ukraine is not free; it is not democratic, and it is certainly not a country without corruption. corruption and crooks are the problems of ukraine, and these are the main problems that have to be solved. some people are saying that the protests on the maidan were a geopolitical problem. no, it was not a geopolitical protest; it was an apolitical protest. it was a protest against those who were ruling that country. it was not mainly a protest against russia or against russians; it was mainly a protest against those who are in power: the crooks, the oligarchs, and the corruption that is part of the daily life of every person in ukraine. my second point concerns the role of the union. finally, mr commissioner, we decided to launch the sanctions, but let us be honest: we could have done that before, as parliament had already asked at the end of january[nbsp ]2014. in a resolution of 6[nbsp ]february[nbsp ]2014, we said it is time now to launch a number of sanctions, or at least to prepare them so as to send a clear signal to the rulers in ukraine that things have to change. but ok, let us not be too critical. in the end, they played an important role. i learned on thursday evening, there on the maidan, that the announcement of this decision on sanctions had been a game-changer, together with the fact that twelve members of the party of regions went over to the democratic opposition and changed the majority in the rada in a few minutes and in a few hours. so we – as the european union – can play a decisive role; we can do it with our sanctions and with common action. my third point is that we need a credible common strategy with the union in the future. there are the donors/friends, as mr[nbsp ]salafranca has already mentioned. it is also vitally important that the commission is preparing an emergency macro-financial assistance package, because we cannot wait for a donor conference to do something in the next days and the next weeks. we also need not only a trade and association agreement, but to enlarge that agreement, with some visa facilitation and liberalisation – not for the crooks, not for the oligarchs, but for ordinary citizens, for the students and for the scientists who can benefit from it. we need that as the third part of a strategy to prepare for the elections of 25[nbsp ]may[nbsp ]2014. let us be honest, it is a huge task to make sure that the elections are transparent and democratic. there have never been democratic elections in ukraine; the way they give seats to people in the verkhovna rada is to put a candidate in contact with an oligarch. the oligarch pays for the electoral campaign of the candidate, and then upon his election, the candidate has to listen to the oligarch. that is the way things work today in the ukrainian political system. we have to change that. we can help them, and we have to do it now – not two days before the election. we cannot change ukraine into a democratic society two days before the election. it is now with odihr, with the osea and with the council of europe. finally, i think that we have to do something: we have to take responsibility through adopting a strategy to fight corruption and money laundering in ukraine, because that is the main problem. everything is corrupt: if you want health services, you have to pay. officially they are free, but you have to pay. if you want to be appointed to the civil service, you have to pay for it. every service has to be paid for additionally through corruption. we have to play a role in this by using our expertise to show them how we can do things another way. we also have to take on our responsibility, because a lot of the money used by these oligarchs comes from accounts in european banks. perhaps we also have to take responsibility so that we can fight against that.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, mr chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, i wanted to ask you for your opinion on two proposals. firstly, i think it is essential that an international commission of inquiry should carry out a thorough investigation into the responsibility of everyone on that day, when 80 ukrainians paid with their lives for the right to respect and democracy. the change of power is far from being a sufficient punishment for those who ordered these murders. secondly, i would like to invite the european parliament to receive, as it should, the representatives of the future ukrainian government, and to do so at one of the next parliamentary sittings, once the government has been appointed. it is in the interest of both parties to establish relations now. what do you think of these two proposals?
exactly one week ago today, i was standing in maidan square in kiev. the next morning, all hell broke loose. the final convulsions of a criminal regime dragged dozens of people to their deaths. apocalyptic, and that in 2014 in the heart of europe, i will always shudder when i think back to it. where are we now? well, the people have a clear idea of where the country should go. it chooses the democratic path, it chooses the european path, in good relations with all its neighbours. but at the same time, the problem that is slowing down this process does exist. ukraine urgently needs a democratically-minded, professional government, a new team to carry out the necessary reforms, to set up an efficient administration, less centralised and with more powers for the regions, transparent, accountable. after the orange revolution, this is the second revolution in ten years. nothing changed then, this time too much blood has been shed. the deaths of so many people cannot be in vain. ukraine is counting on the eu to actively help it to avoid repeating the mistakes of the past. don't leave them behind!
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is an idea of freedom, peace, solidarity and shared prosperity better than anywhere else in the world. these values are politically, but above all legally, anchored in the european treaties. it is a matter of adhering to these values and to the treaties which enshrine the fundamental rights of all european citizens. when a country joins the european union, it takes a legal commitment to respect the texts that enshrine our common values. we are witnessing in all the countries of the european union violations of the values, principles and legislation which must guarantee the rule of law and respect for the values of humanity and universality which characterize our institutions and our texts. we must admit that there are still too many places in europe and too many cases of serious breaches of the rules to which all the states subscribed in order to join the european union. there are too many examples where eu member states trivialize or ignore the rights of the disabled, migrants, roma, trade unions, the right to strike, the right to associate, to assemble, the protection of privacy, the independence of the media, the judiciary, the army, and so on. if europe is to be a moral force that intends to influence the world for the better, it must be severe and rigorous with itself. we europeans are right to fight for democracy, the rule of law, the impartiality of public authority, the protection of privacy and individual and collective rights everywhere in the world. but we will do so with all the more effectiveness if we are credible. i repeat, by joining the european union, the member states are joining the legislative acts which guarantee the exercise of these values. unfortunately, too often today some people forget what they committed themselves to yesterday. the report we are presenting to you strengthens the human rights policy based on the present treaties and opens up a reflection for a future revision of the treaties. nothing prevents the member states today from completing the process of accession of the european union to the european convention on human rights, from completing the process of accession of the european union to the european social charter, from acceding to the conventions of the council of europe on human rights, from setting up the copenhagen mechanism under the moral aegis of a committee of wise men. this would give member states the guarantee of being treated equally, fairly, transparently and objectively, on the one hand, and the citizen of being respected in his fundamental rights. the second pillar of the institutional part of this report calls for a reflection on the necessary amendments to the treaties. but we claim that the essential can already be achieved on the basis of the existing treaties. the adoption of this report will be a major step forward in ensuring better protection for our citizens. these fundamental rights and european values cannot be treated as separate and circumvented subjects. they must be applied consistently and horizontally. the report calls for the integration of ambitious policies and action programmes to guarantee fundamental rights, including the adoption of an anti-discrimination directive. we have paid particular attention to ensuring the application of article[nbsp ]2 of the treaty, to maintaining the horizontal approach, to protecting minorities and all citizens in a vulnerable position, to protecting witnesses who dare to denounce illegal situations, to affirming the fundamental right to privacy and to upholding the secularism and impartiality of the state. finally, i would like to make one last appeal to the members who are presenting an alternative resolution. i fully respect your views, ladies and gentlemen, but your draft is a totally watered-down version of my report. you're draining it of the most basic elements. you prefer a safe approach, which, in some respects, frankly, worries me. you propose to delete many references which, however, violate fundamental rights, including references to the european social charter, european history and the genesis of the european project, the copenhagen mechanism, the problem of overcrowding in prisons, the suicide rate within the lgbt community, secularism and the strict separation of religion and state.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i'm not going to respond to some obscurantist outrage i heard here. i'm being tried for witchcraft, including mrs. záborská and mr. allam. i'm not gonna answer that. a few quick remarks: i remain convinced, as my colleague mr engel is, of the importance of the impartiality of public authorities in all our states. this is one of the very foundations of european values, which is also legally translated into obligations. i think it's important to remember that. finally, i do not understand why we refuse to have an annual state-by-state assessment. the main aim is to indicate, in each state, the progress still to be made. we are not denouncing; it is simply an evaluation which makes it possible to encourage, to arrange, to correct, also, a certain number of shootings. i believe that the problem of fundamental rights in europe will never be truly solved. this is, of course, an evolutionary process. i would like to say that i was pleased to hear mr coelho and mrs bauer, even if we have our differences, i do not deny them. i want to say that ms. bauer, as a fictional reporter, has shown a lot of creativity, a lot of goodwill in trying to move this case forward. this is obviously not the case with such caricatured positions [nbsp] and i refer to it as qualifying and ideological as those i heard from the mouth of mme[nbsp] mathieu. it's caricatural to say that i took an ideological stand. no, i am simply trying to capture everything that is wrong with europe so that we can all ask the right questions. i simply hope that tomorrow we will have a significant majority to be able to take a significant step forward in the defence and protection of human rights. i thank all the fictitious rapporteurs who participated and made a very positive contribution to these discussions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in order to achieve integrated management of the external borders of the european union, it is essential to continue to harmonise visa procedures, including common rules on the issuing of visas. in this context, i am convinced that consular coverage in third countries must be improved, the issuing of humanitarian visas by member states encouraged and thus the temporary reception of refugees and human rights defenders in danger in third countries facilitated. the commission should also be urged to consider the possibility of creating a common european mechanism for issuing short-stay visas, based on an individual risk assessment, to supplement the presumption of risk linked to nationality. finally, reciprocity with countries for which the european union grants visa-free travel is to be achieved and the exchange of information between the council, the european parliament and the commission improved. i also think it would be useful to establish a contact group on visa policy within the libe committee. i am very pleased that the trilogue on the report on the revision of regulation no 539/2001 has been concluded and that the updating of the lists has been used to introduce in the body of the text, and not in the recitals, the criteria relating to both fundamental rights and economic benefits in terms of tourism and foreign trade. finally, i believe that the launch of the procedure for an exemption agreement between the european union and ukraine is a response to the calls of ukrainian civil society. only by taking such steps can effective and legal access for all third country nationals and the safety of european citizens be guaranteed.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a dispute between the commission and the council. the new draft law concerns an optional legal framework for online contracts between consumers and producers. however, neither consumer associations nor companies see any added value in it. the law, on the other hand, will lead to confusion, legal uncertainty, complexity and even higher transaction costs. instead of guaranteeing european citizens a higher level of consumer protection, strict national legislation may actually undermine it. the european provisions in rome i - which guarantee that consumers enjoy the highest possible protection enshrined in their national legislation - are thus put on the back burner. in fact, the european law of purchase will be to the detriment of the consumer and i therefore vote against it.
in writing. i followed the position of my distinguished colleague, evelyne gebhardt, who was, in my opinion, the best defender of consumer rights. unfortunately, that is not the position that has been taken!
in writing. - i am pleased that the european parliament has today adopted the revised version of the proposal for a common european sales law. by limiting the scope of application to the sector where this instrument has its greatest potential added value, namely crossborder distance selling and in particular online contracts, parliament is showing a healthy mix of pragmatism and ambition. i am convinced that this project can add value to the internal market and thus be a good thing for european prosperity. both businesses and consumers benefit from a better functioning internal market, lower costs and increased legal certainty and trust. in these times of economic crisis, we must not let these kinds of opportunities go unused. i am also glad that parliament is maintaining the possibility of using this system for b2b transactions. it is also good for user-friendliness and legal certainty that the european commission should draw up model contracts and run an information campaign. i hope that the council will adopt its position soon and then work out the details of this purchase right instrument with the european parliament.
in writing. it is now 12 years since the european union adopted the current tobacco products directive. this directive introduced a series of positive measures in the fight against smoking. nevertheless, tobacco remains the number one preventable cause of death in the european union, killing nearly 700,000 people each year. it was therefore necessary to go further. an important element of this directive was the issue of tobacco alternatives, in particular electronic cigarettes. i think this is a serious possibility, because it is less harmful than tobacco. we therefore want e-cigarettes to be at least as widely available on the market as tobacco substitutes, to offer smokers a less harmful alternative. we therefore regret the council's demands for too strict measures on electronic cigarettes. the directive provides that these will no longer be regarded as medicines but as consumer goods. however, member states which have so far considered them to be medicinal products will be able to continue to do so under certain conditions. that is why i have decided to abstain in this vote.
in writing. yes, europe must continue to fight the dangers of tobacco, its trivialization and the fatal attraction it represents for young people. i have defended, on behalf of the liberals, all measures aimed at tightening the law: the ban on menthol, which has unfortunately been delayed; the extension of measures to include chicha tobacco, which is so attractive to young people; the ban on the use of tobacco products in the manufacture of cigarettes, which is unfortunately not yet in force; the ban on the use of tobacco products in the manufacture of cigarettes, which is unfortunately not in force; the ban on the use of tobacco products in the manufacture of cigarettes, which is not yet in force; the ban on the use of tobacco products in the manufacture of cigarettes, which is not yet in force; the ban on the use of tobacco products in the manufacture of cigarettes, which is not yet in force; the ban on the use of tobacco products in the manufacture of cigarettes, which is not yet in force; the ban on the use of tobacco products in the manufacture of cigarettes, which is not yet in force; the ban on tobacco products in the manufacture of cigarettes, which is not yet in force; and the requirement to put combined health warnings on 65% of the surface of the packaging, those are my amendments! but thinking and acting for public health is also about encouraging people to get out of the trap. the electronic cigarette is a valuable tool in this regard. and an independent french study reminds us this morning: the electronic cigarette is reducing tobacco sales! i do not accept that, in the guilty opacity of the trilogues, the commission and the council have remained "deaf" to the expectations of the 8 million european vapers: 8 million citizens who use a product that is 100% less harmful than cigarettes on a daily basis. the europe i believe in does not work like that. so i refrained.
in writing. following the vote in plenary on the amended commission proposal in october 2013, the rapporteur requested a mandate to launch negotiations with the council. the commission's proposal was approved by a large majority and the report was referred back to the committee on the environment. a series of informal trilogues were held with a view to reaching agreement on a compromise text. the negotiations were successful and their outcome is close to the position adopted by parliament in october. if the ep adopts this compromise, the dossier can be concluded at first reading. the main aim of the directive is to discourage young people from starting to smoke. fake flavors and packaging have been banned, and rules have been put in place about e-cigarettes. eu member states are free to go further with packaging if they wish.
in writing. to ensure the effectiveness of the single market for the benefit of citizens and businesses, it is essential to improve the information that citizens and businesses have access to regarding their rights in the single market and the rules in force in different member states, as well as to offer them the necessary assistance in solving cross-border problems. these objectives have been a priority for parliament for several years. solvit as a tool has achieved tangible results and has proven its usefulness and value for the single market. nevertheless, there is still considerable room for improvement in giving citizens and businesses the opportunity to enjoy their rights in the single market through solvit and other measures. many examples of superficial, late or incorrect implementation and of national provisions contrary to eu legislation can be and are being discovered through solvit files. solvit is often the body to which citizens and businesses turn to draw the attention of the authorities to certain malfunctions. solvit therefore has considerable potential to improve the functioning of the single market as a whole and much more action is needed to use this knowledge and observations to correct problems.
in writing. efficient and impartial justice is based primarily on the ability to obtain evidence. in the face of transnational crime in europe, it is necessary to facilitate it through a european approach and not confined to a purely national perspective. such a mechanism already exists in europe. however, due to its complexity and fragmentation, it is used very rarely, to the detriment of judicial efficiency. i therefore welcome this report, which seeks to strengthen such a mechanism, in particular through the principle of mutual recognition, coordination of investigations and respect for fundamental rights in criminal proceedings. i would also like to reiterate my commitment to the need to establish an ambitious european criminal area based on a comprehensive approach. much remains to be done to combat crime in europe more effectively, and in strict compliance with our fundamental values.
in writing. the challenge for the european criminal justice system is therefore to ensure that it is carried out in a way that respects and guarantees fundamental rights. it is significant that the preamble to the charter of fundamental rights expressly refers to the area of 'freedom, security and justice', which is by its very nature particularly sensitive in terms of fundamental rights and freedoms. it is unnecessary to recall that the guarantee must be 'real' and not 'formal'. the deliberate creation of the european criminal area implies that judicial review of respect for fundamental rights in the union must be guaranteed. the importance of the european criminal area is now clear. this is a priority in the construction of europe, with a gradual emancipation from the conventional cooperation mechanisms. after promoting police and judicial cooperation to compensate for the disappearance of internal borders, the european union is now moving beyond this interstate cooperation towards the progressive construction of a homogeneous criminal area.
in writing. moldova has in recent years undertaken reforms that have proved difficult to implement. in particular, it has shown a genuine desire to strengthen its institutional system and its relations with the union. in view of these efforts, i welcome the adoption of this report, which aims to exempt moldovan citizens from the visa requirement. this liberalization will encourage the mobility of peoples, thus strengthening economic, cultural, political and scientific links between the two sides. i am convinced that moldova and the european union will benefit from such an agreement.
in writing. the purpose of this proposal is to amend the annexes to regulation (ec) no[nbsp ]539/2001 listing the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders of the member states and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement to transfer the republic of moldova from the negative list (annex i) to the positive list (annex ii). the legal basis for the common visa policy is article 77 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. the conclusion of this agreement represents an important step for the union on the road to good governance. the agreement aims to make global forest management more sustainable, to stop deforestation and forest degradation, and to promote systemic change in the forest sector by rewarding the efforts of law-abiding economic operators who source their timber from legitimate and reliable suppliers and protecting them from unfair competition. we encourage the indonesian state to make a strong political commitment to implement the vpa in order to improve both forest governance and the recognition of forest and indigenous communities' land rights, and we ask the european commission to ensure that the shortcomings of the svlk are addressed and the system is functioning properly before any flegt authorisation for indonesian timber products is granted.
in writing. deforestation and forest degradation are major environmental problems worldwide. although our european continent seems to be immune to the phenomenon of illegal logging, it is nevertheless affected on two levels: when it comes to the european consumer making an informed choice of furniture that is certified as 'durable'; when it comes to making a strong citizen gesture and refusing to buy food products containing palm oil, a cheap vegetable oil produced on vast areas of land instead of the rainforest. the example of indonesia is crying truth: the third largest rainforest in the world after the amazon and the congo basin, and especially 1,240,000 hectares of forest lost between 2009 and 2011. unfortunately, this environmental bleeding goes hand in hand with the loss of biodiversity and the multiplication of co2 emissions. europe could not stand idly by in the face of this global threat. that is why i approved this afternoon the jadot report on the voluntary partnership agreement between the european union and indonesia on forestry regulations. with a common objective: to ensure that timber imported into the union is grown, harvested and transported legally.
in writing. the conclusion of this agreement is an important step for the eu in its efforts to make global forest management more sustainable, to stop deforestation and forest degradation, and to promote systemic change in the forest sector by rewarding the efforts of law-abiding economic operators who source timber from legitimate and reliable suppliers and protecting them from unfair competition. however, this heritage is being threatened by the massive and unbridled destruction of tropical rainforest and carbon-rich peatlands for palm oil and paper production, making indonesia the world's third largest emitter of greenhouse gases and a major contributor to climate change. the voluntary partnership agreement also introduces new standards for the management of indonesian forests. however, it should be recalled that only approximately 10%[nbsp ]% in value of indonesian timber and timber products exports are currently destined for the european market, while the rest is mainly exported to asian countries.
in writing. free movement is a cornerstone of the european union. in order to guarantee such a principle, it was necessary to adopt a simplified regime for the control of persons at the external borders and common rules thus allowing croatia and cyprus to recognise unilaterally, as equivalent to their national visas, the purpose of transit through their territory or of intended stays on their territory. this agreement will make it possible to apply the schengen acquis more effectively.
in writing. holders of documents issued by member states implementing the schengen acquis in full or of documents issued by cyprus do not pose any risk to croatia, as long as they have been subjected by those member states to all necessary checks. in order to avoid an unjustified administrative burden for croatia, common rules should be adopted to allow it to recognise unilaterally certain documents issued by those member states as equivalent to its national visas and to establish a simplified regime for the control of persons at the external borders based on that unilateral equivalence.
in writing. as president of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly and as the fictitious rapporteur for this report, i am pleased to be able to guarantee visa-free travel to the 16 pacific islands, which will serve to strengthen relations between the parties. such progress has a considerable impact on local populations. visa liberalisation will make it easier for them to travel to europe without having to go through many bureaucratic formalities. the geographical complexity of these territories reinforced the high cost of obtaining such documents, without any real european justification. these countries do not pose any risk in terms of illegal immigration or threat to european public order. i therefore call on the european union to sign bilateral agreements on full reciprocity as soon as possible so that the citizens of these islands can quickly enjoy the guarantees offered by this report.
in writing. the purpose of this proposal from the european commission is to update this regulation. since the criteria laid down in regulation (ec) no 539/2001 may change over time in different third countries, the composition of the negative and positive lists should be reviewed at regular intervals. in presenting this proposal, the european commission is responding to the call of the european council, expressed in the stockholm programme, to review these two lists periodically. since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the european parliament has the power of co-decision on the whole of the common visa policy in accordance with article 77 (2) (a) of the tfeu. in this context, the european commission is proposing, first of all, to lift the visa requirement for nationals of the following caribbean and pacific island states: dominica, grenada, kiribati, the marshall islands, micronesia, nauru, palau, saint lucia, saint vincent and the grenadines, the solomon islands, samoa, east timor, tonga, trinidad and tobago, tuvalu and vanuatu.
in writing. i would like to make two points, and i would like you to follow me on these. firstly, it is essential that an international commission of inquiry should carry out a thorough investigation into the responsibility of everyone during that dark day in which 80 ukrainians paid with their lives for the right to respect for democracy. the change of power is far from being a sufficient punishment for those who ordered these murders! secondly, i would ask the european parliament to receive the representatives of the future european government in the proper manner, and to do so in one of the next two parliamentary sessions, once the government has been appointed. it is in the interests of both sides that democracy and stability are established in our ukrainian neighbours.
in writing. the situation in iraq remains highly volatile, with the country facing serious political, security and socioeconomic challenges. with 2013 setting a new sordid record in terms of casualties, we cannot remain indifferent to the unspeakable slaughter of civilians. the syrian crisis is also having a contagious effect in iraq, where islamic state in iraq and the levant militants are expanding their activities. we strongly condemn all terrorist attacks and sectarian violence and call for an inclusive national dialogue to end the bloodshed. as regards the threats to press and media freedom, i call on all actors, governmental and non-governmental, to do their utmost to respect and protect journalists and media organisations from violence. more generally, we call on the iraqi authorities to guarantee the safety of the most vulnerable groups, such as women, young people and human rights defenders.
in writing. we call on the iraqi authorities given that the security situation has exacerbated the problems for vulnerable groups such as women, journalists, youth and human rights defenders, including trade unionists to urgently devote more resources to programmes aimed at improving the situation. we encourage interfaith dialogue between sunni and shiite clergy as a necessary instrument for resolving conflicts. we believe that the recent talks between the e3+3 and iran also offer iraq an opportunity to serve as a bridge, since it is one of the few countries to have strong relations with both sides. we call on the iranian leadership to engage constructively in stabilizing the region.
in writing. the use of drones has been steadily increasing over the last decade, creating a series of unprecedented problems in international law. indeed, many civilians have been killed or seriously injured by drone strikes without any real accountability being established due to the lack of transparency surrounding the use of armed drones. that is why i thought it important to vote for this resolution in order to clarify the union's position on the matter. we call on the member states, but also on third states, to respect international human rights law, which prohibits arbitrary killings in all circumstances. we also call on the union to promote greater transparency and accountability on the part of countries using armed drones. finally, we want the european union to adopt a common position on this matter in order to prevent the misuse of these drones.
in writing. we oppose the illegal use of armed drones, in particular for targeted extrajudicial executions. we call on the member states, the council and the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy to denounce and prohibit these practices. we call on member states to integrate armed drones into relevant international disarmament and arms control regimes.
the michel report on human rights is so steeped in cultural marxism and victim-thinking that it is a piece of nonsense to explain in one minute of speaking time why i voted against it. there is again the whole panoply of rights for immigrants and especially roma again without ever touching on, for example, the rights and the capacity of our member states to take in. there is never any talk of personal responsibility to improve their situation. it is always and automatically the fault of society, of racism, of discrimination and so on. we also note that there is a temptation to list so-called discrimination, sometimes to the point of ridicule. the report calls for the european commission to take action against so-called gender stereotypes in the media and in advertising. probably should be commercials with boys playing with dolls and girls dressed as firemen.
in writing. the achievements of history such as european integration, peace, respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy and equality are the result of the commitment of men and women who fought to transform dictatorships into democracies so that europe could become the community of law we know today. it is our responsibility to make this democracy a reality, to ensure that the eu's values are respected, and to promote and strengthen this culture of fundamental rights within the european institutions. that is why i took the initiative to draw up this report and its annex. we must highlight the efforts we still have to make to guarantee all european values to every citizen. among the answers given in the report, i advocate the establishment of a mechanism to ensure that the member states comply with the copenhagen criteria after their accession by ensuring that the situation is monitored within the union and in each member state and, if necessary, by imposing effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions.
in writing. i would like to reiterate that it is fundamental for the european union, its institutions and the member states to ensure respect for the common european values as set out in article 2 of the eu treaty and that all the instruments currently provided for in the treaties to this end must be applied and implemented as a matter of urgency, as must the preparation of amendments to the treaties where necessary. i also stress that the obligation to respect the copenhagen criteria remains for the member states of the union even after their accession and that fundamental rights are part of the primary law of the union and must be respected in the application of that law by any court or authority, both at national and european level; i regret in particular the length of the negotiations for the union's accession to the echr and the fact that this accession has not yet been ratified.
in writing. i welcome with great interest this report which seeks to launch a call for reform of the european arrest warrant. the latter has proved to be a success, becoming a powerful mechanism that fully contributes to judicial efficiency in a europe that guarantees open borders. however, as the report indicates, it has some weaknesses which we need to address. i therefore share the concerns expressed in this report about respect for fundamental rights and the need to avoid the disproportionate and abusive use of this mechanism, especially for minor offences.
in writing. in order not to undermine the credibility of the european arrest warrant and of the union's criminal justice initiatives as a whole, these problems should be addressed. different reasons are at the root of the problems with the functioning of the european arrest warrant: incomplete and inconsistent implementation of the framework decision, including non-compliance with deadlines, shortcomings in the framework decision and the incomplete and unbalanced nature of the union's criminal justice area. the problems arising from the shortcomings of the framework decision are not necessarily specific to this measure, but are in some ways common to other mutual recognition instruments and also have to be taken into account in the incomplete and unbalanced nature of the union's criminal justice area. it is therefore considered necessary to take legislative action at union level in order to reform the functioning of the european arrest warrant and other mutual recognition instruments, and to ensure a better balance within the union criminal justice area.
in writing. deforestation and forest degradation are major environmental problems worldwide. our european continent may seem to be immune to the phenomenon of illegal logging, but it is nevertheless affected on two levels: when it comes to the european consumer making an informed choice of furniture that has been certified as 'durable'; when it comes to making a strong citizen's statement and refusing to buy food products containing palm oil, a cheap vegetable oil produced on vast areas of land instead of the rainforest. the example of indonesia is crying truth: the third largest rainforest in the world after the amazon and the congo basin, and especially 1,240,000 hectares of forest lost between 2009 and 2011. unfortunately, this environmental bleeding goes hand in hand with the loss of biodiversity and the multiplication of co2 emissions. europe could not stand idly by in the face of this global threat. that is why i have this afternoon approved the resolution in favour of the voluntary partnership agreement between the european union and indonesia on forestry regulations. with a common objective: to ensure that timber imported into the union is grown, harvested and transported legally.
in writing. the considerable voluntary efforts made by indonesia to combat illegal logging and associated illicit trade in forestry by developing its svlk with the participation of the various stakeholders should be welcomed. parliament welcomed the important progress made in recent months, but remained concerned about certain problems. it recalls that in order to be able to officially issue flegt licences, the operation of the svlk must be geared towards achieving the objectives of the vpa. the outcome of the negotiations on the voluntary partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of indonesia on forest law enforcement, governance and trade in timber products to the european union can be encouraged. it reiterated its support for the conclusion of the vpa and its willingness to support its implementation in order to contribute to its success. however, it should also be noted that to date, the majority of the relevant wood sources in the country have not been certified by the svlk and that uncertified wood is still entering the supply chain in large volumes.
in writing. for several weeks, peaceful student marches against government failures have ended in deadly violence. as the situation has worsened in these last days, we cannot afford to sit idly by. i strongly condemn the repression by the government authorities and illegal armed groups. these violent pro-government groups are operating with impunity. we therefore call on the venezuelan authorities to disarm and dissolve these groups immediately. we also remind the venezuelan government through this resolution that freedom of expression and the right to demonstrate are fundamental rights in any democracy. the venezuelan government has a responsibility to ensure the security of all its citizens and to respect the principle of separation of powers. students, journalists and opposition figures have been repressed and persecuted. this has to stop. in order to pacify the situation and to address the demands of the people, we encourage the venezuelan authorities to conduct a peaceful dialogue open to all sectors of venezuelan society.
in writing. we condemn all acts of violence and deplore the tragic deaths that occurred during the peaceful demonstrations on 12 february 2014 and in the following days. parliament expressed its sincere condolences to the families of the victims. we are deeply in solidarity with the venezuelan people and fear that further demonstrations could fuel violence, which would only deepen the gap between the government and the opposition and further polarize the sensitive political developments in venezuela. parliament called on the representatives of all parties and all sectors of venezuelan society to act and to speak with calm.
in writing. we welcome the progress made in the area of the visa acquis. parliament also called on the commission and the member states to improve the implementation of the acquis; it particularly called for the strengthening of local cooperation under schengen in order to improve the implementation of the visa code in the short term. but it should be remembered that measures should be adopted in the future to further harmonise visa procedures, including genuine common rules on the issuing of visas.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to strengthen the knowledge, recommendations and initiatives of the committee on fisheries and the committee on women's rights in relation to the socioeconomic role played by women in the fisheries and aquaculture sector, in the context of the reform of the common fisheries policy. women working in the fisheries sector continue to face many needs. it is necessary to regulate their working conditions and guarantee them equal treatment with men, to ensure that future generations are attracted to working conditions in the sector and to recognise the contribution of women to the sustainable development of fisheries. to this end, it is essential that this reform of the common fisheries policy lays the foundations for the development of aid, guidelines, plans and training programmes, as well as for the recognition and enforcement of the rights needed to ensure a better and more stable future for women workers in the fisheries sector.
in writing. i would like to recall that the cultural sector represents 5 million jobs and 2.6%[nbsp ] of the union's gdp, is one of the main drivers of european growth and a source of new and non-delocatable jobs, stimulates innovation and is an effective means of combating the current recession. it should also be remembered that copyright legislation should balance the interests of, among others, creators and consumers. i believe, in this context, that all european consumers should have the right to make private copies of content acquired in a lawful manner. i therefore invite the commission to submit a legislative proposal to revise directive 2001/29/ec on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society, and in particular to include a provision to fully harmonise the exceptions and restrictions concerning, inter alia, private copying.
i am very pleased with this report by mr marinescu. it provides a good overview of what the european parliament wants from the european investment bank. two things. climate and energy policy. i think we are very clear that more efforts must be made towards sustainable energy projects. i think the balance should also shift more clearly to renewable energy projects. smart energy infrastructure also needs to play a greater role. by 2015, a new plan must be put forward, a stronger plan, including the resources that will be used for climate and energy. mr. hoyer, are you willing to commit yourself to that? transparency and money laundering policy. i think there are a number of positive aspects to this report. in particular, that there should be no cooperation with companies that clearly have a bad reputation in terms of transparency, fraud, corruption. that there should be no cooperation when working in tax havens. one last thing, mr hoyer. i'm going to have to ask you. i would ask you to comment on the nigerian fraud case, which has also been raised in the british house of commons by my colleague caroline lucas, where the british ombudsman says very clearly that the british development cooperation service has been seriously wronged. millions have been lost. would you like to comment on that today, mr. hoyer?
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, for over fifty years europe has been leading the efforts towards gender equality. i am very proud of the substantial progress which has been achieved during those years – and also since this commission took office – with the constant support of parliament. i think the report which has just been explained by madam zuber is a testimony to the way parliament has always taken the lead in advancing the cause of women. we have come a long way, but we still need to reduce many obstacles which women are facing in their private, public and economic lives. last year, in the framework of the europe 2020 strategy for growth, the commission addressed recommendations to 13 member states aimed at promoting female employment. the commission recommended that these member states invest in childcare facilities and remove fiscal disincentives for second earners. in addition, the eu provides significant co-funding possibilities in order to help member states to promote gender equality, notably through the european structural and investment funds. perhaps the most manifest form of gender inequality – and here i agree absolutely with madam zuber – is the gender pay gap, which has barely decreased in recent years. women earn on average 16.4[nbsp ]% less than men, according to the latest figures. now this, we all know, has multiple causes: women are working in undervalued and underpaid sectors and occupations; women are under-represented in senior and leadership positions; and they unequally share the burden of family and domestic responsibilities. other reasons, of course, are old societal patterns which say that women are not considered breadwinners by their employers, or simply the lack of information available to female employees. this is unacceptable, and we have to act. the commission has been consistently striving for equal pay to become a reality – be it by awareness-raising activities or by monitoring the application and enforcement of legislation on equal pay by the member states. last week, the commission provided member states with a toolbox of concrete measures to tackle pay discrimination and the persisting gender pay gap in the form of a non-binding legal act. we adopted a recommendation on strengthening the principle of equal pay between men and women through increased transparency. the first of its kind at eu level, this recommendation is a breakthrough, because more wage transparency could create further pressure for pay equality. the knowledge of different pay levels within a company or an industry is a powerful driver of change, and that knowledge is all too often missing today. this toolbox of measures builds on current best practices in the member states and will assist social partners and national authorities to take concrete steps towards reducing the gender pay gap. we should definitely continue to emphasise the economic reasoning against the gender pay gap and convince the overwhelmingly masculine business community that equality pays off. women are still facing barriers to advancement into senior management positions. today, they account for an average of 18[nbsp ]% of the members of boards of directors in the largest publicly-listed companies. this is up from 12[nbsp ]% three years earlier. we have witnessed a real talent hunt in recent years, as companies started to hire more women for top senior positions in 2010, when the commission first announced that it would consider targeted initiatives to improve gender diversity in companies. however, recent progress has not been evenly spread across the eu. most of the significant improvements took place in countries which have taken or have considered taking legislative action. as a consequence, the commission adopted the proposed directive for women on boards – you all know this directive – and i am very grateful for parliament’s support, as expressed in your first reading position. i really hope that the current blocking minority in the council can be overcome. the commission will continue to work constructively with co-legislators with a view to the speedy adoption of this landmark proposal. madam president, last week the fundamental rights agency released the first ever european survey on violence against women in order to help us to understand the extent of the problem. you all know that the figures are alarming. you have called on the commission to oppose violence against women, and we have responded. together, we have put in place a comprehensive legal framework at european level to protect women against all forms of violence. this framework includes the directive on trafficking in human beings, the directive against the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, the directive on the european protection order applicable in criminal matters, the regulation setting the european protection order covering the civil matters and, last but not least, the directive on the rights of crime victims, stressing the need for specific and appropriate protection for victims of gender-based violence. the european commission also adopted a comprehensive policy package against female genital mutilation in november[nbsp ]2013. it co-funded, in this context, 14 national governments’ campaigns against gender-based violence, as well as projects led by non-governmental organisations. madam president, honourable members, we all know that it is only by uniting forces and by everybody taking their responsibility – at european level, at national level, at local level and at the level of the ngos – that we can change things. we have to put our finger on the problem; we have to offer solutions to the problem. this we have done together in recent years, and i thank parliament for its very constructive and forward-looking actions. i also thank it for having really advanced the cause of women over the last few years.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, madam commissioner, let's face it: while progress has been made on gender equality in europe, the figures for 2012 show that the task is still enormous. there are certainly nuances, for example, in terms of employment and absolute figures, women were initially less affected by the crisis than men, since it was mainly male sectors of activity that were hit - which demonstrates, however, the structural inequality of the labour market. however, in terms of the quality of women's employment, wages, career prospects, equal opportunities in education, the fight against gender stereotypes, in relation to domestic violence, among others, we still come back every year to the idea that we must fight every day for all women, whatever they are. i am referring to the fact that we are faced with a fundamental question of law which cannot be subject to political or ideological recovery. unfortunately, as a fictitious rapporteur, i regret that the report which will be put to the vote tomorrow is read mainly through the prism of work, the crisis and the budgetary austerity measures which, according to the rapporteur, would affect almost only public services. i think that all the nuances of our 28 member states are missing. what about inconsistencies, repetitions, generalizations, and simplistic deductions? i take for example recital y, which i think is very illustrative. i will not go into more detail. that is why we decided to table a replacement resolution in the epp, which seems to us to be balanced and does not exclude any questions. let us be clear: we are in favour of equality between men and women, but partisan analyses and solutions at the level of the union are neither realistic nor applicable. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". i would like to say to you, madam president, that it is not here in the european parliament that we have to decide on the appropriations to be allocated at national level for these considerations. you keep invoking subsidiarity, but you do not understand what it means. we always end up with text that is completely all-inclusive. in this case, it is again a text in which european and national competences are mixed. i will not give you my personal opinion on this subject, but i will simply say that as a member of the european parliament i am thinking of what we must be able to continue to promote here and not in our 28 countries, which are very different. so when i see considerations like the consideration y [nbsp] and i ask you to go and re-read it, it makes me angry.
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, seeds are at the beginning of our food chain and the commission is now proposing to incorporate twelve existing directives into one regulation, while the seed market is already largely and increasingly controlled by a handful of multinational agri-food companies. and that's not a good thing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the legislation proposed by the european commission will only worsen the existing situation. this proposal is facing opposition, both political and social. an even more concentrated market limits farmers' choice of other seed varieties. a less diverse supply of seeds will also provide less protection against disease and climate change. commissioner, draw your conclusions. the european parliament does not want to know about your proposals. so after the rejection in the plenary vote, withdraw your proposal tomorrow afternoon. after the elections, bring forward a new proposal, a serious proposal, new arrangements, better agreements. make a proposal that celebrates the diversity of the member states. make a proposal that will prevent mergers in the sector. provide a proposal that respects the diversity of the seed supply. the commission has already proposed a proposal to encourage and facilitate the biodiversity and genetic diversity of the seed supply. i would like to see a proposal which respects the autonomy of farmers.
mr president, protecting biodiversity, protecting small businesses in the sector, protecting old seeds: like many others here, i tabled many amendments to the text presented. we have asked that openly pollinated varieties in the public domain be excluded from the scope of the legislation as it is obvious that it is not suitable for them. registration is costly for both the administration and operators and represents a disproportionate burden in view of the challenges associated with public domain varieties, which are of interest to a limited public. we have also proposed that varieties intended exclusively for amateur gardeners should be excluded from the scope of the legislation. i repeat, the protection of biodiversity, small businesses in the sector and ancient seeds requires effective legislation which respects and protects these values. so send the text back to committee so that it can be reworked on these essential points and then put forward again to this parliament in a calm manner. as far as i'm concerned, i'm prepared for it.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the members who have supported me in this report. i am thinking of the fictitious rapporteur, mrs gáll-pelcz, mr donskis, mr demesmaeker, mr tannock and mrs vergiat, who have made a major contribution to the report as a whole, and also, behind them, all the officials in the groups. this report on torture, however difficult and sensitive the subject, is finally very consensual. i would like to make it clear that this is not a criticism, if any, of the way the european union is approaching this issue. i think that the european union has come a long way in this area, whether by funding ngos or by drawing up basic texts. i am thinking in particular of three texts, three instruments which are essential today: the european action plan on human rights and democracy, the guidelines for the european union's policy towards third countries, which deal with torture, and council regulation (ec) no 1236/2005, which has been revised. despite these three texts, what is the problem? what is it that keeps torture spreading around the world, including, i'll come back to it, against children? this is probably because these texts, while essential, have not brought us much progress in the areas of management, implementation, monitoring or comparative analysis. we haven't made much progress, because torture is still part of what i'll call "silent diplomacy". we know that it exists, because, of course, we read the ngo reports. it is always a little unpleasant to discuss this with the countries concerned. i would say that the practical and the 'implementation' part of these texts are not sufficiently taken into account. so rather than inventing new things, i think the report, for the most part at least, is aimed at making these instruments much more operational and much more efficient. i come to the topics which have been favourite topics or, at any rate, which i have studied more acutely. one of them is very painful: it is the theme of child torture. you know, mr president, that today, all over the world, children are still being tortured in an intolerable way, i dare say more and more. we have already had a great deal of discussion in this chamber about child soldiers, child witches, the rape of very young girls, the rape of children, etc., children in detention centres, migrant children and the treatment they receive. these are aspects which we are well aware of, which we have little control over, which we are unable to eradicate and which are intolerable, at least for us as european citizens. this problem of torture is mentioned in the report. i didn't want to stigmatize anyone, because that would have divided us, but i would still like to say how important this is as, for example, in june 2013, the un committee on the rights of the child released a damning report on the torture of palestinian children in israeli prisons. i refer you back to that report, i have nothing more to say. unicef also mentioned it. i would also like to mention the cases of child torture perpetrated by both the syrian army and the syrian opposition. these are absolutely unsustainable facts. i myself could not read the reports on this. i would also like to say that there is something that goes beyond the framework of the convention against torture by state entities and is a phenomenon of globalization: i mean the use of the internet for child pornography and for the harassment of children. there is an association [nbsp]inhope[nbsp] that is working on this with the financial support of the european union. we must find ways of monitoring these situations closely, of checking them and of taking action to counter them, because they are unsustainable for our european conscience. for the rest, i'll send you back to the report. sorry i was a little long.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. like tax evasion and tax avoidance, money laundering has taken on colossal proportions and requires an urgent, crossborder and european approach. through fraud, corruption, drug trafficking and other serious crimes, it appears that criminals of all kinds are making vast amounts of money by laundering through legal channels such as banks and insurance companies. this in itself creates a huge reputational damage for the financial sector, but above all it also leads to huge costs for society. they run into the hundreds of billions of euros a year. and i am not even going to talk about the many victims of these criminal activities. to address that, we need to find a systematic answer to a very simple question: who exactly are they doing business with? what is the identity of the persons who are really behind the company and who benefit from these transactions? hence the importance of a mandatory central public register and of course also the importance of good cooperation between the member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the taxpayer is able to use the tax base to pay for his or her own tax. a few months before the elections, at a time when youth unemployment is at its peak in europe and there are negative reports on poverty rates, a decisive approach to white-collar crime is a strong signal that the union is committed to its approach. we can make progress in that respect.
rapporteur. - madam president, i think the house has broad support. given the fact that we are approaching the end of this legislature, i would like to ask for postponement on the vote on the legislative resolution under rule 57(2) to enable the first reading agreement.
in writing. i welcome the commission's intention to approximate the existing provisions on comitology for delegated and implementing acts. however, it is of the opinion that the powers delegated to the commission need to be rationalised in order to preserve the prerogatives of parliament. i also believe that by limiting this proposal to an alignment exercise, the commission is missing the opportunity to optimise and strengthen the collection of statistics relating to inland waterway transport.
in writing. i support the overall objective of the proposed regulation, which is to strengthen the economic governance of the union by establishing a strengthened system of statistical control of data relevant for the purposes of the mff. i recognise the need for clear requirements and procedures to ensure the optimum quality of statistics, with the aim of facilitating the early detection and monitoring of macroeconomic imbalances. however, your rapporteur believes that the monitoring of the statistical quality of the data relevant for the purposes of the mdp and of the reference statistical information could be better aligned with the framework defined in the macroeconomic imbalances procedure and with the legislation, practices and governance structures in place in the field of european statistics.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the renewal of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the united states of america.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report on access to genetic resources (nagoya protocol). as we know, biodiversity is an essential data for scientific research, technological applications, health products, food and cosmetics. unfortunately, for several decades now, this biodiversity has been seriously degraded. the report therefore proposes a series of measures to safeguard these resources, both biological and cultural: ensuring the integrity of the chain of use so that contracts concluded upstream of the exploitation of resources are clearly respected, banning 'biopiracy' in europe - in other words, the prohibition of the illegal acquisition and use of genetic resources - or, in order to safeguard global biodiversity, the creation of a fund on benefit-sharing. these measures are in the right direction and i have therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague sandrine bélier on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the nagoya protocol on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from their utilization relating to the convention on biological diversity.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text by my distinguished colleague, mr frederic daerden. the spanish authorities state that 11,5% of all spanish enterprises are established in the comunidad valenciana, the nuts ii region concerned by the redundancies. the manufacturing sector accounts for 26% of jobs in this region, the services sector for 60%, the construction sector for 10%, and the primary sector for 4%. the economic model of the comunidad valenciana is characterised by a high proportion of small and medium-sized enterprises, mainly specialised in the manufacture of furniture, footwear, textiles, ceramics and toys. these industries are concentrated around a small number of municipalities. it is argued that the redundancies in the textile sector in the comunidad valenciana will only worsen the unemployment situation, since the region - in particular alicante, a nuts iii region - is highly dependent on this sector. of all the workers in the manufacturing industry in alicante, 8.24% are employed in the textile sector.
in writing. if a text is bad, it should be rejected. this is the best explanation for the massive vote this afternoon in the european parliament against the commission's proposal for a regulation on seeds. the vote was not surprising, given the number of critics, and it confirmed the opposite views already expressed by the parliament's agriculture and environment committees. it is no coincidence that a large number of citizens who are gardeners have written to me expressing their concern about a text which would significantly limit their access to a wide variety of seeds. the european commission certainly has better things to do than to submit legislation that citizens do not want because it is unnecessary and prescriptive. like the rapporteur, paolo silvestris, i am critical of a text which merges twelve directives into one regulation, which has not been the subject of any impact study on smes in the agricultural sector, and above all whose philosophy is wrong: eu legislation on agricultural seeds must promote the maintenance of biodiversity in agriculture and horticulture, and not the other way around! the commission has every interest in not persisting in its error and must withdraw its proposal!
in writing. we voted to reject the seeds dossier and sent the text back to the european commission for re-writing. the draft directive was a major threat to ancient seeds, thus putting european biodiversity at great risk, and it was a game played by a few large groups to the detriment of small farmers. it is not the lobbies of the big multinationals that decide the agenda. the big seed companies in the global marketplace are lobbying government officials and lawmakers to keep this niche market as small as possible and not to hinder their profits. these lobbies wanted the reform to be passed in force to avoid democratic debate because the original version of the text is clearly in their favour, serves the interests of small farmers and harms the maintenance of biodiversity!
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council adapting, with effect from 1[nbsp ]july 2011, the remuneration and pensions of officials and other servants of the european union and the correction coefficients applied thereto.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council adapting, with effect from 1[nbsp ]july 2012, the remuneration and pensions of officials and other servants of the european union and the correction coefficients applied thereto.
in writing. a stabilisation and association agreement (saa) between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part, was signed in luxembourg on 29[nbsp ]april[nbsp]2008. it entered into force on 1 september 2013. in order to ensure the effective application of the saa, the commission has proposed a regulation on certain procedures for the application of its trade provisions. this approach has been used in the past for other saa and interim agreements with the western balkan countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directives [nbsp ]2003/71/ec and 2009/138/ec as regards the competences of the european securities and markets authority and the european insurance and occupational pensions authority.
in writing. the eu regulatory framework needs to evolve and adapt to these changes, which call for greater concern for the effectiveness of anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing arrangements, greater clarity and coherence in member states' regulations, and an extension of the scope of legislation to new threats and vulnerabilities. in the political and economic context of the crisis, it is all the more imperative to ensure that criminal activities do not exacerbate the problems that are arising and do not pose an additional threat to the implementation of genuine european solidarity and to the efforts to achieve a lasting and complete recovery.
in writing. - with the extension of the current anti-money laundering rules that we have approved today, we are ensuring that online gambling companies will also have to take measures in the future to prevent money laundering. the new rules require online gambling companies to conduct a customer survey whenever winnings exceed eur 2 000. this will increase transparency about gamblers who win remarkably large sums. a risk analysis should also be carried out on which gambling services are most vulnerable to money laundering. the new rules are therefore a good thing for sport, as sports betting is now also targeted by the anti-money laundering rules. this is how we prevent black money from being laundered through bribe-taking and illegal gambling. the new rules require gambling companies to alert the anti-money laundering unit if there is any suspicion that the money wagered is from a criminal source. in this way, the sports world becomes less vulnerable to the money laundering of criminals who bet on sports events.
in writing. the new directive aims to improve the current framework to prevent the financial system from being used to convert the proceeds of criminal activities into lawful funds. the commission proposal was drawn up following the commission's review of the implementation of the current directive and to reflect changes to the non-binding recommendations made by the financial action task force (fatf). the international monetary fund estimates that money laundering is widespread, amounting to almost 5% of world gdp. such criminal activities undermine the integrity of the financial sector, cause a loss of revenue for governments, distort competition, hinder the proper functioning of markets and undermine development.
in writing. i draw attention to the fact that the union will significantly reduce its investments in the balkans, the eastern partnership countries and north africa. the decline in investment is the result of long-term cuts in the union budget, which will affect all union policies. in the next budget period, the financial constraints will include a reduction in the eib's annual external lending budget from an average of eur 4.2 billion to eur 3.6 billion per year, affecting all the institution's activities.
in writing. i consider it essential that users take the necessary steps to obtain an access and benefit-sharing contract in the event of reuse of any genetic resource. i do, however, recognize the impossibility of tracing the origin of certain genetic resources, such as those acquired outside national jurisdictions and those known as 'historical'. in order to respond to this situation, i propose the creation of a european union benefit-sharing fund to be funded by the users of genetic resources with a view to preserving global biodiversity. the fund may eventually contribute to a global multilateral benefit-sharing mechanism as set out in article 10 of the nagoya protocol.
in writing. - with this agreement on car inspection, we have also given the green light to tackle fraud with odometers within the eu. as more and more second-hand cars are sold across borders, a european approach is needed. studies show that odometer fraud is more common when vehicles are sold abroad. the fact that there is no exchange of information between member states makes it very difficult to trace the history of a car. a european information exchange system should better protect consumers and increase road safety. the agreement obliges all member states to record mileage at car inspections so that this information can be exchanged within a new european information exchange system. in belgium, all mileage is tracked and checked via the car pass system. we hope that now we can quickly work on linking the different national information systems to avoid fraud with odometers, also across borders.
in writing. - the main vehicle inspections are among the minimum requirements for improving road safety. it is particularly important to me that existing stricter rules in the member states, such as the control system in belgium, should be maintained. the testing of motorcycles over 125ccm will be carried out from 2022 in the 12 countries where these checks are not currently carried out. however, member states are free to provide statistical evidence that they have introduced other measures to improve road safety for motorcycles. finally, i welcome the possible introduction of a 'car pass' which will prevent the manipulation of mileage.
in writing. the increased mobility of people within the european union requires more harmonised legislation on technical controls. it is necessary not only to improve road safety but also to give citizens valid information about vehicles purchased in another member state. as technology evolves, the legislation should be adjusted to include vehicles which, until now, were not covered by its scope.
in writing. this proposal, as part of the 'technical inspection' package, aims to promote and enforce the rules on the technical inspection of motor vehicles in order to enhance road safety and environmental protection. the aim of the directive is to improve the application of the rules on roadworthiness and roadworthiness tests, particularly where the technical condition of a vehicle poses a direct and immediate danger to road safety, by introducing measures such as temporary suspension or permanent cancellation of the vehicle's registration.
in writing. in the context of technical and roadworthiness tests, a large amount of data relating to the vehicle and its performance is collected. these data can be used by the various authorities to monitor the detection of defects and to organise targeted controls, but also to define more appropriate policies. similarly, road and technical inspections would be more effective if they had access to complete information on the vehicle's history and technical characteristics.
in writing. i think that the task of collecting accident data should not be taken away from eurostat. instead, cooperation with the european railway agency should be established and ensured in the area of data collection. in addition, a requirement concerning the collection of incident data should be added, as these contribute to improving the level of railway safety.
in writing. the collin-langen report supported the commission's proposal, while introducing some key issues related to the need for a test/pilot project phase, which would have delayed the actual entry into force of the provision, and the possibility of having additional time for the implementation of e-invoicing for local contracting authorities. the s&d amendments tabled by mr tarabella aimed to ensure the interoperability and accessibility of the european standard which would have included both the semantics (form and content of the invoice) and the syntax (interoperable/readable element) of the e-invoice, in order to reduce costs for authorities and the economic operator wishing to participate in a procurement procedure, and, at the same time, to extend the scope of concession procedures.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague mr de castro on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1166/2008 on farm structure surveys and the survey on agricultural production methods, as regards the financial framework for the period 2014-2018.
in writing. the proposal aims to replace council regulation (ec) no 1216/2009 of 30 november 2009 laying down the trade arrangements applicable to certain goods resulting from the processing of agricultural products. its main objective is to bring it into line with the legal obligation to differentiate between the delegated powers and the implementing powers of the commission, introduced by articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. a key pillar of the european economy, the european investment bank (eib) supports growth and creates jobs. it is a key instrument for achieving the europe 2020 objectives, such as infrastructure development to foster growth, cutting-edge innovation and competitiveness. each year, the european parliament examines the eib's banking activities and its financial, statistical and business reports. this report focuses on the eib's governance, compliance, supervisory framework, support for the strengthening of small businesses, contribution to the union's external policies and collaboration with other international financial institutions, addressing issues of transparency and non-cooperative jurisdictions.
in writing. regarding this report on gender equality in the union in 2012, it is first of all regrettable that the rapporteur did not want to cooperate more proactively with the other political groups, in particular with the epp. i personally voted in favour of the epp motion for a resolution, which was objective, balanced and not dogmatic, and which looked at equality between men and women in all its many facets and not just through the prism of the economic and employment crisis, as the rapporteur's draft report did. i therefore regret that the rapporteur's obstinacy in not wanting to negotiate a more balanced text has led to the outright rejection of the report. the epp's proposal was a very credible alternative and its rejection by the majority of members of parliament is, in the end, quite damaging.
in writing. the creation of geographical areas with cheap labour enables large companies to accumulate wealth. public services are being dismantled in a logic of private profitability through privatization. this is the solution that the big economic and financial groups have adopted to solve their problems of accumulating wealth. the union and the various governments have tried to do the same. if today's crisis is described as economic and financial, it is nevertheless a crisis of democracy and equality between women and men, a crisis of the centuries-old civilizational achievements for which many generations of women have fought.
in writing. we call for the establishment of an economic analysis unit to carry out fully reasoned cost-benefit analyses of ntrs, nts and proposed guidelines, and to contribute to the opinions delivered to the commission, parliament and council in the preparation of new legislation and the revision of existing legislation.
in writing. transparency is essential for a democratic political union of citizens, in which citizens can fully participate in the democratic process. secrecy and discretion belong to an era when europe was in the hands of diplomats and officials. transparent administration is in the interests of citizens, the fight against corruption and the legitimacy of the political system and legislation of the european union. the european union must improve the transparency of its administration and its legislative process. citizens are demanding more transparency. thanks to new technologies, many interesting new initiatives are being launched to provide an overview of the activities of the european institutions. however, the public too often has to rely on leaks and whistleblowers to learn about the failings of institutions. this lack of transparency seriously undermines citizens' trust in the european union.
in writing. the petition is a valuable tool of direct democracy which allows citizens to make their voices heard by elected representatives. i am one of the members who believe that the petition can bring europe closer to its citizens. beyond the european citizens' initiative (million signatures required) provided for by the lisbon treaty, other less ambitious but equally effective participatory mechanisms exist. i am thinking of the referral to the parliamentary committee on petitions, whose activity is constantly increasing, as the activity report for 2013 also states: 3[nbsp ]000[nbsp ]petitions out of the 10[nbsp ]000 registered since 2009, 45[nbsp ]% more than in 2012. it must be said that the issues of concern have multiplied. while the environment is still high on the list, other equally serious issues have become priorities, such as the consequences of the crisis and the rights of the child. the fact that the committee on petitions receives more and more petitions related to family rights, especially from children of divorced or separated parents, is a cause for concern! the reason, if any, is to bring the european union closer to the people who are subject to the law and to ensure that europe adopts common rules in family law.
in writing. as this report shows, the implementation of the charter of fundamental rights has proved confusing and, to some extent, disappointing for many citizens. article 51 defines the scope of the charter as corresponding to the competences of the union. the commission has chosen a very restricted interpretation of that article, which is disputed. the faith of many citizens in the union was affected throughout the legislature by the adverse consequences of the economic and financial crisis, which undermined confidence in the single currency and in the banking system in general, and this at international level. it is easy to understand why this difficult situation for the vast majority of the union's citizens has led to an influx of petitions.
in writing. i voted against this text which apologises for gmos and denigrates the social clauses for workers!
in writing. i, like ms[nbsp]de[nbsp]keyser, denounce the persistence of torture and other forms of ill-treatment worldwide and once again strongly condemn such acts, which are and must remain prohibited at all times and in all places, and which are therefore never justified. i note that the eu guidelines on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment in relation to third countries are not sufficiently implemented, despite the eu's commitment to make the fight against torture a priority. i urge the eeas and the member states to give new impetus to the implementation of these guidelines, including by defining priorities, good practices and public diplomacy activities, consulting relevant stakeholders, including civil society organisations, and assessing the implementation of the measures against torture provided for in the union action plan on human rights and democracy. i would stress in this connection the full and timely implementation of the three actions on the eradication of torture contained in the eu action plan for the eradication of torture.
in writing. we call on the saudi authorities to allow human rights organisations to work by facilitating the process of registering their licence. i regret that human rights activists are harassed and detained without being charged!
the agenda calls for the joint debate on:- the report by jan philipp albrecht, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data (general data protection regulation) (com2012) 0011 - c7-0025/2012 - 2012/011 (cod)) (a7-0402/2013), and - the report by dimitrios droutsas, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the authorities responsible for the prevention of, and investigation of, criminal offences relating to the processing of personal data and on the execution of criminal penalties for, or the free movement of such data (com2012) 0010 - c7-0024/2012 (cod)) (com (2012) 00102) and (a7-0403/2013).
madam president, commissioner, the citizen will finally be in control of his personal data. it sounds like a dream that should have always been a reality. we can only be pleased that genuine firewalls are being put in place to protect the rights of the european citizen. of course there are a few hiccups. firstly, some colleagues, who are also here in this house, have made it impossible to hear edward snowden, which would have been very useful. second, despite the obvious intrusions into our privacy by the nsa -- this will be the next debate -- some in this room, often the same people i just mentioned, want to throw in the towel and still champion the interests of big multinationals over the interests of citizens. finally, i regret that pseudonymisation is not considered to be personal data and does not fall within the scope of the text to be voted on tomorrow. this morning in belgium, it was concluded that the number of complaints about data breaches had doubled in one year. between the nsa getting their hands on the earpiece to spy on us and the big american multinationals confusing personal data with marketing data, it's time for citizens to take back what's theirs.
the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 12 march 2014 at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by mr claude moraes, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the nsa surveillance programme, the surveillance agencies in various member states and the impact on the fundamental rights of european citizens and on transatlantic cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs (2013/2188(ini) (a7-0139/2014).
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). it is best to go back to the substance, to the findings of the moraes report - an excellent report. it is clear that the protection of the privacy of european citizens is totally lost today. the contradiction, or rather the balance, between these two fundamental rights, the safety of citizens on the one hand and privacy on the other, has been completely misguided. after the terrorist attacks in the united states, the pendulum has been swinging in the wrong direction. of course we can't leave it like that. the intelligence services, particularly in the united states, are now effectively aware of every detail of the lives of all citizens, including all citizens in this house, through a system of mass surveillance. and big american internet companies, also in europe, are eager to join in. that is fundamentally contrary - and this has been said many times here tonight - to the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. that's why it's time to act. it is therefore time, ladies and gentlemen, to suspend the safe harbour agreement and to make it clear that we expect the european commission, and you, commissioner, to follow the majority of parliament in this. if we don't stop the clock today, and if we don't address this fundamental privacy issue at its root today, we will soon indeed wake up in that landscape, in george orwell's "1984". then that will become a reality. if our american friends want that, that is their right, but it is not the direction we want to take europe.
mr president, i thank you for dissuading me from using my blue card to ask a question to mr borghezio. indeed, his insignificant intervention merited only silence and indifference. i would therefore like to stress that the european parliament has done a real thorough job of finding out the truth about the prism scandal. we must condemn the systematic and indiscriminate collection on a large scale of personal data, sometimes of an intimate nature, from innocent people. this is totally unacceptable. we do not share the us view of what personal data is: for them it is data that can be used for marketing, and for us it is about privacy, about our individual freedoms. this should not prevent us from working with them, but under certain conditions. we must only accept the free trade agreement between the european union and the united states if the question of data transfer is explicitly excluded. finally, until trust is restored, the safe harbour agreement, which allows us companies to transfer the personal data of european citizens, must be suspended. voting for this report, and congratulating the rapporteur, claude moraes, is voting for respect for the individual freedom that all our citizens deserve.
in writing. we are against the half-hearted european policy towards turkey. on the one hand, the eu wants to provide ankara with a framework to fulfil its own european commitments. on the other hand, there is growing criticism from europe of the lack of a credible rule of law. what i do not understand is the logic of hoping to resolve this by intensifying the accession talks with turkey, as was done last year with the regional policy chapter. turkey has undoubtedly also seen positive developments recently, such as the september democratization package, the establishment of a national institute of human rights, and the admission of kurdish in private schools. but the polarization policy of the present government remains an obstacle to fundamental democratic reforms. the attempts to control the judiciary and the police, and the new internet law that introduces excessive surveillance of internet access, have no place in a country that should reflect european values. the commission's mandate to continue the accession negotiations with turkey is therefore currently exhausted. if the eu does not want to completely lose its credibility in the turkish dossier, it is best to admit it outright.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking both rapporteurs, mr sassoli and mr marinescu, and also the shadow rapporteurs concerned, for the excellent work and the constructive atmosphere in which the debates and votes took place. the aim of achieving a single european airspace is of course an old dream of this parliament and we have already made a lot of progress in the past. but there is also a dire need to drastically improve the efficiency of the aviation sector and thus eliminate the existing waste. that's good for industry, which can cut costs. this is good for passengers who may face fewer delays and also lower prices. and of course it's also good for the environment because of lower co2 emissions and lower fuel consumption. the proposals on the table are another step in the direction we want. we are clarifying the responsibilities of the different actors, streamlining structures and making them more transparent, and sharpening performance targets. but as previous speakers have said, we cannot follow the commission in its idea of compulsory separation of the supporting services such as meteorological and aeronautical services. that's not the real problem. the text of tran on this subject is acceptable, but we have made proposals to clarify it further, and these are to be put to the vote tomorrow. of course, the work is not yet finished. much depends on the results on the ground and the application by the member states. we have seen in the past with the single european sky and single european sky ii that there is often a bottleneck. i would therefore call on the commission to concentrate on solving the practical problems that remain. in particular: how are they going to divide the revenue between those air traffic controllers? because when you work more efficiently, there are losers. and they need to be convinced to go through with it. how can we reassure the staff and possibly reach a european status and also give those in the sector a good future?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, this is in fact the last meeting of the european council before the elections, and i think it is a good moment to make an assessment of the last five years – of what has been done, what has not been done, and what the results of our policies have been. first of all let me say that over the last five years we had a very dramatic period, mr[nbsp ]barroso. we had the fallout from the financial crisis of 2008. we had the sovereign debt crisis that started in greece in december 2009. we had the arab spring in our neighbourhood. with our american friends we had the spying affair that is still going on and in connection with which we have to make new legislation as fast as possible. and now we have the deep crisis in the crimea, which reminds us of all the old tensions of the cold war. so the last five years has been a turbulent period. i think we also have to be honest about the fact that a number of things have been done. since the financial crisis in 2008, a huge new financial regulation based on initiatives by commissioner barnier has been put forward. we now have directives on bank recovery and resolution. we have a directive on the deposit guarantee schemes. we have a directive on markets in financial instruments. we have a directive on market abuse. we have a regulation on credit rating agencies and one on capital requirements. so a lot has been done on financial regulation. thanks to our colleague commissioner rehn, a lot has also been done on the rules of the growth and stability pact. and finally the rules are being applied; that was not always the case in the past. the last element is that we also have positive action by the european central bank. let us be honest, it is thanks to mr draghi’s omt that the tensions in the markets have fallen; unfortunately the tensions and the pressures on politicians to make the necessary reforms have also fallen. having said that, i think it is also necessary to tell the people – the citizens of europe – the truth. the crisis is not over. just because the end of the recession is here, this does not mean that we now have entered a period of growth – we have entered into a period of what we can more or less call economic stagnation, a goal between 0[nbsp ]% and 2[nbsp ]%. that is growth, but not enough to lower the enormous unemployment figures that we are experiencing in europe. and why? because i think we lack two elements. it was interesting that mr swoboda made a comparison between the us and the european result. why the difference? because, first of all, they have solved their banking problem and we are still in the middle of a banking crisis. we have still not created a system that is capable of transferring the money from the banks to the real economy: that is the problem. a small or medium-sized company in greece, for example, is still faced with interest rates of 7[nbsp ]%, 8[nbsp ]%, 9[nbsp ]% or 10[nbsp ]% for making investments, and the same is true for a small company in italy. we will not recover if we do not first of all create a banking union, and i am doubtful about the outcome of the trilogue today when i see what the council and ecofin decided yesterday – if they decided anything, because that is not very clear. the second thing we need is a european convergence policy. we need a new economic strategy. the lisbon agenda failed, the 2020 agenda failed. why? because it was not binding enough. if you have one currency you also need more convergence and more binding economic strategies between the different parts of your union. my last point – on a totally different matter – is that i think over the last five years we have seen a lack of unity in our foreign policy, and we are seeing it today again in the crisis in ukraine and the crimea. an outrageous lack of courage on the part of the european union, because it is our neighbourhood: we are talking about ukraine, which is in fact a european country. when you go to odessa or kiev you see that you are in the middle of europe – and what are we doing? what is our attitude to the tragedy that is happening in the crimea? there is no serious strategy at all, and we need one. in my opinion we need one based on a number of elements. first of all, a real common energy policy and, as graham watson indicated, we need binding targets. it is the only way to have a real common energy policy. we also need to launch real sanctions against russia, against the dirty money coming from russia and which is invested in german industry, in the city of london, in real estate in france. we need real sanctions, otherwise the case is over. crimea becomes a new frozen conflict for years and for decades. so let us be clear: we are dealing with a russian leadership that has turned its back on the consensus following the cold war. it is no longer the russian leadership of 1990 and the years after. it is a russian leadership which is no longer prepared to accept the integrity of its former parts. it started, as we know, in 2008 in georgia and it is continuing now in the crimea, and the only way to stop it is by being bold, by being courageous in the european union and doing what is necessary.
in writing. the union's energy policy is only relevant in the context of a transversal industrial policy conducive to economic recovery. the main lines of this european industrial policy, which should be pursued at all levels of government, would be: an aggressive trade policy; the adjustment of the rules on state aid and their notification thresholds; massive investment in r&d and training, which is difficult to reconcile with the current austerity imposed on the european and national budgets; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this reduction is through environmental efforts, such as increasing the share of renewable energy or our energy efficiency. yes, europe must set the example in this respect worldwide, with binding standards and strengthened objectives, but accompanied by a fair trade policy which is demanding in environmental and social matters. otherwise, it cannot fight alone, without first having implemented a binding international agreement. recent layoffs in the steel, automotive, glass and high-tech industries support my point. in short, an energy and environmental ambition in the service of reindustrialisation.
the european commission states that the european economy is recovering and that the economic outlook is favourable. although i welcome this statement, i cannot help but be critical of it. the growth in question is very minimal: 0,1% in the euro area between january 2013 and january 2014. no real progress was made in the area of unemployment: in both january 2013 and january 2014, it was 12% in the euro area. this result is very surprising when you compare it with the efforts made in many member states. i would also like to stress once again that the social cost of the crisis measures imposed by the troika is enormous. the damage caused by the breakdown of the social system will be felt for years to come. it is therefore essential that the social dimension of emu be developed further. it should be clear by now that economic policy must be balanced with social policy. this is the only way to achieve the social revival of europe. i therefore ask the council to pay sufficient attention to the social dimension at its meeting on 21 and 22 march. because we need a different policy.
the crisis, ladies and gentlemen, shows that there is a need to upgrade european foreign policy, to upgrade security and defence policy. if we don't, we'll always be late or we'll react too weakly. putin knows that and he can go about his business. for him, a democratic revolution in ukraine is a nightmare. and so he's distracting attention from that at home by invading abroad. and unfortunately it is the citizens of ukraine who feel this. and it's going from bad to worse. in crimea journalists and activists are disappearing, citizens are being pressured in the run-up to the so-called referendum, crimean tatars are being threatened. in eastern ukraine, russian sabotage groups are at work. that is a matter of grave concern to us. we support the measures taken by the council and the commission. the best course of action we can take is to invest in the success of the ukrainian democratic revolution. the european parliament has been a key player in the consolidation of the pro-european vote. that's putin's greatest fear, and he's not going to let that happen. only then can the limited diplomatic and sanctions measures succeed.
in writing. we reaffirm that good governance, accountable and open institutions, separation of powers and respect for fundamental rights are important elements in addressing the development and security challenges in pakistan. i also believe that elected civilian governments with democratic legitimacy, decentralisation of powers to the provinces and effective local governance are the best means of containing the wave of violence and extremism, restoring state authority in the federally administered tribal areas (fata), and ensuring the sovereignty and territorial integrity of pakistan.
in writing. we recall that nato's ballistic missile defence measures are designed and implemented to defend its members against possible ballistic missile attacks. we invite the vice-president/high representative to pursue a strategic partnership with nato, taking into account the issue of ballistic missile defence, which should lead to a comprehensive coverage and protection of all eu member states, thus avoiding a situation where the security offered to them is of variable geometry.
in writing. the european fisheries sector faces several challenges: the catch sector is faced with rising fuel costs, labour shortages and quota restrictions. the processing sector suffers from constraints in the supply of raw materials and competition from imports from third countries. the aquaculture sector also faces competition from imports, low prices for certain species, strict environmental regulations and conflicts over land use. the current situation of the european fisheries sector is seriously weakening its competitive position, especially as the world market is being liberalized and as some developing countries with abundant marine resources are beginning to become the new powers in the fisheries sector. the survival of the european fisheries sector will be jeopardised if the european union liberalises trade in fishery products with developing countries wishing to export their products to the interesting european market, especially if it grants a zero duty.
in writing. food plays a fundamental role in societies. while nutrition and access to clean water remain pressing problems for many developing countries, our countries are facing other problems in this area. these are diseases and pathologies (obesity, anorexia, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, etc.) which entail significant costs for health systems, both public and private. in order to minimise these costs, this report also stresses the importance of integrating the teaching of healthy eating and nutrition into our national education programmes. in addition to promoting good practice, these programmes could also help to develop and promote our territories in order to develop tourism. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which proposes the implementation of genuine european public policies in the field of food and gastronomy.
in writing. developments in recent years have highlighted the extraordinary importance of food, in the broad sense, in today's society. on the one hand, in the context of the millennium development goals, major efforts are needed to eradicate hunger and the problems of drinking water supply in all countries still suffering from this scourge of humanity, which is absolutely unacceptable in the 21st century. on the other hand, it is surprising that in developed countries with a good economic level, due to lack of culture and/or education, diet has become a fundamental cause of diseases and pathologies that entail considerable costs for the public or private health system. in fact, poor diet is a major cause of obesity, anorexia, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and stomach problems, among others. of course, the problem is not just poor nutrition. for all these conditions, lack of physical exercise, the ingestion of harmful substances, such as drugs, excessive alcohol and tobacco, and problems with emotional balance also play a major role.
in writing. the legislation on the protection of personal data in the union was voted on wednesday. the citizen finally in control of his personal data: it sounds like a dream that should have always remained a reality. explicit consent of the internet user for the information he leaves on the web, limitation of profiling, prohibition for google, facebook or skype to transfer data to third countries without a european agreement and heavy sanctions against platforms that would violate the rules: real firewalls protecting the rights of the european citizen are put in place. twenty years ago, the internet was the exception, now it's the rule, from 16 million to 2.7 billion internet users worldwide. the network has spread and the stakes have become economic. for a long time, people thought that surfing was free, but they were paying, unknowingly, by giving up their personal data. the value of personal data is now estimated at over 300 billion euros. new legislation was needed.
in writing. the legal basis for this draft is article 133 and article 139 (2) (f) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which provide that the european parliament and the council are to establish the measures necessary for the use of the euro as the single currency, including the protection of the euro against counterfeiting. the pericles programme is being extended by means of a parallel draft regulation based on article 352 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. evaluations in 2004 and 2011 indicated that the programme had achieved its objectives and should be continued. we believe that its extension to other member states will improve it by helping to increase the effectiveness of the prevention and suppression of counterfeiting.
in writing. the european parliament could be involved and informed as to the opening and status of negotiations for the signature of such agreements. we therefore recommend that these agreements be implemented. the european union shall be represented in the joint committee for the management of the agreement only by the european commission, assisted by experts from the member states. as the institution representing european citizens and as the defender of democracy and the principles of the european union, the european parliament could be associated with the work of the joint committee. the european commission must review the composition of the joint management committees for future agreements.
in writing. the european union's relations with the republic of azerbaijan began in 1996 with the signing of the partnership and cooperation agreement (pca). later, following the 2004 and 2007 enlargements, the european union launched the european neighbourhood policy, in which the republic of azerbaijan has participated since 2004 and which aims to strengthen relations with the countries neighbouring it to the east and south, in order to promote prosperity, stability and security on the borders of the union. in 2009, the european union launched a new initiative in this direction, aimed at deepening relations with certain eastern countries: the eastern partnership. an association agreement was concluded in prague on 7 may 2009 to which the republic of azerbaijan is also a party. the aim of this partnership is to create the conditions necessary to accelerate political association and economic integration between the european union and the participating states. visa liberalisation and citizens' mobility are an integral part of this partnership.
in writing. progress in respecting international humanitarian law and international human rights law will remain a distant prospect until there is systematic and regular dialogue with non-state armed groups and the need for such dialogue is recognised. whether we seek dialogue in afghanistan, colombia, uganda, pakistan, the democratic republic of congo, somalia, sudan, the occupied palestinian territories, yemen or elsewhere, experience shows that it is possible to save lives by engaging in dialogue with an armed group to try to get it to respect international humanitarian law, in combat as well as in its general conduct, or to allow humanitarian workers to move safely, and to dissuade it from using certain types of weapons.
in writing. we have decided that the members of the parliamentary committees established under the economic partnership agreement (epa) are exclusively members of the international trade committee or the development committee in respect of the leading role of the international trade committee as the committee with substantive competence and that they are to actively coordinate their work with that of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly.
in writing. 402 meps said 'enough' to the commission, which repeatedly uses and abuses its delegated powers to substantially amend eu legislation. as a co-signer of the resolution on the definition and labelling of 'manufactured nanomaterials' in food, i am obviously pleased with the result: the resolution confirms that all authorised ingredients, including food additives, will have to be labelled. this is the consistent position of the european parliament, repeated not once but five times: the 2013 ries report on food for infants and young children; the 2011 sommer report on food information for consumers; the 2011 klass report on biocidal products; the 2009 liotard report on novel foods; the 2009 roth-behrendt report on cosmetic products. the commission must understand that labelling is not a gadget but a legal obligation to inform the consumer. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european food safety authority, the establishment of a european food safety authority and the establishment of a european food safety authority.
in writing. we object to the commission delegated regulation of 12 december 2013 amending regulation (eu) no 1169/2011 of the european parliament and of the council on food information to consumers as regards the definition of manufactured nanomaterials. i believe that the commission's delegated regulation is not compatible with the objective and content of the basic act and goes beyond the delegation of power that this act confers on the commission.
in writing. an effective data protection framework in europe can make a significant contribution to establishing a satisfactory level of data protection for each and every european citizen. the content of the commission proposal (2012/0010 (cod)) has been amended by the rapporteur in order to raise the levels of protection to the level offered by the proposed regulation and, at the same time, to clearly justify the proposed solutions.
in writing. - european airspace needs to be more efficient. the achievement of the 'single european sky' requires a major overhaul. there are 27,000 flights across europe every day. a fragmented approach threatens to saturate european airspace, with a number of negative consequences: loss of competitiveness, delays, increased fuel consumption and emissions. the current fragmentation is estimated to cost as much as 5 billion euros a year. efficiency is a must and benefits all actors involved: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on competition are applied in a fair and transparent manner. by managing our airspace wisely, we can reduce costs and emissions while leaving enough capacity. in addition, the proposed flexibility for the functional airspace blocks (fabs) is of great importance. this will allow us to achieve results more quickly, for example at benelux level, to the benefit of all the players in the sector. it's getting a lot more chances now.
written. - the existing fragmentation of european airspace is based on the fact that there are 28 different national aviation authorities with over 100 different air traffic control service providers and different systems and procedures. this fragmentation will add approximately eur 5 billion to the cost of flights and will extend the average duration of flights in european airspace by 42 km. however, due to a lack of willingness on the part of member states, cross-border functional airspace blocks have still not been implemented, despite having been decided in single european sky i in 2004 and ii in 2009. this is why this single european sky ii+ (ses[nbsp ]ii+) package was put together, which is intended, among other things, to accelerate the reform of the air safety services. but even this ses ii+ will not have much effect if the member states are not finally ready to put the promised cooperation into practice.
in writing. the single european sky (ses) initiative, launched in 2000, extended the common transport policy to air traffic management and air navigation services. since then, the european air transport market has expanded to include no less than 38 countries, as a result of the enlargement policy, combined with an active neighbourhood policy, so that it is now a global player. the fact remains that the cue did not meet expectations. the bottom-up approach of functional airspace blocks has made little progress, while the overall efficiency of the configuration and management of the european road network has improved little. the considerable reduction in shipping charges, ticket prices, average flight times or fuel consumption that the ongoing reform of the ceu was expected to bring about was not sufficient. airspace users and passengers are therefore paying for the shortcomings in the european air transport chain: wasted time, unnecessary fuel consumption and costs that could be avoided.
in writing. this is a very important regulation for two reasons: firstly, to adapt to the new rules of the single european sky; secondly, to reform governance to implement the interinstitutional agreement on european agencies concluded in july 2012. in this agreement, the commission, the european parliament and the council agreed on a common approach to european agencies. the agreement, while not legally binding, is based on a common, case-by-case approach and brings progress on a wide range of issues (establishment, choice of seat, governance, operation, use of resources and control arrangements for the agencies).
in writing. - this report is important because it adapts the package travel directive, which has been in force since 1990, to the present age of the internet. package holidays are increasingly booked via the internet. however, in addition to providing several services, such as transport and accommodation, package holidays often involve several companies, such as tour operators, cruise lines, airlines, etc. the consumer is becoming increasingly confused as to whom to turn to in the event of problems and who bears what responsibility. the aim of this report is to eliminate these ambiguities. the commission has also proposed to amend the definition of 'package travel' to include 'package travel' as defined in the package travel directive. this will enable the consumer to identify which trip he is benefiting from the information obligation, liability and insolvency protection provisions of the eu package travel directive. i also welcome the fact that consumer rights are being strengthened by the introduction of eligibility criteria which tour operators must comply with in the event of a price increase. for example, the price increase may not exceed 8% of the price of the package.
in writing. a small step forward... so much effort for so little, was it really worth it?
in writing. - due to the negative impact of greenhouse gases on the climate, this report provides for a steady reduction of certain fluorinated greenhouse gases. while i believe that the exit targets should have allowed for an even smoother transition, while maintaining the ultimate objective of continuous reduction of f-gases, i can nevertheless support the final result. the approach adopted is one that protects the climate but also gives the industries affected, such as heat pump and refrigeration manufacturers, enough time to replace the f-gases with safe alternatives. i also welcome not only the fact that the pre-emption ban has been lifted but, above all, that a traceability system has been introduced and that a quota allocation has been suggested. i consider this to be particularly important in order to prevent distortions of competition between european products and those imported into the eu from the international market.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on measures to facilitate the exercise of rights conferred on workers in the context of the free movement of workers.
in writing. it is necessary to use a model of truly sustainable development throughout the union and to fully support the commission's proposal. the proposed amendments are therefore essentially designed to strengthen this proposal by adding a few passages to make it even more effective, easier to transpose into national law and more conducive to achieving environmental protection objectives.
in writing. the commission proposal under consideration aims to align regulation (ec) no[nbsp ]471/2009 of the european parliament and of the council of 6[nbsp ]may[nbsp ]2009 on community statistics relating to external trade with third countries with the system of implementing and delegated acts established by the treaty of lisbon (articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union). to date, most legislation in the field of the common commercial policy has been brought into line with the new constitutional regime by means of the omnibus trade regulations i and ii and several subsequent individual alignments. the commission has committed itself to present the second set of alignments related to comitology [nbsp ]for legislative acts providing for the regulatory procedure with scrutiny[nbsp ] by the end of the 7th legislature. it is in this context that the commission proposes to amend regulation (ec) no[nbsp ]471/2009 on community statistics, which is the only legislative act in the field of the common commercial policy to refer to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny.
in writing. the new european copernicus 2014-2020 programme (which replaces the existing gmes) provides europe with continuous, independent and reliable access to earth observation data and information. this data will be collected by satellites and a network of sensors on land, at sea and in the air. the copernicus system will enable europe to better manage the environment and its natural resources, agriculture, various pollution, climate change, natural and man-made disasters, civil protection, security, etc. i voted in favour of copernicus, with a budget of eur 3.79 billion over 7 years, for reasons of centralised and coherent operation at european level with effects that will be felt by all citizens. the second, equally important reason for my vote in favour is the economic impact of the regional level. it is estimated that this could generate €30 billion and create 50 000 new european jobs between 2015 and 2030. i am thinking more specifically of the positive effects for smes, research centres and innovative companies in the aeronautics and space sector in the liège region.
in writing. through an appropriate data policy, copernicus can boost europe's earth observation services and user services sector, helping them to become a world leader. the policy of full, open and free access to data is an important part of the copernicus regulation, as in principle europeans should not pay twice for the same data. however, an appropriate data policy must take into account strategic and economic considerations and not harm the competitiveness of european industries. in terms of access to data, reciprocity with third countries not contributing to the programme is an important means of ensuring fair competition. exceptions to this principle should be provided for in emergency situations and situations involving civil security, or where added value is envisaged for other european policies, in particular for development aid activities. the commission's negotiation of agreements with third countries on other matters is already provided for in the regulation, which facilitates the integration of this principle.
in writing. in order to preserve the autonomy of the security accreditation board and to avoid any conflict of interest, it is essential that the security accreditation board and the agency staff under its control carry out their work in an autonomous and independent manner from the other activities of the agency, in particular from the operational activities related to the operation of the systems, and that the agency's internal staff rules ensure the autonomy and independence of the staff performing security accreditation activities from the staff performing the other activities of the agency.
in writing. the document containing proposals for the future comes at a particular time: during the economic crisis in europe, after the eastern partnership summit in vilnius, at the end of the 2009-2014 european union legislature, at a time when its role is being strengthened. that is why the european parliament should present an ambitious proposal demonstrating our openness and commitment to the development of the european project. in this respect, the crisis should not hold us back, but rather encourage us to look beyond mere political engagement and to focus our attention on the citizens of the eastern partnership countries by focusing on policies that will lead to tangible results, such as the visa-free regime. the european union must also look at the question of energy security and cooperate with the eastern partners in this area. the document in question should encourage the adoption of a bold political strategy for the development of the eastern partnership and open the way to our ideas.
in writing. the widespread surveillance programme of the nsa, the world's most powerful intelligence agency, will undoubtedly leave its mark on the relations between the european union and the us government. time will then do its work and confidence will return, for there are common interests on both sides of the atlantic. our european parliament has just this afternoon expressed itself on this sensitive issue in a balanced way. i am particularly pleased that the plenary has avoided the trap set by the radical left on the pretext of the snowden affair and has rejected all the amendments aimed at reversing agreements between the eu and the us, for example on air passenger data, or future agreements, such as the transatlantic trade and investment partnership, which would allow europe to stimulate its economy and growth, which it badly needs! europe must look ahead, move away from its defensive stance on data protection. it has every interest in developing its own technologies, such as a european cloud computing offering. the commission must remain vigilant, but this is primarily in the interests of european start-ups active on the net, in research, education or health.
in writing. the commission of inquiry has issued its findings on the prism scandal and the revelations by edward snowden, which exposed a vast espionage network. the massive and indiscriminate surveillance of european citizens by the nsa is totally unacceptable and violates the right to privacy. the time for lessons but also for punishment has come. we can only condemn the systematic and indiscriminate collection on a large scale of personal data, sometimes intimate, of innocent people. we do not share the american concept of personal data: for americans it is data that can be used for marketing; for us it is about privacy and individual freedoms.
in writing. we call on the commission to progressively extend the scope of the scoreboard to become a separate and comprehensive scoreboard assessing, through objective indicators, all areas of justice, including criminal justice, and all horizontal issues related to justice, such as the independence, efficiency and integrity of the judiciary, the careers of judges and the respect for procedural rights. we would also like the commission to make every effort to involve all the relevant actors, to draw on their experience and the lessons learned from the work already carried out by the council of europe bodies on the evaluation of the rule of law and judicial systems, and by the european union agency for fundamental rights.
in writing. convergence means the merging of audiovisual media services, linear and non-linear, which were considered to be largely separate from each other until now. the traditional media are being joined by new providers from the telecommunications industry, but also by over-the-top (ott) operators. the system of tiered regulation of the sma directive has so far ensured that a certain minimum standard is met in europe for conventional (linear) television content and for non-linear television media or online offers. the digitisation of broadcasting and media technologies, the convergence of technical transmission channels and the continuous evolution of mobile and hybrid devices mean that, on the same screen, traditional, regulated broadcasting and consultation services are suddenly faced with competition from hitherto unregulated content from the open internet. this raises questions about the protection of consumers, young people and data, but also about the preservation of diversity and the dual cultural and economic character of the media.
in writing. this report is an opportunity to emphasise the importance of organised civil society in strengthening active european citizenship. i therefore believe it is crucial to further facilitate the crossborder activities of these organisations by reducing the bureaucratic burden and providing them with sufficient funding. we reiterate our call for the establishment of a european association status, as this can facilitate the construction of projects between citizens of different member states of the european union within a transnational organisation. finally, we stress the need to create a structured framework for european civil dialogue that would give substance to participatory citizenship.
in writing. this interim report sets out the european parliament's opinion on the commission's proposed regulation on the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office. the european public prosecutor's office would be responsible for prosecuting offences affecting the financial interests of the european union, as defined in a separate proposal (directive on combating fraud affecting the financial interests of the union by means of criminal law).
in writing. - we should talk about a regression report for turkey. as in previous years, there are serious violations of freedom of expression, the rights of non-muslims and the position of women. given the corruption scandal involving the turkish government, and the accompanying purges in police and judicial circles, as well as the tightening of (internet) censorship, it is already clear that the progress report 2014 will look even worse if possible. if it is up to the eu, two new chapters in the negotiations will be opened in the particularly vain hope of putting turkey back on the right track. in doing so, the eu is not only breaking its solemn promise to european public opinion, but is also turning the world upside down and rewarding the turkish government for its undemocratic actions. if the asian country has already made a step backwards in recent years, it is a step backwards and further away from europe. if the eu does not want to lose its credibility altogether, it can only do one thing: the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information available to it.
in writing. i abstained on the annual report voted on this afternoon in the european parliament on turkey's progress. i cannot support this report because the turkish reality is much darker than that described in this watered-down text. it is time for europe to show firmness, because the evidence is clear: turkey is only moving away from the path of democracy. the country continues to lose the support of those who supported it with a view to joining the european union. no independent press, constant attacks on freedoms, corruption on a national scale. stop the hypocrisy: turkey no longer meets the copenhagen criteria. the ongoing struggle between the akp and its former rival, the hizmet religious movement of the preacher gülen, has only highlighted the massive violations of the rule of law committed by both groups to consolidate their power. you can't defend a situation that can't be defended. the union cannot sell out its fundamental values.
in writing. this report is an opportunity for me to express my deep concern about the recent developments in turkey regarding allegations of high-level corruption. i regret that the prosecutors and police officers responsible for the initial investigations have been dismissed from their posts, as this is contrary to the fundamental principle of an independent judiciary and has a profound impact on the prospects for credible investigations. i deplore the serious deterioration in trust between the government, the judiciary, the police and the media and therefore urge the turkish government to demonstrate its full commitment to democratic principles and to refrain from any further interference in the investigation and prosecution of corruption.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution, but i am concerned that the implementation by the members of the arctic council of the agreement on arctic search and rescue and the agreement on oil pollution response covers only pollution preparedness and control activities, does not regulate oil spill prevention and does not provide for any provision to ensure that operators assume full economic and environmental responsibility.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the house of europe was on fire, and i am inclined to say that it is still on fire, even if the fire seems less strong, less vigorous than it was a few years ago. so we had to intervene, and nobody ever discussed that. but can we say that the firemen were blameless? we don't think so, not in our opinion. it is true that we can say that economic and monetary union has not broken down, but it is still wobbling, and i would like to say to some colleagues that there is no monetary union that can survive without financial transfers from one part of the union to another. there is no historical or current example of monetary union without a strong federal budget, without financial transfers. you may like it or not, this is the reality, but no sustainable solution has been found so far. it is true that some member states have regained access to the financial markets, but you will allow me not to judge the quality and prosperity of a country by the judgment of the financial markets. the question is therefore: at what cost have we saved economic and monetary union so far? the price, ladies and gentlemen, is growth. the growth of debt, public and private, the growth of inequality, the growth of unemployment, the growth of emigration, the growth of poverty and insecurity, the growth of infant mortality. i would remind you that several million greeks no longer have access to health care. so if the crisis is the result of an irresponsible level of debt -- and i agree with those who say this -- it's as much irresponsible public debt in greece as it is irresponsible private debt in the financial and real estate bubble countries of spain and ireland. there is no irresponsible debt without irresponsible borrowers on one side of the table and irresponsible lenders on the other. the troika has systematically favoured the protection of creditors against debtors, so that today it is the most vulnerable people who pay the price of adjustment, as they say. all these choices were made outside any democratic control. i have heard the commission tell us that democratic control was formally in place. what i find is that when you negotiate with a gun to your head, you can't say that your choices are free. similarly, those in the eurogroup who approved the aid plans for the various countries did so without obtaining any mandate from their own parliaments. so, both in terms of the policies that are being implemented and in terms of democratic control, there is a revolution to be made in the way the european union comes to the rescue of its member states. i shall stop here, since i see that my speaking time is up.
i would like to thank the rapporteur and the rapporteur for their work. i share their analysis of the crisis, but i add that many economists had warned long before about the weaknesses in the euro system. but european political leaders did not want to hear that. consequently, they were totally unprepared when the consequences became apparent. i would remind you that in 2010 mr barroso described the euro as the protective shield against the crisis, while the faulty euro system made the effects of the financial crisis worse. the management of the problems involved constant improvisation, and the troika is an example of this. that is why there was no alternative to the troika. if the eurozone was to be held together, internal devaluation was the only recipe. but that's a painful recipe, and no one can deny that. i sympathize with greece, partly because the economic forecasts of the troika were often completely wrong. expectations were created that were not fulfilled. i do have serious doubts about some of the proposals in the report. this is what they say about a youth employment guarantee scheme. that is a good intention, but you cannot promise jobs that do not exist. whoever did that is working magic in wonderland. i am also not in favour of turning the esm into a european monetary fund on the community method. finally, there must be a link between payments and countries that pay. there is also a good proposal, such as the appointment of a permanent president of the eurogroup. that seems like a good decision. and i'm glad to see the right candidate sitting in the room. i therefore wish commissioner rehn every success in his european ambition for the future. he can count on my support.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr gauzès, you are a member for whom i have the greatest respect and so i have an extremely simple question for you. as you said, populations suffer from the adjustment effort. in your heart and in your conscience, do you consider that the distribution of these efforts, as it is today in the various states, is socially just?
in writing. the troika programmes failed to meet the objectives of reducing macroeconomic imbalances and public debt. this is in total contradiction with the employment and growth objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. we can only condemn the negative social and economic impacts, including reduced access to health services, increased inequality, mass youth unemployment, increased gender inequality. it is imperative to reform this troika, which serves no one in northern or southern europe, in northern or southern belgium.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr minister, on the eve of the 25th session of the un human rights council, i would like to stress a few points which are a priority for my group. first, support for high commissioner navi pillay for her remarkable effort to strengthen the treaty monitoring process through the so-called 'treaty bodies', which are groups of experts, numbering ten, and which are the guarantors of the implementation of the rights recognised by the treaties. without them, and without civil society, it is true, mrs andrikienė, who should be better involved, these treaties would be in danger of being mere rags of paper. mrs pillay must have the human and financial means to pursue this policy. secondly, we believe that some of the themes are equally important: the rights of the child, the rights of women and girls, and the eradication of torture in the world. i ask that special attention be paid to the increasingly widespread torture of children, which continues in war zones but also in places of detention, in orphanages, in schools and on the internet. recent reports from the un, unicef, human rights watch have revealed intolerable cases of mass torture, even in israel, sudan, south sudan, india and many other countries. it is morally unacceptable and it is criminal under international law. unfortunately, the question of funding is again raised. the european union and the member states must continue to finance and support the voluntary fund for victims of torture and the special fund established by the optional protocol to the convention against torture. on lgbt rights, i urge that pressure be put on countries like uganda and nigeria to withdraw the discriminatory laws they have enacted, which are genuine calls for hatred and denunciation. but in russia too, we are seeing a dangerous drift. it will be useful to recall this when we deal with this country. the resolution cites many countries, not so much to indulge in the ambiguous pleasure of stigmatization as to urge them to improve the human rights situation in their own countries by remedying the abuses mentioned.
the creation of an asylum and migration fund is a bloodbath. the efficiency of bringing together three existing funds into one is being undermined by the fact that the european union is not providing solutions to the member states' asylum and migration problems. the european union is part of the problem. the operation of the fund is accompanied by the introduction of new regulations and procedures which make it virtually impossible for member states to pursue their own asylum and immigration policies. the fact that people are talking about legal migration again is a slap in the face for the more than 26 million unemployed in the european union. and instead of creating more and more instruments for the common immigration policy, member states should be given the right and the opportunity to control their own borders again. that's what we need. but we can again see the political autism of the eu and of the european parliament in particular, which remains deaf and blind to the groans of the electorate. the recent referendum in switzerland on mass immigration should have been a warning. this one, however, was not heard. then we'll see you on sunday, may 25th. (the president agreed to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
"blue card" is the answer. mr president, first of all i would like to say that the fact that each member state must be able to control its own borders again does not prevent cooperation at european level to stem the flow of immigration to our continent. this means, for example, that countries in the south of the european union, such as italy, spain and so on, can be assisted by the other member states. but each member state must in future be able to control its own borders and to set its own accents, because the problems in a country like france or the netherlands are very different from those in countries like slovenia, slovakia, the czech republic or lithuania or anywhere else. the fact that asylum seekers can still come in is something that few people will fight. it's not about that. the point is that there is still labour immigration. and that is totally irresponsible in a situation where there are over 26 million unemployed. (the president agreed to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
"blue card" is the answer. mr president, it is of course a cheap rhetorical trick for mr tavares to pretend now that he is someone who is open-minded about the problems. i also look at the problems with an open mind. and i am taking stock of the policies that have been put in place over the past few years. i also compare that with the promises made to the people of europe, to the voters. it has been said that the abolition of internal border controls would be offset by the fact that the external borders would still be protected and controlled in an effective and efficient way. well, that's not the case. there are over 900,000 illegal immigrants re-entering the eu every year. that is not my figure, but a figure from frontex and europol. now, there is something wrong with the policy and we have to do something about it. and instead of continuing with the wrong policies, we must dare to go back to the old policies.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr stolojan, for his approach and his good cooperation. it has not been easy for him, for what at first seemed a simple file soon proved to be a tangle of obstacles. the funding programme aims to finance certain organisations setting standards for financial reporting and auditing by the european taxpayer. a very important task because it determines what should or should not be booked and how it should be done. and of course the aim should be that the rules should map the health status of companies and banks in the most transparent way possible. the governments must play an active supervisory role in this respect, in the public interest. we know that the three organisations were not always well or transparently managed, that private players can have a great deal of influence, that there are risks of conflicts of interest, that european accounting principles were not always adopted despite our explicit financial support. the agreement with the council largely takes up mr maystadt's recommendations on what is a good thing, but, as you know, in recent weeks additional problems have emerged which require the attention of the commission and of this parliament. firstly - and you have already pointed this out, madam commissioner - there was the award of the contract for the preparation of the revision of ifrs to mazars, an audit firm, a partner of efrag, one of the organisations supported by this programme. that has now been discontinued and the analysis itself will now be carried out by the commission. the question is whether that could not have been decided earlier. but anyway, this side. secondly, it is now also apparent that ifrs is still formally incorporated in delaware, which is sufficiently well known as a tax haven in the united states. for my group this is a matter of principle, a major problem. i would ask the commission to solve this problem by next year at the latest. you know that we have to approve the budgets every year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
the agenda calls for the debate on the oral question to the commission on european business services centres in asia, by vital moreira, daniel caspary, niccolò rinaldi, jan zahradil, robert sturdy, on behalf of the committee on international trade (o-000005/2014) (b7-0109/2014) (2013/2915 (((rsp)).
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on:- oral question to the commission on the mackerel fishery in the north-east atlantic, by pat the cope gallagher and gabriel mato adrover, on behalf of the committee on fisheries (o-000147/2013 b7-0111/2014) (2014/2529(rsp)) and- oral question to the commission on the conservation of bluefin tuna, by alain cadec and gabriel mato adrover, on behalf of the committee on fisheries (o-000023/2014 b7-0112/2014) (2014/2555(rsp)).
i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 115 (1) of the rules of procedure. the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by eider gardiazábal rubial on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2015 budget, section iii commission, on behalf of the committee on budgets, (2014/2004 ((bud)) (a7-0159/2014).
madam president, the european parliament seems to be living in a kind of parallel reality. on the one hand, the resolution acknowledges that there is an acute shortage of resources, but on the other hand it refuses to draw the necessary conclusions. we need to save money, we need to get rid of fat. and that means that the internal resources of the institutions and agencies must be cut first. it is irresponsible to continue to maintain bodies as useless as they are expensive, such as the committee of the regions and the economic and social committee. the list of eu bodies that could be better targeted is too long to list here. i am going to make an exception for the external action service which costs more than half a billion euros a year, while the european union is not even able to conduct a uniform foreign policy. however, an eu diplomatic service is being built up alongside the existing network of embassies and consulates of the 28 member states. and speaking of foreign policy, there's going to be an 11 billion euro aid package for ukraine. whoever has the breadth can leave it hanging. but i would like to know from the commission how much it expects to recover in the long term and what conditions are attached to the provision of this aid package?
i have received a request from the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats to appoint giovanni barbagallo as a member of the committee on regional development and the delegation for relations with the mashreq countries. are there any observations? there is no such thing. these appointments are approved.
i would like to welcome the estonians.
the agenda calls for voting time.
the groups have explicitly asked for a separate vote on each of the points and they are entitled to do so. i am therefore obliged to go over the votes point by point.
madam president, i have just noticed that 381 members voted on this vote. so we're down to less than half. the quorum is not reached and it would be wrong for the excellent report by our colleague mr charles goerens on development policy and the other reports to be tainted with a procedural error or approved by a vote in which only half the members of parliament participated. should we not then postpone the rest of the votes until the mini-session in brussels to be in numbers? (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr tarabella, i welcome your willingness to give legitimacy to these votes, but the quorum is one third of the members present.
madam president, to facilitate the adoption of the gue/ngl amendment and the text is known to all, i propose to remove by repealing the 1977 amnesty law. it concerns the crimes of the spanish dictatorship. i remove "by repealing the 1997 amnesty law"
i note the withdrawal of the motion for a resolution. this concludes voting time.
in writing. the union's objective of creating an area of freedom, security and justice should be achieved, in particular through the application of common measures forming an asylum and immigration policy, based on solidarity between member states, which is fair towards third countries and their nationals. the european council of 2[nbsp ]december[nbsp ]2009 noted that financial resources within the union should be able to be used in an increasingly flexible and coherent manner, both in terms of scope and applicability, to allow asylum and migration policy to evolve.
in writing. we welcome the council decision authorising member states to ratify or accede to the hong kong convention. this convention constitutes a first step at global level towards safer and more environmentally sound recycling of ships flying the flag of a third country, while emphasising that truly safe and environmentally sound recycling can only be achieved by going beyond the provisions of this convention, as the new eu regulation on ship recycling does.
in writing. the so-called 'troika' of the commission, the european central bank (ecb) and the international monetary fund (imf) has already intervened in four eu countries: greece, portugal, ireland and cyprus. although its intervention has probably helped these countries to avoid a short-term default, which is welcome, this report makes a severe assessment of its internal workings. this fact highlights the unequal distribution of responsibilities between the three institutions, the too wide differences in the way negotiations are conducted and the too many democratic shortcomings. the report also makes recommendations: implementation of clear, transparent and binding rules on interaction between the institutions of the troika; the creation of emergency channels in case the initial recommendations of the troika prove to be inaccurate or inappropriate; the aim of the project is to improve the understanding of social issues, improve communication and improve national support for the proposed plan. these measures are essential and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the crisis has shown that the existing framework for the economic governance of the union was not geared to combating this crisis. under considerable time pressure, rescue mechanisms and the troika were set up to help countries facing the greatest difficulties, to prevent disorderly insolvency and spillover of the crisis to other member states, and to prevent the breakdown of the euro area. the role of the ecb and the way decisions were taken in the troika were sometimes difficult to understand in these contexts. in future, therefore, it is all the more important that not only relations within the troika's organs are clear, transparent and governed by binding rules, but that tasks and responsibilities are also clearly defined. since the temporary european financial stability facility (efsf) and the permanent european stability mechanism (esm) were also established on an ad hoc basis as intergovernmental mechanisms, it is all the more important that the esm is integrated into the eu legal framework in the long term and is made accountable to the european parliament and the european council including for decisions on granting financial assistance .
in writing. the s&d group deplores the authoritarian and austerity policies of the troika and considers that it operates outside the legal framework of the union. we believe that technocrats cannot continue to give orders to the elected representatives of the people. europe needs a genuine european monetary fund, backed by eu law, to support countries in difficulty and to involve the european parliament in the decision-making process. the report concludes that the decisions of the troika are inappropriate and undemocratic and that it should be abolished. it recommended that the european commission set up a european monetary fund governed by eu law and a european stability mechanism. the international monetary fund would be an optional participant and the european central bank a tacit observer. in addition, country-specific solutions need to be implemented more rapidly, in addition to a medium-term reform at european level.
in writing. the unprecedented economic and financial crisis that has hit the european union since 2010 and the drastic measures taken to save greece, portugal, cyprus and ireland leave no one indifferent, as the impact on employment, health and the lives of the population in general is considerable. the first steps are now being taken, and the role of the troika, the body made up of representatives of the european central bank, the european commission and the international monetary fund, is being criticized. let us say it right away, the primary responsibility lies with the governments of these countries which have created this situation of bankruptcy, holding their people hostage for at least a decade! the responsibility of the eurogroup, which gave the troika a mandate, is also assumed. the intervention was necessary but the results showed its ineffectiveness: increasing debt, explosion of precariousness and a significant decrease in tax revenues. this is the conclusion of the cercas report on the social aspects of the troika's role, adopted this afternoon by a large majority of 408 votes, with a clearly stated aim: to turn the page and introduce crisis management mechanisms which will enable all the union's institutions to achieve social objectives.
in writing. in recent years, the social dimension of the union has been totally ignored. now europe must show that it is concerned not only about the financial health of the member states but also about the daily lives of its citizens. europe is not just a club of lenders, it is a community of values. this report focuses on the countries (greece, ireland, portugal and cyprus) which have been affected by the troika's economic adjustment programmes. it provides a thorough analysis of the social impact of these programmes. the report calls on the troika and the member states to end these programmes as soon as possible and to create a transparent crisis management mechanism within the eu institutions. it called on the commission to study, together with the international labour organisation (ilo) and the council of europe, the employment and social consequences of these adjustment programmes, with a view to proposing corrective measures and incentives to improve the situation of these countries in these areas.
in writing. the european union's internal affairs policy is to create an area of freedom, security and justice: an area without internal borders, where people can enter, move and live freely, with the certainty that their rights will be fully respected and their security guaranteed, in the light of common challenges, such as the development of a comprehensive union immigration policy to strengthen the union's competitiveness and social cohesion. this policy also includes the creation of a common european asylum system, the prevention of the threats posed by large-scale organised crime, and the fight against illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, cybercrime and terrorism.
in writing. crime, and in particular organised crime, is a serious threat to the security of european citizens and to the development of the internal market. police cooperation between member states and with third countries is therefore an essential instrument for the effective fight against criminal phenomena which are now essentially transnational in nature. the fight against the networks typical of organised crime, including the recycling of illicit profits, meets the requirements of protecting the lawful economy and the market against possible distortions. the instrument for financial support for police cooperation, the prevention and repression of crime and crisis management constitutes, together with the asylum and migration instrument, one of the two pillars of the internal security fund provided for in the multiannual financial framework of the european union for the period 2014-2020.
in writing. the current practice of fixing, at the beginning of the mff, the annual allocations that member states will receive for the whole seven-year period is a guarantee of continuity and predictability (adequate programming). however, it is essentially a static method that does not provide incentives for member states to take action in response to the union's priorities and does not allow the union to react to changing situations and priorities. the allocation and implementation mechanism of the resources selected under the future home affairs funds should reconcile the need for continuity and stability with the need for flexibility and adaptation to change.
in writing. i support the overall objective of the proposed directive, namely to ensure a high common level of network and information security (nis). in order to improve the effectiveness of the proposed measures, your rapporteur considers that this directive, as a starting point, should be limited to certain operators, protect investments in network and information security that have already been made, and avoid duplication of institutional structures and obligations imposed on market players. i also believe that the directive in question should support the establishment of trusting relationships and the development of exchanges between public and private actors, and that the negative reactions manifested in the form of a mere 'culture of compliance' should be avoided in favour of the expected 'culture of risk management'. in view of these considerations, your rapporteur proposes to increase the impact of the directive by introducing a series of amendments.
in writing. with the financial market crisis since 2008, financial reporting and auditing have become a top priority of eu policy. an effective common framework for financial reporting is essential for the proper functioning of the internal market and capital markets and for the achievement of an integrated market for financial services in the union. in the light of the findings of 22 february 2013 of the uk competition commission on the market for the statutory audit of ftse 350 companies, controllers in particular should ensure that they are strictly independent of issuers in order to facilitate the efficient functioning of the union capital markets and to serve the shareholders, not the issuer's management.
in writing. i am pleased that the proposal highlights the benefits of interoperability between radio equipment and accessories such as chargers. however, further efforts are needed to develop a universal charger. this would simplify the use of radio equipment such as mobile phones, reduce waste and costs and, therefore, bring considerable benefits to consumers.
in writing. i note that, despite the persistence of some adverse factors, the european economy is showing some signs of recovery and, while acknowledging the remaining economic and budgetary constraints at national level and the fiscal consolidation efforts made by member states, i believe that the european budget should encourage this trend by reinforcing strategic investment in european added value actions, in order to help get the european economy back on track, generating sustainable growth and employment while working to strengthen competitiveness and improve economic and social cohesion across the union.
in writing. putin is especially very tense about having a country with a real democracy on its borders. he is afraid that a true democratic model will be copied in russia, because that would mean his loss. his hold on the russian people is less than it was in the past. the middle class is more mixed about it, tired of the country's stagnation. he had the previous president under control, the arrival of the new government changed the game. besides, he needs ukraine for a big eurasian trade deal. however, without ukraine, it has almost no choice but to attract potential asian partners to kazakhstan, which is too small to be economically significant. putin has every interest not in taking back crimea (which he already has virtually), but in installing instability that shows the weakness of the state to find solutions and guarantee the solidity of the state. it would also prevent trade agreements with the europeans. putin wanted to drive out, manu militari, so to speak, the few fragrances of democracy that were born on maidan square in kiev. by wanting to show his strength, he's actually showing his weakness!
in writing. the objective of this report is to assess the implementation of the lisbon treaty, paying particular attention to the impact of the main changes it has introduced on the interinstitutional relations between the european parliament and the commission since its entry into force. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and corruption, and to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. in reality, even if the treaty of lisbon did not call into question the commission's role as the driving force behind european activity, the result is that over the last four years the commission has lost some of its political influence within the institutional architecture of the union. this erosion of the commission's powers is to a large extent linked to the economic and financial crisis, which is working rather in favour of the intervention and authority of the european council and, therefore, the progression of intergovernmental action to the detriment of the community method.
in writing. the sustainability of land governance depends on institutional reforms and capacity building programmes that must accompany the registration of land ownership and small businesses. public authorities have an important role to play in defining property rights and enforcing them through the courts and the police. however, contrary to widespread prejudice, the state is not the source or distributor of property, but its protector. normally charged with protecting legitimate land claims, national land titling systems have often been used to legalize land theft. the establishment of land reform and property rights requires a high degree of flexibility to allow for adaptation to local cultural and social conditions.
in writing. the report focuses on the following proposals: an arbitration mechanism, entrusted to the president of the european commission, which should rule on the basis of the union's commitments on cfp (paragraph [nbsp ]1); the important role that the european parliament could play in the process of promoting cfp (paragraph [nbsp ]7); the need to create an independent mechanism within the union to formally collect and deal with complaints lodged by citizens and communities affected by union policies (paragraph [nbsp ] 8).
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution. we deplore the fact that the space for interaction between civil society and the human rights council is shrinking and that the opportunities for ngos to speak at the sessions are becoming less and less. we urge the union and the human rights council to ensure that members of civil society can contribute as fully as possible to the 25th[nbsp] session of the human rights council, as well as to the universal periodic review process and other un human rights mechanisms, without fear of reprisals upon return to their countries of origin. we condemn the reported reprisals and urge the eeas and the member states to ensure that these acts are systematically monitored.
in writing. president. - ladies and gentlemen, what is on the table today is nothing but the very logic of the european internal market. mobile phone calls, text messages and internet surfing abroad should not be more expensive than using a mobile phone in the home country from the end of next year. the latest eurobarometer survey shows that one in two europeans drastically limits their mobile phone use abroad. 9 out of 10 actually stop using the internet on their smartphone altogether. because people are rightly wary of astronomical bills. it is therefore high time that we work towards a truly unified european telecommunications market. we have already raised the ceilings for mobile phone, sms and internet a few times, but now we are going to level the playing field across the eu. that should and will also give a strong boost to the app sector. apps with tourist information, city maps, photos and so on have enormous potential, which is now being missed by the far too high roaming charges. this amendment is therefore good for consumers and for the sector itself. this is a priority for parliament. we assume that governments are on this line.
in writing. the european parliament has voted in favour of provisions prohibiting telecommunications companies from downgrading or blocking internet connections for their competitors' services and applications. at the moment, access to the net by giants like facebook or microsoft is not favored over a small business website or a citizen blog. but if the definition of 'specialised services' is not clearer, those companies that can afford it will be able to pay for the information superhighway, leaving start-ups and non-profit websites on the secondary network. it would no longer be the citizen who decides the priorities he gives to a particular source of information, but the operator who would do so without his knowledge by granting privileges to the large groups that can afford them. net neutrality would then become net caste. we have tabled an amendment to protect this neutrality, but the left-right divide is strong on this point and the vote on this particular point is difficult to predict.
it is a new work to sum up in one minute the unheard-of nonsense contained in this report on the stockholm programme. there is the obligatory passage about the alleged discrimination of roma, without any thought being given to the question of whether roma are not partly responsible for the misery in which they find themselves. for the first time ever, there is self-congratulation over the abolition of internal border controls and ignorance of the problems that this causes. just think of the increase in illegal immigration and cross-border crime. there is a renewed call for more immigration, when there are already so many problems and we are in the european union with over 26 million unemployed. there's even a plea for regularizing illegal aliens. this report should be printed in all the newspapers in the member states so that the electorate will know within two months what is going on in this parliament.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we also believe that it is a priority that the measures should be put into effect as soon as possible, before the end of this parliamentary term. other groups have tabled amendments calling for respect for human rights before the proposed measures can come into force. my group - let me be clear - is of course not against that principle, is not against that condition, but we do not want to delay the process. firstly, because we are aware that the measures are temporary. moreover, as has already been said, by signing the political part of the association agreement, ukraine has promised to respect democratic principles, human rights and fundamental freedoms. my group therefore wishes to ask the european commission: mr de gucht, can you confirm that the adoption of the amendments tabled to the report will prevent the measures from coming into force before the end of the parliamentary term? is that the case? if there is no other way to avoid this, we will of course vote accordingly.
in writing. aviation emissions are a global problem that can only be effectively addressed at a global level. in the transport committee we found a balanced solution, which provides for both a suspension of the emissions trading system (ets) for international flights by 2016 and exceptions for the outermost regions. these amendments were adopted in the trilogue negotiations with the council, and the outcome of these negotiations is therefore satisfactory and should be supported. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eec treaty is applied in all its aspects. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the air carriers from third countries do not comply with the existing ets.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, as you know, i am one of the high representative’s staunch supporters and i remain so. as this is her last appearance before this parliament during this legislature, i believe that she is quite right in highlighting the successes of her tenure. it has almost been a mission impossible but she has achieved remarkable successes. the establishment of the european external action service is in itself a success and the fact that it has started functioning reasonably well is a success. high representative, you have had successes in kosovo and especially in iran, which was extremely difficult to achieve. nothing is definite yet, but we are nevertheless on the way. all of these are remarkable achievements. therefore, i regret all the more that i have missed you dearly in the most recent developments concerning ukraine and the crimea. i know – and i trust – that you have been very present and very active, but i am sorry to say that you have not been very visible. when i saw the meetings between mr lavrov and mr kerry, i almost moaned ‘where is cathy?’ as it seemed that you were absent. i believe you were certainly in the wings, but please reassure us, because i missed you.
madam high representative, we are reflecting here today on the legacy of your policies, and there are many good things about that. you deserve all the credit for that, too. there are also less good sides. what strikes me most about my particular interest in ukraine and russia is that we have not learned enough strategic thinking as an eu in the last five years. as a eurorealist, i believe that the european union can best concentrate on those areas where cooperation can really add value. one of the main lines is a common foreign policy. what putin has done recently is to treat ukraine with disrespect and laugh the union in the face, knowing full well that we cannot even really make a fist economically. we owe it to ourselves. we have a lot to offer our neighbours, but we must first be stronger internally. i hope that your successor will be able to extend these strategic beacons further and will really have the opportunity to do so, because if that does not happen, we will unfortunately have more ukrainians.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr minister, i think that in our text we are questioning the legitimacy of president rouhani. in my view, if one can challenge certain selection procedures in the text as regards his election, one cannot challenge the election itself. the president's room for manoeuvre - we realised this in december when we went there - is very narrow and i think it is certainly not the european union's place to try to narrow it down. it is clear that progress has been made. of course, they seem insufficient in the light of our requirements. however, the release of ms. sakineh asthiani or ms. sotoudeh and mr. panahi are important elements that obviously should not make us forget the whole problem, including the executions and the non-respect of the rights of minorities and non-religious minorities. however, these openings should lead us to focus on areas where support is needed. i think that a dialogue on human rights, based on discussion and exchange, must be able to take place. it's not impossible at all, there's even an opening on the iranian regime's side thanks for letting me continue. i think it is important, essential, to open no translation, we will do it again, i think my colleagues are unhappy that they could not hear in their own language what i had to say to them. tell me what i'm doing, mr. president. i'll go on, all right, and i'll explain it to you in another language. so i think it is now urgent to set up this delegation of the european union. we have seen how much the european ambassadors are looking forward to it and it will be an extremely valuable instrument to increase our vigilance and our attention to being on the right side, that of people who want to open up iran and defenders of human rights. i also think that we - the european union - should pursue a more independent policy, one that is not necessarily linked to that of the united states. i think we have something to do in iran, a country that is, in a way, close to us. it is of strategic importance and is also culturally close to us. so i think we have a special mission to accomplish. this sensitive mission has begun with difficulty. i believe that it must be pursued with the necessary vigilance and the will to succeed.
mr president, some people think that president rouhani is a moderate. i disagree. in 2013, 660 executions took place in iran, two thirds under the authority of mr rouhani. he also appointed mr aboutalebi as the iranian ambassador to the united nations. he was one of the students who seized the american embassy in 1979, so he is a terrorist. the minister of foreign affairs, mr[nbsp ]zarif, recently laid a wreath at the grave of mr mughniyeh, who masterminded the bombing of us marines in lebanon in 1983. at the same time, camp liberty is under siege and nothing is being done about it. these are not really signs of confidence-building measures. iran is determined to continue enrichment and the development of missile technology to construct a nuclear weapon. we are not stopping the process, but just delaying it. we have to be much stricter. now iran is fooling us, but perhaps people here want to be fooled in order to continue day-dreaming. i wish high representative ashton all the best in the future, but i do hope her name will not enter history as the chamberlain of our times.
for the commission thank you, mr president, i am speaking on behalf of mr theurer, who is chairman of the committee on budgetary control and who was unable to be present today. i'm the first vice chairman of this committee. i have to say in the strongest terms that what you are saying and what the president has decided is absolutely wrong. we give the president a discharge - and that is an important thing - and the president acts as judge and party. we give the president a discharge and he says: i do not want to see a certain part of the report in that report. part of it is indeed about the follow-up to the olaf report on mr dalli. but other parts of the paragraph in question, madam president, deal with the fact that a belgian investigating judge had asked three members of this parliament to testify to what had happened, in particular mr bové... (remains unintelligible by shouting in the chamber).
i think we are setting a precedent, ladies and gentlemen, if we allow the president - as has now happened - to have an important paragraph deleted from this report, in which he is both judge and party, because we are giving the president a discharge, yes or no. so i think it would be very wise to postpone this vote and give the president a chance to reflect and come back from his wrong decision he took earlier. thank you, sir.
in writing. i share the rapporteur's concerns. i am concerned that the definition of 'older worker' is not applied consistently in the operational programmes for the period 2007-2013; notes that many managing authorities do not use the definition of 'older worker' given by the lisbon agenda, namely any person of working age between 55 and 64 years, in their respective operational programmes, but refer to different age groups; considers that the definition of 'older worker' should be adapted to the maximum legal retirement age in each member state. i also regret the lack of comprehensive and reliable data, including gender-disaggregated data, to assess the effectiveness of esf spending on older workers; considers that the use of esf funds should be transparent. information on the programmes financed, the achievement of their objectives and their budget should be easily accessible to citizens on public websites.
in writing. we have decided not to defend mario borghezio's immunity and privileges. we have instructed the president to forward this decision and the report of his committee responsible to the competent authority of the italian republic and to mario borghezio without delay.
in writing. the arrest of mr sergei magnitsky and his death in prison in november 2009 is a flagrant and shocking case of disregard for fundamental rights in russia. these events bring back bad memories of the many violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms committed in that country. i strongly support the request to the council to take measures to ban visas to the european union and freeze the assets of 32 russian officials suspected of being responsible for the torture and death of russian lawyer sergei magnitsky and the 'repeated' harassment of his family members. the adoption of this text is part of the overall approach to remind russia of the respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law, which are the pillars and the very essence of the council of europe of which it is a member. i naturally support any initiative to fight impunity for human rights violations and by voting for this text i join parliament's call on russia to clarify the circumstances of mr magnitsky's death, bring the perpetrators to justice and put an end to the persecution against his family.
in writing. we want to draw up a common union-wide list of officials responsible for the death of sergei magnitsky, the judicial cover-up and the ongoing harassment of sergei magnitsky's mother and widow. we want an eu-wide visa ban for these officials and a freezing of any financial assets they or their close family members may hold in the eu.
in writing. i believe that the follow-up and implementation of the declaration adopted at the high level meeting on the rule of law of 24 september 2012 should be actively promoted at national and international level, and that the extent to which the rule of law can be linked to the current reflection on the post-2015 mdgs should be explored. on the other hand, there is a need to strengthen international efforts to ensure that all human rights recognised by un conventions are considered to be universal, indivisible, interdependent and closely linked and are respected, and to promote the integration of human rights and fundamental freedoms into all aspects of the work of the un.
in writing. independent european broadcasters offer audiences in europe and around the world a common vision and defend the values enshrined in the eu treaties. furthermore, as the main source of information for citizens, broadcasting makes it possible to reach audiences in europe and in third countries efficiently and cost-effectively. it is therefore necessary to take account of the many opportunities offered by these media and to consider these tools as a vehicle that can play an essential role on the international scene and convey european values throughout the world. in this respect, it is essential to put in place a coherent strategy for the radio and television broadcasting of european media. the creation of a european radio service broadcasting throughout the world would be very useful not only in terms of the impact of european action but also as an overall instrument of the union's external relations.
in writing. the council must understand that free european media, and in particular a financially viable and independent public service broadcasting, are important for promoting democratic values and informing the public about the measures taken and the objectives pursued in the framework of the cfsp, in particular by fostering a better understanding of the issues that unite and divide europe and a more uniform understanding of foreign policy among european citizens. a coherent and robust strategy on european media broadcasting in the union's external relations should be established, thereby promoting freedom of expression and media pluralism while protecting and strengthening democracy and human rights in europe and in third countries, and made an integral tool of the cfsp.
in writing. we consider it also important to protect blind people and vulnerable users by installing an appropriate warning system on electric vehicles. parliament and the council have agreed on the mandatory nature of such a system; it was agreed that this provision will be applicable within 3 years of the implementation of the regulation for all new vehicles and within 5 years for all electric-hybrid and electric vehicles. we also attach great importance to the problems of road pavement and its role in reducing vehicle noise. parliament and the council agreed that the commission should develop guidelines for information and good practice on the technological development of coating and its classification, on the basis of information provided by the member states. a recital to that effect has been inserted in the regulation.
in writing. we support the amendment of the provisions on databases proposed by the commission. as a direct consequence of the amendment of regulation (ec) no[nbsp ]1760/2000, this revision is necessary and appropriate. however, beyond the commission's proposal, we suggest adding 'the means of identification used' to the information requested from operators about their operations. this is to ensure accurate and up-to-date knowledge of the level of use of the two means available for the identification of bovine animals.
in writing. the european union currently has no horizontal legislative framework to enforce its rights under the wto and other international trade agreements. the proposed instrument is legitimately designed to strengthen the enforcement of the union's trade rights, to establish its credibility and, ultimately, to convince our trading partners to respect the rules of the game laid down in trade agreements. the proposal is also part of a strategy to broaden the union's markets and align the decision-making process with the lisbon treaty. the aim of this text is therefore to provide the union with an appropriate instrument to ensure the effective exercise of its rights under international trade agreements, in order to safeguard its economic interests. it is therefore very important that the union should adopt this horizontal instrument as soon as possible in order to be able to enforce its rights when a trading partner does not respect its commitments.
in writing. the european union currently has no horizontal legislative framework to enforce its rights under the wto and other international trade agreements. in a world where retaliation is on the rise, the proposed instrument is legitimately designed to strengthen the enforcement of the union's trade rights, to establish its credibility and, ultimately, to convince our trading partners to respect the rules of the game laid down in trade agreements. the proposal under consideration is also part of a strategy to widen the union's markets and aligns the decision-making process with the lisbon treaty. this new instrument should also be considered within the framework of multilateral (wto), regional and bilateral dispute settlement rules and procedures, which already give the complainant country the right to choose the 'last resort' option, under which it can temporarily take defensive retaliatory measures against the offending country when it refuses to comply with a decision of a dispute settlement body. this instrument is therefore not intended to be protectionist in any way.
in writing. i am not opposed to bangladesh being charged an export tax. however, this decision should be taken by the legislators in bangladesh and not by the european institutions. we asked the commission why it included such references and provisions in its proposal, but it did not give a satisfactory answer. i am therefore satisfied that the rapporteur has deleted these references and provisions from the regulation and has introduced a new recital which recognises bangladesh's right to levy an export tax of an amount which he deems appropriate. it is essential to stress that the regulation must be in line with the general provisions of article 208 tfeu and the general objectives of sustainable economic development, decent working conditions in bangladesh and poverty eradication in bangladesh. the rapporteur has therefore introduced a new recital and a new paragraph in article 1 of the regulation.
in writing. medical devices are instruments, software or implants used for diagnosis, monitoring, treatment or replacement in the event of injury or disability. there is a wide range of these, from low-risk products such as corrective lenses, adhesive plasters, etc., to high-risk devices such as cardiac regulators and hip replacements. since the regulatory framework currently governing medical devices dates from 1990 and 1993, it requires substantial updating to keep pace with technological and scientific progress on the one hand and to harmonise its implementation on the other. recent scandals, such as breast implant fraud and problems with metal prostheses of the coxofemoral joint, have shown that the authorisation system in place is not suitable for high-risk devices. under the current system, notified bodies assess the performance and safety of medical devices. however, this process and the remuneration demanded from producers are not sufficiently transparent.
in writing. there is a consensus that the european union should not seek to restrict access to dna testing for patients but that appropriate genetic counselling should be systematically offered to inform them of the consequences before the test is carried out. in order to respect the principle of subsidiarity, it should be for the member states to regulate the modalities and member states should have the possibility to go beyond what is required by the regulation. it could even be argued that it is mandatory to include informed consent in the proposal because it is a crucial element of the charter of fundamental rights (article 3) and the charter of fundamental rights is legally binding on the european union in the areas where it intervenes.
in writing. we can be satisfied with the commission's proposal and i believe that the new accounts will help to develop new, more comprehensive indicators to improve public debate and policy-making. in view of the financial and staff constraints currently facing the national statistical institutes, it is important to focus on improving the quality and encouraging the use of existing modules and those which the commission has put forward in the proposal under consideration. the additional administrative burden should be kept to a minimum. after consulting various data collection services, it became clear that some member states were not yet ready for this new exercise and wanted to postpone its implementation by one year. i can support the idea of a deferral, as long as it benefits the quality of the data provided by the member states to eurostat. the widespread use of environmental accounting data by the european commission and national administrations can only be encouraged, with the aim of developing targeted policies that can contribute to the union's policy priorities of green growth and resource efficiency.
in writing. this text is part of a broad movement to raise awareness among european public opinion of the european union's external action in developing countries. a broad public support and strong political support are essential to the success of the union's development action. i am well aware that european development policy is currently suffering from a lack of public image. i support any initiative to remedy this image deficit. the european year for development (2015) should therefore serve as a catalyst to raise public awareness through public policy debate, and to provide impetus and enable the exchange of good practice between member states, local and regional authorities, civil society, including local associations in developing countries, local partners, trade unions and entities and organisations. the year 2015 will be a good opportunity to recall that the right to respect for human dignity is not dependent on a person's place of residence or heritage, but that the irreducibility of human dignity is the basic principle of all european policy.
in writing. the legislative initiative which is the subject of this report is the result of a public awareness campaign involving representatives of the economic and social committee, the committee of the regions, concord and the european parliament. a dedicated round table at the 2012 european development days provided an opportunity to spread the idea to a wider audience. the commission also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union. the proposed legislation is therefore the culmination of a major awareness-raising effort.
in writing. the proposed programme aims to contribute to the creation of an independent european space surveillance and tracking capability for orbiting objects (sst) to prevent and monitor the increasing risk of collision between space infrastructure and other space vehicles or debris. the need for osh is shared at international and national levels by both governments and industry in general, which are dependent on space infrastructure. it is also important to ensure the long-term availability of european space assets, such as the satellites of the galileo and copernicus programmes. this is the first attempt of its kind at union level and the commission proposes to start by pooling the resources and skills available in the member states and providing services to users. we propose that the esa know-how be taken into account in an agreement between esa and the participating member states. esa is the only body with competence at european level for osh and more generally for ash. if esa cannot manage or control the programme, it should be able to contribute to it.
in writing. in the current financial framework, food security budget lines were under the same heading as the common agricultural policy (cap), but the new structure of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework provides for the shift of food security budget lines from heading two to heading three. this transfer of appropriations for the 2014-2020 programming period entails a significant risk of budget shortfall in the event of a very large-scale animal disease outbreak. if such an outbreak should occur, the union must be able to mobilise, very quickly, additional funds to finance emergency veterinary or phytosanitary measures and thus prevent further losses. in this context, the commission proposal provides for access to the agricultural crisis reserve to respond to emergency situations in the veterinary or phytosanitary sector. however, a solution is needed to strengthen the food security budget, if necessary, should such large-scale agricultural crises occur. unfortunately, given the limited overall allocation for the eu budget for 2014-2020, identifying a fund that could be used in these cases is not easy.
in writing. council regulation (ec) no[nbsp]2173/2005 establishes a licensing regime for 'forest law enforcement, governance and trade', known as flegt (forest law enforcement, government and trade). this scheme was set up to combat the problem of illegal logging and the associated trade. it applies to specified wood and derived products exported from 'partner countries', i.e. countries which have voluntary partnership agreements with the european union. it thus ensures that only timber and derived products legally harvested in accordance with the national legislation of these partner countries may enter the union. the import of certain timber and derived products from the partner countries without a flegt import authorisation is prohibited. six states are currently implementing this system under a voluntary partnership agreement (cameroon, ghana, indonesia, liberia, the central african republic and the republic of congo); six other countries are in negotiations with the union to conclude such agreements.
in writing. making clinical trials of medicines for human use more transparent, clearer and more uniform is a vital necessity for the proper functioning of the health system at european level. this transparency, clarity and uniformity of the rules in this area will improve the protection of patients and their access to appropriate treatment. indeed, the coordination and coherent application of policies at local level is one of the major challenges facing the european union. i encourage efforts to harmonize and coordinate policies at union level. in addition, working at european level in the field of health will reduce the cost and burden of conducting transnational clinical trials. i look forward to the scientific advances that the proposal will bring.
in writing. the general consensus among stakeholders is that the current legislation on clinical trials needs to be revised as a matter of urgency. the number of clinical trials conducted in europe has declined sharply in recent years, at least in part due to some of the measures introduced by the clinical trials directive. between 2007 and 2011, the number of clinical trials conducted in the european union fell by 25%, and many trials are now being conducted in emerging economies. this decline not only has serious economic consequences but also hinders medical advances, to the detriment of patients. europe must be competitive and attractive to pharmaceutical companies wishing to carry out research, but at the same time it must promote academic research and encourage the development of medicines to treat rare diseases. at the same time, europe should be a world reference in patient safety and transparency, in order to gain public trust and promote the quality of science.
in writing. three years after the fukushima nuclear disaster (march 2011), it is important to take the management of the nuclear issue seriously. i support the approach of my colleagues in parliament to harmonize and make the nuclear safety directive's management framework effective and preventive. i strongly recommend that member states take the lessons of the fukushima accident into account and i call on them to fulfil their obligations with regard to the establishment and maintenance of a national framework for nuclear safety. after the fukushima accident, a number of requirements were established by the european council. states must take seriously the respect of these obligations, in particular the peer review of the safety of power stations every six years, in the context of stress tests.
in writing. following the fukushima accident, the commission and the european nuclear safety regulators group (ensreg) carried out stress tests which resulted in a series of recommendations and a suggestion to amend the nuclear safety directive. this proposal aims to amend, strengthen and supplement that directive by combining technical improvements and broader security considerations such as governance, transparency and preparedness and responsiveness on site. the s&d group (and the report) supported the provisions on periodic self-evaluations and peer reviews, six-monthly peer reviews of given areas, and the provision that the area of this first six-monthly evaluation will be decided within three years of the entry into force of the directive.
in writing. ensuring tax equity across all income groups is not only a moral imperative; it is also the most economically sound way to ensure that taxes are collected and used to their fullest potential. without creating new taxation, this additional revenue for member states would allow for new investment in job creation, growth-enhancing programmes and infrastructure. at a time when europe is still reeling from the consequences of the crisis, we cannot afford to remain idle. in the context of the union's continuing efforts to close the existing tax loopholes arising from the exploitation of differences between member states' tax systems, double non-taxation, as well as extreme forms of under-taxation, deprive member states of significant revenues and foster conditions of unfair competition between undertakings operating within the single market. in the interests of fairness and transparency, as well as competition and economic efficiency, the union must do its utmost to rectify its fiscal shortfall rapidly.
in writing. the stockholm programme aims to strengthen the area of justice, freedom and security through actions that focus on the interests and needs of citizens. the mid-term review of this programme should provide a basis for addressing future challenges in the area of justice, freedom and security. despite the progress made since the launch of this programme in 2010, the implementation of certain chapters should be strengthened. i am, for example, in favour of strengthening the promotion of citizens. moreover, greater attention should be paid to the special situation of vulnerable groups such as the roma. i would also like to reiterate my concern about the mass surveillance of eu citizens. finally, i would like to welcome the union's accession to the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. this should ensure an additional level of protection for citizens and persons for whom the union is responsible, in particular in the context of the area of freedom, security and justice. i therefore urge all the parties concerned to ratify the convention as soon as possible.
in writing. the stockholm programme is a multiannual strategy (2009-2014) aimed at building a europe of freedom, security and justice. the european council adopted the stockholm programme in 2009, calling for a mid-term evaluation in 2012. the main point was to ensure the follow-up of this programme and the fact that it was no longer to be drawn up solely by the council but, in the spirit of the lisbon treaty, in the framework of a joint exercise by the european parliament, the commission and the council. other key points included the assessment of criminal justice using a scoreboard and a reference to the copenhagen criteria which called for both candidate and current member states to respect common values. the s&d group has collected more than 77 signatures, together with the alliance of liberals and democrats (alde) and the greens, for an amendment on the need to regularly assess member states' compliance with the eu's fundamental values. the group intends to remain firm on this issue and not to allow the important achievements or references of the current legislature to be undermined.
in writing. the updating of the annexes to regulation (ec) no 428/2009 on dual-use goods, which include the lists of controlled goods and destinations, is currently under way in the ordinary legislative procedure. this proposal for post-lisbon alignment aims to streamline the procedures applied under the european export control system by introducing delegated acts for the regular updating of annex i and the consequent amendment of annex ii. following the adoption of parliament's first reading position on 23 october 2012, informal negotiations to reach an agreement at an early second reading were concluded on 17 december 2013. the text of the negotiations was approved by a very large majority in the international trade committee on 21 january 2014. after linguistic verification, the council adopted its position at first reading on 3[nbsp ]march[nbsp ]2014, confirming the agreement.
in writing. the aviation sector is highly international. i argue that a comprehensive approach to the problem of emissions from international aviation is the best way to ensure long-term sustainability. this is part of our efforts to achieve a future international agreement to control greenhouse gas emissions from aviation. at european level, it is already up to the member states to decide what to do with the proceeds of the auctioning of allowances. the objective is to use these revenues to combat climate change in the union and in third countries and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. we want to extend this system to aviation in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from this sector and thus contribute to the global fight against climate change.
in writing. the suspensive legislation on international aviation emissions (iaea) was a temporary derogation from the provisions of the directive on emission trading standards 2003/87/ec. this derogation was intended to facilitate international progress towards the adoption of a global market-based measure. the new commission proposal takes an airspace approach: it will apply from 2014, but only covers a certain proportion of emissions (no more than 12nm outside the european economic area) from flights arriving in and departing from non-eu countries. at the same time, the suspensive legislation remains in force for an additional year. in addition, flights within the european economic area are fully covered by the directive.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions. this is a matter on which we have already called the commission to account on a regular basis. i agree with the compromise amendments voted on today.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on payment services in the internal market, amending directives 2002/65/ec, 2013/36/eu and 2009/110/ec and repealing directive 2007/64/ec and share the choices of compromise amendments voted
in writing. new communication technologies are an essential tool for everyday life in the 21st century, whether in private or in the workplace. it is "a component of the public space where new forms of cross-border trade are emerging and opportunities for european businesses in the global digital economy are being created, alongside the development of an innovative market and socio-cultural exchanges". effective regulation of the single market for electronic communications would avoid the disruption that could result from a possible lax approach in this important area. by voting for this text, i support the protection of net neutrality which will support the global single telecoms market and is essential to create a safe environment for investment in this sector and thus allow for competitiveness, growth and job creation.
in writing. the european parliament voted today for the digital single market. the new european digital market should bring in 400 euros per person per year. it is highly employment-generating, will give consumers more information and security and will lower telephone charges by eliminating roaming charges. finally, the guarantee of a genuine net neutrality was obtained by a few votes. this is very good news for the european citizen. the amendments we have asked for and obtained have achieved this result, although this was very much disputed and the gap between the epp and other conservatives and the rest of parliament was once again immense.
in writing. today, electronic transactions are booming like never before. the establishment of a mechanism to harmonise electronic identification, signature and authentication in a uniform manner across the union seems to me to be essential to guarantee the security and safety of electronic transactions. this system would be based on a mutual recognition mechanism between member states. by supporting this resolution and the institutional trilogue agreement of february 2014, i am joining the overall approach to regulate and harmonise the functioning of the electronic market, which is increasingly following the conventional market. it is important to act without delay to prevent the negative effects that can arise from the existence of a multitude of systems such as fraud and cybercrime.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text. the european union does not have a comprehensive transnational and cross-sectoral framework for making electronic transactions secure, reliable and easy, covering electronic identification, authentication and trust services. the relevant union legislation in force, namely directive 1999/93/ec on a community framework for electronic signatures, as its name indicates, concerns only electronic signatures. the digital strategy for europe identifies the current obstacles to europe's digital development and proposes legislation on trust services and mutual recognition of electronic identification and authentication, establishing a clear legal framework to address the bottlenecks and lack of interoperability, develop digital citizenship and prevent cybercrime. legislation ensuring the mutual recognition of electronic identification and authentication within the union is also a key action in the single market act and the roadmap for stability and growth. the european parliament has repeatedly stressed the importance of the security of electronic services.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on specific requirements for the statutory audit of public-interest entities and i agree with the rapporteur on the content of the amendments.
in writing. the proposal has many practical advantages and is consistent with common sense. by unilaterally and temporarily lowering trade barriers (tariffs, quotas or tariff quotas) to imports from ukraine to the union to the level agreed bilaterally in the negotiations on the deep and comprehensive free trade area between the two parties, the proposal will help ukrainian companies to increase their export volumes and diversify their outlets. in other words, these unilateral preferences will allow ukraine to save up to several hundred million euros in the coming months. the commission estimates that the free trade area will save ukrainian exporters eur 487 million annually due to the reduction of import duties into the union, equivalent to 98,1% of these duties in market value. i voted against it, however, because of the lack of regard for social criteria!
in writing. the proposal has many practical advantages and is consistent with common sense. by unilaterally and temporarily lowering trade barriers (tariffs, quotas or tariff quotas) to imports from ukraine to the union to the level agreed bilaterally in the negotiations on the deep and comprehensive free trade area between the two parties, the proposal will help ukrainian companies to increase their export volumes and diversify their outlets. in other words, these unilateral preferences will allow ukraine to save up to several hundred million euros in the coming months. the commission estimates that the free trade area will save ukrainian exporters eur 487 million annually due to the reduction of import duties into the union, equivalent to 98,1% of these duties in market value. i voted against it, however, because of the lack of regard for social criteria!
in writing. it is time for parliament to speak out in favour of promoting a more coherent eu foreign policy, whether in institutional, financial or partnership terms with other countries and regional organisations. one of the major challenges facing the union is the effective coordination of its policies and their implementation at local level. i encourage greater cooperation between the commission and the european external action service (eeas). this cooperation should be achieved through the organisation of regular and institutionalised meetings between the commissioners responsible for external relations and other commissioners with competence in the different foreign affairs policies, such as development, trade, energy, environment, internal market and migration. i support the establishment of a comprehensive approach that would define an efficient response to multidimensional crises and promote human security worldwide.
in writing. significant geostrategic changes are also underway in other parts of the world, including the emergence of a multipolar international scene characterised by the presence of new actors with competing regional and global ambitions, and increasing interdependence. the rise of multidimensional and asymmetric threats; the reorientation of us security policy towards the asia-pacific region; the growing struggle for energy and resource security; the increasingly serious consequences of climate change; and a severe and protracted global economic and financial crisis from which no member state of the european union is immune. i would like to stress that in such a geopolitical climate, the european union must preserve and promote its values, interests and stability on the world stage, while protecting the security and prosperity of its citizens. this situation requires a new approach to shaping, in collaboration with our strategic partners, a new multipolar world order that is inclusive, credible, just, cooperative, based on respect for human rights, the rule of law and democracy, and aimed at achieving the settlement of disputes without resorting to armed conflict.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of the court of auditors' special reports in the context of the commission's 2012 discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. the european development funds (edf) are the main financial instruments of the union for development cooperation with the acp states. however, the edf still escapes the control of the european parliament, as it is not part of the general budget of the union. i therefore call once again for its inclusion in the european budget, in order to guarantee democratic control by the european parliament. we nevertheless welcome the court of auditors' opinion that the annual accounts of the eighth, ninth and tenth edfs present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the edfs as at 31 december 2012. we also call on the commission to redouble its efforts to address the shortcomings of its information system. we also regret that payments are affected by a significant error rate, due to shortcomings in the control and monitoring systems.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. electronic identification of cattle allows for more reliable data, which strengthens the traceability system and thus food safety. it also makes it possible to speed up the registration of cattle, to automate certain tasks and to ensure more efficient management of the herd. the development of this emerging technology should therefore be encouraged. the current legislation needs to be adapted, in particular to recognise electronic identification as an official means of identifying bovine animals. it is also essential to ensure the harmonization of technical standards in order to avoid a possible anarchic development of this method of identification and a lack of interoperability between national systems. in addition to the commission's proposals, we have asked that the information for those involved in the system of identification and registration of animals be provided 'at no cost to the recipient' in order to protect small farmers and other operators in the identification system, and that it be updated 'as often as necessary'.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council's note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union, the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the chairman to convey our decision.
in writing. it is incumbent on both the commission and the member states to make every effort to combat fraud, corruption and any other type of illegal activity affecting the financial interests of the union, in accordance with the provisions of the treaty on the functioning of the european union; recalls that close cooperation and coordination between the commission and the member states is essential to ensure effective protection of the union's financial interests and that it is therefore essential to strengthen such cooperation and coordination and to make them as effective as possible. i would remind you that the protection of the union's financial interests, both in terms of resources and expenditure, requires the same level of vigilance.
in writing. the geneva agreement of 24 november 2013 and the joint plan of action that followed it represent an important step towards securing iran's nuclear programme. i welcome this agreement and the opening up of the country since the election of hassan rouhani as president. however, this is only a first step towards a more complete solution. the european union must therefore remain cautious and ensure that iran respects its commitments on the nuclear programme. beyond the nuclear issue, we hope that improved eu-iran relations can pave the way for progress on international issues such as the crisis in syria. indeed, as an influential regional power, iran has a crucial role to play in syria. we therefore encourage iran to play a constructive role in international efforts to find a solution to the syrian crisis. the improvement of relations between the european union and iran could also contribute to the stabilisation of the situation in the middle east.
in writing. we invite the council, provided that substantial progress is made in the nuclear negotiations, to enter into discussions on concrete measures that could lead to an improvement in the eu-iran bilateral relationship, including a possible future contractual framework for such relations and the establishment of sectoral cooperation, for example on the development of civil society and the iranian private sector, as well as in the areas of the fight against narcotics (while ensuring that suspects receive a fair trial and are not sentenced to death), environmental cooperation, technology transfer, infrastructure development and planning, education and culture, child protection and health, and joint initiatives to promote and protect human rights. i am concerned about the possible emergence of infectious diseases such as polio and measles, especially among children. we also call on the union to facilitate access to useful medicines which are difficult to obtain because of sanctions.
mr president, you are basing your argument on a letter from mr denolf, chairman of the olaf monitoring committee. the chairman of the supervisory committee does indeed ask for confidentiality of these documents. but the confidentiality of these documents has always been interpreted in a broader sense than simply to allow them to be seen by the chairmen of the political groups, the president of the european parliament and the chairman of the committee on budgetary control. in the past we have had a similar case involving eurostat, with court cases in luxembourg and in france. the whole committee on budgetary control was then able to inspect these documents under the rule of confidentiality under the framework agreement between parliament, the council and the commission. you refused to do so, and that is why we are critical of the whole thing. in this, mr president, you are both judge and party. the discharge is given to the president of the european parliament and you decide that a certain part cannot be put to the vote. i would like to point out that it is not the group chairmen who are in charge of this parliament, but the plenary, the 766 members of this parliament. so i ask you to put the text of paragraph 47 to the vote and then the house can decide wisely whether or not this is the correct text.
mr president, the rapporteur has no problem with the vote being taken on thursday, because it is a question of translation.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, in the absence of our rapporteur, mr carlo fidanza, i would like to thank his colleagues who have contributed to this dossier. we also want to thank the staff of the commission and the council for reaching agreement at first reading. of course, as so often, the council was not very ambitious in this outcome, but we can live with the result. it is almost symptomatic to talk about alternative fuels at the end of the legislative period, because it was one of the cornerstones when we said at the beginning of this period with the white paper, among other things, that in transport these alternative fuels are one of the challenges, that we are of course not only supporting an alternative, but also an energy mix. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. minimum requirements for the construction of the infrastructure are provided. the countries must prepare a national policy framework and submit it here no later than 24 months after the publication of this directive. cross-border coverage should also be announced. it is well known that the specific features of alternative fuels, on the one hand, and the information provided to citizens, on the other, have led to the fact that very few people today are turning to these alternatives for fear of not having the infrastructure in border areas tomorrow and of having problems as a result. technical neutrality was also an important point for us. so we went in a two-phase rhythm. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states. this is one of the reasons why the proposal here is that there should be a charging station for ten electric vehicles. the fact that the core network at the charging stations is also to be provided for and that this will have to be particularly reviewed from 2025 onwards is self-evident, because this also leads to the priorities of the trans-european networks as a whole. as far as liquefied natural gas is concerned, we are also proposing a two-stage approach. the commission will also assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of natural resources. we know that this is of course also associated with certain costs and that a realistic approach should be taken accordingly. but we also know the other challenge, especially in this area, that there is a really high expectation of alternative fuels. we therefore think it is very good that we are making the transeuropean networks a binding priority in the existing core network and also in the work here tomorrow. in conclusion, i would like to remind you that this proposal not only addresses the issue of dependence on oil for up to 90% of transport, but also the issue of europe's energy dependence - 84% of which is imported - but also suggests concrete alternatives. the third important point is the reduction of the environmental impact of transport and the corresponding improvement in the quality of life in urban areas, where it is proved that up to 80% of people will live in the next ten or fifteen years. and last but not least, we must not forget that in this area too we must secure europe's position as the research and development site, and that every action and decision in this area also strengthens the technology we support and the european site. in that sense we can agree with the result. as i said at the beginning, it is not as ambitious as we had hoped, but we can consider it a good result.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for your observations. it is important that you vote tomorrow in favour of this proposal. the directive on the deployment of alternative fuels infrastructure will have a decisive impact on how we see transport. new technologies will open up new horizons and opportunities for the european automotive and transport industry within europe and on the global market. it is vitally important for the good health of our economy. of course, our work does not stop here. it has only just started. the commission will closely monitor how member states implement this directive. if appropriate, we will progress to an action plan on its implementation and review. of course, i must also say that this directive cannot cover all issues. we have other documents and other decisions; for instance, how to promote sustainable urban mobility, and we even have an abbreviation: sumps – sustainable urban mobility plans. we promote it and encourage member states to develop public transport and sustainable urban mobility. however, this directive cannot cover all issues; it is about clean power in transport. the commission would like to thank the outgoing parliament for all its work and contribution in making transport cleaner, more efficient and less dependent on oil.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: - mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to conclude by thanking mr ertug and mrs meissner in particular for the work they have done in the final part of the report, on behalf of the rapporteur. i would simply say to the other member that i am not going to answer her questions on behalf of mr fidanza. the most important thing would be to be present at the work of the committee, so that you or your colleagues could put your questions there. the commissioner has stressed that security is one of the most important aspects. if i take belgium as an example, out of the 5 million cars in the country, less than 1% are using alternative fuels, and according to a survey, 60% of people think it is too expensive and 40% do not do it for safety reasons, because they do not know whether the technology is the same across the borders and whether there are enough filling stations. so our approach here is correct, and we want to emphasize that. i also hope that tomorrow the member states will move a little faster than they wanted to undertake in the agreement. the last point is research. it has just been stressed that europe needs this location and must continue to consolidate this location. transport and mobility in particular are a huge challenge, especially in terms of alternative fuels, not just in terms of fuels but in terms of technology as a whole. in conclusion, i would like to say that dependence is of course an important issue for us. yesterday oil, tomorrow gas, so this issue is also very important from the global political point of view. i would therefore like to thank you for the proposal and all those who have contributed to the fact that we will hopefully have a positive vote tomorrow.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, the proposal being debated today has multiple benefits. it encourages the use of low-carbon propulsion technologies and makes trucks more aerodynamic. it is good for vulnerable road users, because a different cabin design will improve drivers’ vision. it will also help european lorry manufacturers to sell the truck of the future in the global market. it will make road transport greener and safer. the commission would like to thank the rapporteur, mr leichtfried, and the shadow rapporteurs for the progress they have made. many of the amendments voted by committee clarify or strengthen the proposal. the commission welcomes these amendments. the commission takes note of the compromise reached on the cross-border traffic of longer vehicles. there are a number of amendments where the commission has concerns. the first i want to mention is the 50 cm limit imposed for rear devices. this is already allowed today, under the type-approval legislation. however, aerodynamic performance improves continuously up to two metres. keeping the 50 cm limit means forgoing important benefits in terms of lower emissions and fuel consumption. another amendment makes new cabin designs mandatory seven years after the directive has entered into force. this is contrary to the current approach, which is to promote more aerodynamic vehicles without mandating a specific design. the commission also has reservations regarding the use of the term ‘combined transport’ instead of ‘intermodal transport’. it only applies to transport between eu member states, whereas 45-foot containers are increasingly used in ocean-going transport. in addition, on-board weighing systems should not be made mandatory. member states which have invested in infrastructure for weighing moving vehicles should be allowed to continue this method. all in all, the commission appreciates the progress made on most of the amendments. this forms a very good basis for advancing the file under the new parliament. i look forward to the debate.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not mr sarvamaa is reportedly still on the bus, so i shall be happy to take over his role here. there are some colleagues who have not been working since the first minute, and others who have been working until the last, and we are among them. i would like to thank all the colleagues who have helped to make the best of this dossier. we have not been and still are not in agreement. we've signed compromises to make the whole dossier move forward. we must not forget that the purpose of weights and measures was primarily to improve safety and also to improve aerodynamics, and thus to have a partial positive impact on consumers and the environment. the fact that the whole subject was then, of course, very much about this crossborder transport for larger lorries is perhaps understandable in view of the proximity of certain elections, including the european elections. but it would have been a pity if we had missed any good developments in this area. so i see the result at this point with a laughing eye where we have found good compromises for the technology, and with a tearful eye where we have not found them. because i think that if a truck has to cross a border with almost nothing to make a four tonne difference, that's not the best sign for the environment either. the commission has already completed part of the task it has now been given: this study on larger lorries. she had the same problem as many of her colleagues, that she did not agree with the results of the study. but you can't keep doing studies until you like the results. so we're hoping that the next result of the study will be maybe a little bit more what you've been expecting. but we must not question the study as such, because i think one thing is clear: we will not make the railway more efficient by slowing down the road. i also believe that what we are proposing here is not a breakdown of the railway, but an improvement in the efficiency of the road. we will not agree on that in future either, that is part of the debate. i am grateful for the frank debate we have had - even with differences of opinion - and for the compromises we have found.
on behalf of the s&d group, i agree with what my colleague and rapporteur, jörg leichtfried, has said about the role of parliament. i would remind you that the commission first tried, somewhat "in a hurry", to allow the crossborder transport of megatransporters by means of a reinterpretation of the existing rules. we have been very insistent that this should be regulated by legislation and that legislation should be brought to light in a timely manner and with the knowledge of the facts. my group - and this is no secret - is not in favour of extending the use of megatrucks. we believe that this is contrary to the objectives which the european commission itself has set out in its white paper on transport, namely to promote long-distance transport mainly by means of sustainable modes of transport such as rail and inland waterway. we are prepared to debate this and we will look at the impact assessments that follow with the necessary attention and then we as a parliament will have to cut the knots. the proposal to adapt the weights and measures to new technological developments is of course positive, so that lorries consume less fuel, emit less co2 and are safer, protect vulnerable road users better and increase driver comfort. this section, mr rapporteur, and the shadow rapporteurs who have worked on it, is clearly a step forward and should encourage the sector to finally bring a more aerodynamic model to the market and perhaps thereby to take over markets outside europe as well. on the whole, we have a good proposal here and we as a group will support it fully. [ the speaker will answer a 'blue card' question in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.]
"blue card" question. what is it? i have a question for mr el khadraoui. very recently, the flemish government, of which his party is a part, has started a pilot project on ecocombs: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact of the use of road transport is taken into account. the government has started this pilot project, and i'm waiting for the results. the netherlands is also carrying out a pilot project of this kind and germany is also carrying out a pilot project of this kind. i think it would be a logical question to ask mr el khadraoui: if the pilot project in flanders proves successful, will these trucks stop at the dutch and german borders? or is mr el khadraoui prepared to continue the success of that pilot project there and also to allow crossborder transport, as the flemish government, of which his party is a part, is seeking to do?
"blue card" is the answer. thank you for asking. i am not a big fan of this pilot project myself, but we have accepted that it will take place. it's good to evaluate the project thoroughly. but in fact it is a status quo with respect to the current european rules. you know that pilot projects can, should and will continue to be possible. that does not change, but we do not want to encourage it across borders. so let us do that pilot project in flanders, let us evaluate it and let us, in the meantime, have a better debate at european level and then, with impact studies and so on, see what the overall effect is on the transport system and on other matters such as infrastructure costs, road safety and so on. that should be our main concern.
we all know that transport will only increase in size in the future. we have a vested interest in ensuring that all the different modes of transport can operate and be used in an optimum way. the commission's proposal to adapt the aerodynamics and the dimensions and weights of vehicles and lorries was a good one. only the only debate everyone's focusing on right now is the story of the ecocombs. i therefore regret that we have not been able to reach a compromise which would be the logical one. let member states decide whether or not they want to allow those ecocombs and then countries that border each other just allow cross-border transport. it's just logic itself! so it is incomprehensible to me why there are people in this parliament who are against it. a second, perhaps less controversial, subject is also the story of the 44 tons. in the benelux, in france, it is possible for 44 tonnes to be moved around, but it seems that cross-border transport is not possible. and there are two amendments on that tabled by my colleagues and i ask to support them ... (the president cut off the speaker)
i would prefer to concentrate on the 'official controls' aspect. it is essential that controls be carried out independently and that the final control be carried out by the public authorities. self-control is a good thing, it may be encouraged in the sector, but it is the government's final task to provide a stick behind the door. let us look back at the past. almost every food scandal has arisen where either the government was poorly organized, or where official controls were subject to a logic of greed and profit at all costs, or where commercial interests were considered more important than the interests of public health. strong and independent government oversight is crucial. the role of the official veterinarian is also crucial in the meat sector. checks, if any, by technicians shall be carried out under his or her authority. finally, i regret that the commission's good proposal, which gave member states the possibility of calling out the wrongdoer, has been watered down. i think this is the only flaw in the excellent report drawn up under the leadership of mr perelló rodríguez. thank you for that.
the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 15 april 2014, at 6 p.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by mr roberto gualtieri, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the amendment of the interinstitutional agreement on the transparency register (2014/2010(aci)) (a7-0258/2014).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 15 april 2014, at 12 noon.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on:- the report by anthea mcintyre, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on 'how can the european union help create an enabling environment for businesses, corporations and start-ups to create jobs?' (2013/2176(ini)) (a7-0101/2014), and- the question with request for an oral reply to the commission 'top 10' consultation process and reduction of burdens on smes by eu regulation' by paul rübig, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o000049/2014 - brs7-0118/2014) (2013/2711(p)).
this is a particularly timely debate, because we all know how important smes are to our economy. and if you talk to a lot of business leaders or people who want to start, there are a few things that come up all the time. we can send some of these things from the european parliament. we shall have to delegate other matters to the member states. one of the most important things is to provide adequate training, not only for people who want to start their own businesses, but also for people who need to be employed by those smes. today we are faced in europe with a very high level of youth unemployment, and yet we see that there are still vacancies in various smes. so finding a better match on the labour market seems to me to be one of the priorities for europe and for our member states. secondly, there is everything to do with the regulations we are making here in the european parliament. we must sometimes consider the impact of these regulations on smes. the european commission is developing good initiatives to assess whether the impact of such regulations on small businesses is adequate or not and whether they need to be adjusted. the last point is all that has to do with financing. if companies are to grow, they must also be adequately financed, not only through banks but also through the capital markets. this will need to be addressed in the coming years to ensure that bank financing is restored and that other forms of financing are also made available to smes. my report on improving financing for smes is an attempt to do that.
for the greens/efa group madam president, "never again!" how many times have we heard those words? never again should the taxpayer be forced to bail out a failing bank. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial institutions are able to compete with the banks of other member states. the texts to be adopted today are undoubtedly a step forward in this respect. clearly, the owners, shareholders and creditors of the banks will be fined much sooner than the taxpayer. but i cannot help but be surprised that during these negotiations the member states, supported by the european central bank, supported by part of the european commission and in particular the services of mr rehn, who, according to the latest news, is a liberal, fought to insert into these texts a clause called preventive recapitalisation, which would allow the states to come to the rescue of their failing banks before they are really in a state of failure. in other words, to remedy the fact that the markets would no longer trust such a bank, by coming to its rescue. i am surprised at this attitude because it means that we will not recapitalise unless we do so soon enough. i think that's unacceptable. secondly, it is no longer possible for banks to be transnational when they live and become national again when they die. the text of the mrv also makes progress in this area, in the sense that we are moving towards greater federalisation of crisis management. but once again, the big banks will be managed [n] when in trouble by a consortium of states and not by the european commission. finally, mr barnier, my only regret about your action is that the main text, which was supposed to put an end to the existence of the banks deemed 'too big to fail', arrived too late, so that during this parliamentary term it could not be dealt with by this parliament. banks that are considered too big to fail should simply not exist! the text you have tabled goes in that direction and i regret that we have not been able to take it up this time.
who would have thought at the start of this parliamentary term that we would be putting the finishing touches to a real banking union, with a common supervisory and settlement mechanism and a uniform guarantee scheme for savers? we have done what we set out to do and we can be proud of our work. our sustained efforts, aimed at concrete results through the implementation of an ambitious but feasible building plan, have really helped europe to move forward. by working courageously together in this house, but also with the council and the european commission, and in particular with commissioner barnier and his team, we are achieving more than those who promised miracles or those who want to send europe into the desert as a scapegoat. we are proud of our success in opposing excessive national reflexes, in mechanisms that help to break vicious circles, in the nature of the banking union which is open to countries outside the euro zone and in the promotion of a secure financial system where, if it still fails, a bank can be wound up in one weekend according to legally secure and fair rules and without the savers and taxpayers having to bear the brunt of it. but of course, we are particularly proud of the fact that all these new rules also give us a new perspective that the banking sector can do what it should do, namely, to ensure that it plays a role in the real economy, so that we can get back to sustainable growth and create jobs in the private sector. i just want to thank everyone for their cooperation. it is by working together that we can achieve these results and it is also by working together in europe that we will be strong in the world.
in writing. we want to avoid the citizen having to pay the bill again. in the event of the bankruptcy of his european bank, he will be able to recover up to 100[nbsp ]000 euros of his savings within 7 days. on the other hand, it is not the citizen but the shareholders and creditors who will bear the first losses of their bank. with this text, as of 1 january 2016, it is first the shareholders and creditors who will assume the losses of their bank. we have improved the bank resolution process, which is the orderly restructuring and liquidation of a bank, in a preventive manner, when it is on the verge of bankruptcy. this will avoid the 'bankrise' as a 'systemic' impact on the rest of the economy. in the event of bankruptcy, the european citizen can recover up to €100,000 of his savings within 7 days. the deposit protection system is finally harmonized.
mr president, i would like to return to one aspect of this text, the famous 'made in'. we are well aware, and others have said it before me, that this is not a perfect tracing instrument as it appears in this text. it may not be the best place in a text on product safety to work on 'made in' either, but i remain firmly convinced that we must move forward on this subject and that it is extremely important. it is a valuable tool for relocating our economy and therefore, from a strictly ecological point of view, it is extremely important. it is also very important for consumers, to give them a means, a tool to make their consumer choice. and it is precisely because it is blocked in the council and because it is difficult that we must keep this 'made in' in the text and reject the amendment which seeks to remove it. it is a signal to the commission, to your successor, that we must move forward on this matter. it is also a signal, if we remember it, that we can also give to the council to make this 'made in' a real instrument for relocating and reviving the economy in europe. i think this is an opportunity and i hope that many of us will seize it.
in writing. the banking union became a reality this afternoon with the vote on three texts essential for the stability of the euro area: a single resolution mechanism in the event of bank failures, a framework for managing bank failures and a deposit guarantee scheme. measures that complement the single supervisory mechanism, adopted in september 2013, giving the european central bank (ecb) responsibility for supervising banks in the euro area. at present, 128 establishments are supervised. finally, the creation of a single fund is excellent news, a fund which banks have been able to raise to avoid having to resort to public money for their "rescue", as was sometimes done during the crisis. the depositors' savings will be even more protected, even beyond the legal protection threshold of eur 100000. the european union has shown its resolve in this long period of crisis: no, the euro zone has not collapsed! but the bailout of the banking sector came at a price: 26% of european gdp was absorbed by this task. banks now have to provide foreign exchange and facilitate access to credit and finance for individuals and entrepreneurs creating growth and jobs.
in writing. we wanted to avoid the citizen having to pay the bill again. in the event of the bankruptcy of his european bank, he will be able to recover up to 100[nbsp ]000 euros of his savings within 7 days. on the other hand, it is not the citizen but the shareholders and creditors who will bear the first losses of their bank. finally, it is not the citizen but the banks who will have to come together to help the institutions in difficulty. we remember that during the financial crisis, it was the states and the taxpayers who bailed out the banks. with the banking union voted on today, it is the banks who will bear their losses. a step towards a fairer europe
in writing. the need for regulation and optimisation has been particularly acute as a result of the crisis. the public service is under considerable financial pressure and may therefore no longer be able to fulfil its mission of providing the universal service to disadvantaged groups, or only to a more limited extent. their function as social stabilisers is also threatened, which reduces the level of social inclusion. the report should help, on the basis of these challenges, to describe factors limiting universal access to public services and to examine how to take consumer needs into account in an appropriate manner. in addition to the principles of availability, financial accessibility and continuity, the development of sectoral action programmes should also be encouraged. it is also necessary to formulate guidelines on how to organise universal access in accordance with fundamental rights.
in writing. the commission's proposed directive aims to prepare the establishment of a committee of experts representing the eu member states and those of the central commission for navigation on the rhine (ccnr), other interested international organisations and stakeholders in the inland waterway sector. the commission services and the ccnr secretariat have signed an administrative protocol providing for the establishment of the european committee for the development of technical standards in inland navigation (ceste committee). this committee should develop and maintain technical standards to which the european union and the ccnr could refer in their respective regulations. the commission intends to use these standards to revise the technical annexes to the directive.
in writing. the commission authorities responsible for the investigation must be able to access the relevant documents on direct request from economic operators. the recent introduction of the electronic customs system means that import documents are now kept by economic operators and not by national authorities. this delayed the investigation and wasted time, as the commission had to send its request for supporting documents to the national authorities, which were often unable to reply within the time limit because of lack of time or staff. we therefore suggest that the commission should have direct access to economic operators, subject to prior notification to the national authorities, who have two weeks to decide. this time limit avoids the need to repeat requests to economic operators in the event that the member state wishes to take [nbsp]or has already taken [nbsp]the initiative to require the economic operator to send the documents. it also aims to prevent the offender from taking advantage of the rules of each member state on the limitation of legal proceedings.
in writing. i voted in favour of the amended proposal for a european parliament and council directive laying down a procedure for the provision of information in the field of technical regulations and rules on information society services.
in writing. the act of accession of croatia of 2011 introduced a simplified system for croatia's accession to the arbitration convention. pursuant to article 3 (4) of that act of accession, croatia accedes to the convention and to all protocols amending it. in accordance with article 3 (5), the council shall adopt a decision to determine the date of entry into force of the arbitration convention in croatia, by which that country shall have made all the adaptations required by the arbitration convention. to this end, the council shall act on a recommendation from the commission, after consulting the european parliament. as the proposed decision implements the mandate contained in the 2011 accession treaty, the rapporteur fully endorses the commission's recommendation and strongly hopes that croatia's accession to the arbitration convention and related instruments will be completed as soon as possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of the commission's text. openness and transparency should not, however, be limited to the internal operations and governance procedures of the joint undertaking. the rapporteur has introduced several amendments to strengthen these principles, also with regard to the involvement of partners in shift2rail through competitive calls for proposals.
in writing. the committee on legal affairs recommends, after considering the arguments both for and against the defence of the member's immunity, that the european parliament uphold the parliamentary immunity of alexander mirsky. the committee on legal affairs also recommends that the commission, as guardian of the treaties and the only body competent to initiate infringement proceedings, intervene with the latvian authorities in order to ensure that primary union law, in particular article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, is applied and, if necessary, that it initiates an infringement procedure under article 258 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. the fund's intervention is a kind of response to the crisis in order to revive the economy in the affected region by developing sustainable solutions such as hiring incentives or financing of vocational training. this aid was necessary and we commend italy for its swift response to this matter.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade. in accordance with the provisions of article 12 of regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 laying down the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 and article 12 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006, the annual allocation of the european globalisation adjustment fund may not exceed eur 150 000 000 (2011 prices). the necessary amounts shall be entered in the general budget of the european union as a provision.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund is a useful tool to provide rapid assistance to workers made redundant when globalisation causes redundancies, in particular following a change in world trade. in the automobile sector, the arrival of asian companies has increased competition and unfortunately led to job losses. i welcome the action of the fund but regret the 22 months of silence by the commission before granting this aid which is so essential for spanish workers.
in writing. the spanish authorities explain that the nuts iii region of jaén, where the santana group is established, is facing major difficulties. the gross regional product (gdp) per capita of the province is 69.8% of the eu average. the employment rate for people aged 16 to 64 decreased from 56.1% in 2007 to 48.8% in 2011, and the number of people in employment fell from 235,767 to 209,047. during the same period, the unemployment rate increased from 13 to 27.9 percent (from 21.13 to 48.6 percent for those under 25) and the absolute number of unemployed increased from 35 to 81.153. so we help them.
in writing. savers no longer have to contribute in the event of bank failure. that is the strong and fair message sent this afternoon by the european parliament with the adoption of the new directive on deposit guarantee schemes. the creation of a single fund is therefore excellent news: it will be enriched by the banks in order to avoid the need for public money. this will also increase the protection of depositors' savings, even if the legal protection threshold is eur 100 000. i would like to highlight some other real advances: the principle of contributions based on the risk profiles of the banking institution is enshrined; the repayment periods in the event of insolvency are increased from the current 20 working days to no later than seven working days in 2023; member states will also have to protect for a limited period of time (between 3 and 12 months) large amounts above the guarantee level of eur 100 000 arising in particular from the sale of private immovable property, insurance benefits, divorce. these are the "new rights" for savers, who must at the same time be able to benefit from easier access to bank loans. this is the next political battle to be fought!
in writing. the council's position at first reading is in line with the agreement reached in the trilogues, and we recommend that the committee adopt it without further amendments. deposit guarantee schemes, in addition to their primary function of protecting depositors, are also essential for the stability of the financial system, in particular in times of crisis. if customers lose confidence in their credit institution and at the same time attempt to withdraw their deposits, a phenomenon known as a bank run, this can not only lead to the collapse of an already unstable institution, but can also, due to a widespread loss of confidence, spread to other credit institutions and even to other states. no credit institution can hold the extremely high amount of liquidity required to guarantee deposits. the european commission therefore presented on 12[nbsp ]july[nbsp ]2010 a proposal for a revision of the deposit guarantee schemes directive. the commission considered that the completion of a common internal market required the remedying of excessive delays in the repayment of depositors' claims in the event of insolvency and of the significant differences in the financial resources of guarantee schemes between member states.
in writing. we believe that a stable policy framework with binding targets is essential to attract private investment for infrastructure development, while incentives and public support will be essential in the first instance to give a boost to the use of alternative fuels. union funding can also play a significant role in helping member states to achieve the objectives of the proposed directive. the rapporteur has incorporated into his draft report a number of amendments whose general objective is to supplement the provisions contained in the commission proposal and to broaden its objectives. in preparing this report, your rapporteur has consulted widely with all interested parties and has also taken into account the conclusions of the public hearing organised by the committee on transport and tourism on 18 june 2013. the opinions of the european economic and social committee and of the committee of the regions have also been duly taken into account.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 96/53/ec of 25[nbsp ]july[nbsp ]1996 fixing for certain road vehicles circulating within the community the maximum authorised dimensions in national and international traffic and the maximum authorised weights in international traffic.
in writing. - i very much welcome this report, which provides for a common european framework for the resolution of banks and which significantly reduces the use of taxpayers' or depositors' money. in the context of the financial crisis, the situation of fragile or failing credit institutions has led member states to resort to taxpayers' money to rescue banks. this recourse is now minimised by a so-called priority of claims, by first involving the shareholders, then the bondholders of an institution and then the large depositors and, if this is not sufficient, by requiring the intervention of national resolution systems and resolution funds. the current state guarantee for all bank deposits up to eur 100 000 is being strengthened by requiring each country to set up its own deposit guarantee fund in order to be able to comply with the state guarantee. these new rules on banking union will provide additional protection for eu citizens' deposits, keep the cost to taxpayers as low as possible and, above all, prevent further destabilisation of financial markets.
in writing. the financial crisis that has shaken europe has highlighted the need for stricter and more coherent rules for the entire financial sector. while a number of important measures have already been taken, such as the establishment of three financial supervisory bodies, efforts to better regulate the financial sector should be continued. one of the issues currently under discussion concerns the present proposal for a directive establishing a framework for the recovery and resolution of the insolvency of credit institutions and investment firms. from a budgetary point of view, it is essential that the union institutions and the member states support this new framework in the best possible way. therefore, it is necessary not only to establish new rules but also to provide sufficient human and financial resources for the implementation of the new framework.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2009/65/ec on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (ucits) as regards depositary functions, remuneration policies and sanctions.
in writing. for most people today, life without a bank account would be almost unimaginable. the world bank estimates that some 58 million eu citizens do not have a bank account. many people have difficulty opening a bank. banks refuse to accept loans for various reasons. in addition, insolvency may be a reason for banks to refuse a consumer requesting access to a basic payment account. in addition, some residents of the union who are highly mobile due to their employment or activity as students, seasonal or posted workers, or employees of small or medium-sized enterprises, and who are unable to provide proof of a permanent address in the member state where the payment service provider is established, may have difficulties in opening a bank account. ensuring mobility within the european union must remain a common objective of the member states. access to a bank account, as a universal right for all citizens of the european union, especially for vulnerable groups, is a crucial contribution to this objective.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on key information documents for investment products.
in writing. the arguments put forward by the general court are convincing and the need to appoint additional judges is established. it is also essential that the general court be able to give judgment within a reasonable time. the major problem, however, is the appointment of judges. this question has already caused delays in the first attempt. in this report, your rapporteur makes a concrete proposal which does not take account of the nationality of the additional judges. a national approach to the filling of posts cannot undermine the rule of law in the european union. we have, however, suggested that parliament should be open to compromise proposals from the council or the court of justice, since we know that there is an urgent need to increase the number of judges. any agreement is better than any further delay. the current length of court proceedings risks breaches of the european convention on human rights.
in writing. today, only around 0,7% of vehicles in the union are equipped with a private ecall system, which justifies the mandatory introduction of ecall. this service must be free, public and available to all drivers. in the application of this service, we have paid particular attention to the use to be made of the data collected. in this regard, the deployment of the ecall system should be preceded by an awareness-raising campaign to explain to union citizens the benefits of this new system and the guarantees it offers in terms of data protection.
in writing. ecall is activated automatically as soon as the on-board sensors detect a major accident. the system then dials the european emergency number 112, establishes a telephone link with the appropriate emergency call centre and transmits the details of the accident to the emergency services, including the time of the accident, the exact position of the vehicle involved and the direction taken by the vehicle. the ecall system shall be activated by the driver, the driver's assistant and the driver's representative. according to the commission, an ecall on 112 can reduce the time taken to respond to an emergency by 40% in urban areas and by 50% in rural areas
in writing. a high-quality digital infrastructure is the foundation on which virtually all sectors of a modern and innovative economy and society are built, in which broadband infrastructure is a key element of global competitiveness and a pillar of the european digital single market. the rapporteur therefore supports the objective of the regulation under consideration, which is to reduce the cost of deploying high and very high speed electronic communications networks by providing tools for more cost-effective deployment of new physical infrastructure, reducing administrative constraints, using existing infrastructure jointly and harmonising civil engineering works. the lack of synergies between different operators and owners of physical infrastructure, as well as the high number of local regulations to which operators must comply, have led to increased costs, constraints and delays in obtaining authorisations and in deploying and upgrading broadband electronic communications networks.
in writing. a well-structured policy with objectives that can be achieved in the short or medium term would be an asset for a sector with great potential. the security of the legal framework is certainly a prerequisite for attracting or stimulating investment in the sector and ensuring its long-term growth. we therefore call on the commission to give life to naiades ii and to take concrete measures as soon as possible which take account of the particularities of a sector which is mainly made up of smes.
in writing. the proposal eliminates national co-financing of promotion and information measures, which implies a substantial increase in the operators' contributions, thus hampering the participation of the most vulnerable enterprises in the information and promotion campaigns. the rapporteur has collected a large number of opinions against the abolition of national co-financing, even though it has always been voluntary. this report takes account of general sentiment, including also an increase in european co-financing in certain cases, such as the financing of measures likely to help restore normal market conditions after the outbreak of the agricultural crisis. the extension of the list of products eligible is another plausible aspect of the european commission's proposal, as it does not make sense at present to limit the actions to a very limited number of products, given the intention expressed by the european union executive to quadruple the funds for these campaigns by 2020.
in writing. ict solutions use a large amount of personal data and profiles, including real-time communications, and therefore carry a high risk of data problems, security and privacy breaches. the data protection and privacy assessment of projects should be carried out within the framework of the programme in order to ensure a high level of protection and security, and the programme should impose privacy considerations from the design stage in each funded project.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the participation of the union in a research and development programme jointly undertaken by several member states to support small and medium-sized enterprises engaged in research activities
in writing. metrology, the science of measurement, is an essential part of the high-tech world in which we live. the general objective of the empir programme is to provide metrology solutions to support innovation and industrial competitiveness, as well as measurement technologies to address societal challenges such as health, environment and energy, including support for policy development and implementation. another important objective pursued by the proposal is to create an integrated european metrology research system with sufficient critical mass and active engagement at regional, national, european and international level. we welcome the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council submitted by the commission on the participation of the union in a european programme of innovation and research in metrology jointly undertaken by several member states, which is an important element of the 'investing in innovation' package under horizon 2020.
in writing. we support the overall objective of edctp-ii, which is to accelerate the clinical development of effective, safe and affordable medical interventions to combat poverty-related diseases. it recognises the need to work in partnership with developing countries, such as those in sub-saharan africa, to combat the negative impact of these diseases, which affect one billion people and cause too many deaths. it is also aware of the consequences of the spread of these diseases, both globally and in europe in particular, where many of these diseases have been eradicated.
in writing. according to the commission proposal, the payment or reimbursement of the costs of implementing the oecd borne by the banks is governed by the provisions of national law (article 30 (1)). in view of the diversity of national legal systems, such a provision may lead to discrimination for certain banks, for which payment or reimbursement is not provided. it is undeniable that the proposed procedure requires human and economic resources, the cost of which cannot be ignored in view of the fact that the interest to be safeguarded is not public but private. the commission therefore considers that article 30 should include explicit and harmonised provisions regarding the payment of fees incurred by banks in implementing the oecd.
in writing. we need to address the issue of country-by-country reporting obligations in this legislative proposal with a judicious and meticulous approach to maximize the benefits and mitigate the risks. the commission has also proposed to amend the rules on the annual accounts of the european investment bank (eib) and the european investment fund (eif) in order to ensure that the financial statements of the european investment bank (eib) and the european investment bank (eib) are consistent with the principles of sound financial management and sound financial management.
in writing. we believe that the harmonisation of procedures will lead to an overall improvement in the management of immigration and hope that the regulation of highly skilled legal immigration will also help to activate mechanisms for cooperation that will promote concrete and effective joint action.
in writing. given the specific nature of aeronautical research, which is strongly defined by its linear supply structures, we believe that a 'single beneficiary clause' is justified. i therefore approve the draft delegated act.
in writing. i would like to point out that this joint undertaking will be implemented in accordance with the participation rules of horizon 2020, with one exception: in order to provide optimal leverage for private investment, the bio-industries joint undertaking will limit union funding for actions in the bio-industries sector other than innovation actions to only the following types of participants: smes; secondary and higher education institutions; non-profit legal entities, including those for which research and technological development is part of their main objectives; the jrc and international organisations of european interest.
in writing. the commission's proposal on the extension of the sesar joint undertaking until 2024 as an important part of the 'innovation investment package' under horizon 2020 is welcomed. this joint undertaking will continue the coordinated approach to research and innovation in air traffic management (atm) within the framework of the single european sky (ses).
in writing. we tabled amendments to strengthen the transparency and accountability of the imi joint undertaking's governance structure and decision-making processes, with the aim of reaffirming the legitimacy of the joint undertaking and ensuring that all bodies have adequate means to fulfil their responsibilities in a particularly sensitive area, where the public interest must be the driving force behind all imi actions.
in writing. horizon 2020 is well placed to build on the success of the 7th framework programme and to continue to support european research by investing public funds and mobilising private investment in order to accelerate the creation of a genuine european research area. research promotes innovation in all areas of life and underpins a variety of cross-cutting union policies. sound investment should accelerate the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy's objectives of making the european union a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy
in writing. the experience of phc 1 shows that it is possible to address some challenges to the extent of turning them into opportunities for job creation, growth and innovation in the union, through the joint effort and commitment of the public and private parties and the existence of a suitable instrument for such cooperation. pch techniques can offer a number of long-term, clean and sustainable european solutions to the many societal challenges, but they still face multiple obstacles to effective research and innovation and large-scale deployment. the design and application of appropriate regulatory and business mechanisms, and a clear commitment to a longer term policy, are essential to bring these technologies to market and to reap the greatest benefits in the future.
in the case of the commission, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transparency of the register is maintained. at the same time, this is not enough: the register is still not a mandatory step. that is why we must urge the commission to take further steps. but we can't overdo it either. the fact that local authorities have to register now is a bridge too far. the registry needs to focus on real lobbyists. these governments can hardly be described as 'lobbyists'. local authorities are the level of government closest to the citizen and play a vital role in the european union. therefore, they should be adequately involved in the decision-making process and their right to consultation and participation should not be restricted. finally, the fact that the european parliament is currently the only eu institution to refuse to be audited by transparency international, according to international media reports, is rather cynical in this context.
in writing. registration in the transparency register is currently on a voluntary basis. we deplore this situation and encourage the establishment of a compulsory register. transparency is only a means to an end, which is to achieve regulation of lobbying in the european institutions. however, this is a crucial first step in holding to account any organisation or individual engaged in lobbying activities in the european institutions. the text should make it possible to make essential amendments to the interinstitutional agreement on the transparency register. i therefore encourage incentives to improve the benefits of participation in the transparency register and to encourage organisations not yet listed to register.
in writing. such a report should not only reflect the changes to the interinstitutional agreement but also, inter alia, seek a viable and generally accepted definition of legal terms that remain undefined, such as 'representatives of interests' and 'inappropriate behaviour', in order to anticipate and prepare for the introduction of a mandatory register. in addition, and with the same objective, consideration should be given to possible incompatibilities with national legislation as regards the rules on confidentiality applicable to certain regulated professions (e.g. lawyers), on the understanding that the working group welcomed a proposal for a transitional solution from the presidency, which should be the subject of further examination.
in writing. in the european social partners' declaration on the involvement of social partners in european economic governance adopted on 24 october 2013, the union social partners confirmed their support for the tripartite social summit for growth and jobs and called for a coherent process of consultation of social partners in the framework of the european semester.
we are deeply concerned that budgetary debates in the council have been poisoned for many years by the principle of 'fair return', instead of being guided by the logic of european added value. while this controversy existed before the introduction of a gni-based resource, the situation has been considerably aggravated by the current system of union financing, in which some 74% of revenue comes from national gni-based contributions and not from genuine own resources, as provided for in the treaty of rome and all subsequent european treaties. i believe that such a system places undue importance on the net balances between member states and has led to the gradual introduction of complex and opaque compensation mechanisms and other corrective mechanisms in the financing of the union budget.
the agenda calls for the debate on the recommendation for second reading of the committee on employment and social affairs on increasing worker mobility by improving the acquisition and preservation of supplementary pension rights (17612/1/2013 - c7-0059/2014 - 2005/0214 ((cod)) (rapporteur: ria oomen-ruijten) (a7-0188/2014).
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our position on the reports on the green and white papers on pensions is clear. the first pillar of the legal and public pension must be the foundation for a decent retirement. but it is equally clear that if the second pillar can provide a supplement to pensions, then it must benefit everyone fairly, including mobile workers between member states. but for years, as our rapporteur and our commissioner have pointed out, we have had an unfair situation in which these mobile workers could lose the benefit of their pension contributions in the context of supplementary pensions. some blocked the adoption of the directive to preserve their occupational pension model, while regularly selling us the benefits of worker mobility... thanks to the efforts of parliament, the negotiating team and above all the role played by ria oomen-ruijten and pervenche berès, both of whom i thank in particular, this is now settled. the mobile worker in the union will retain his rights. national models of supplementary pension had to be preserved with sufficient but not too long waiting and acquisition periods, which would have been a brake on mobility. of course, efforts have had to be made to preserve national models of supplementary pensions with sufficiently long waiting and acquisition periods for the systems to be financially viable. the balance struck seems to me to be good, with the combined waiting period and acquisition period not exceeding three years. in addition, thanks to the efforts of the parliament, there is no longer any question of requiring the mobile worker to find a new job in both member states immediately after he has settled in a new member state in order to benefit from the protection of his rights in the old one. this idea of the council was deeply unfair to all the workers who moved, for example, first for family reasons and then had to look for work in their new state. finally, we have managed to avoid the possibility for the managers of the second pillar to repay in cash what they consider to be 'small accounts'. this could only be done with the consent of the beneficiary, who would be duly informed of the consequences for his pension. that's an important part of it. in short, parliament and its negotiating team have brought social justice into the council and commission's common desire to promote worker mobility.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today at 6 p.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the report by danuta jazlowiecka, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council implementing directive 96/71/ec on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services (com (((2012) 0131 c70086/2012 2012/0061 ((cod)) (a70249/2013).
mr president, commissioner, social dumping seriously harms the economic health of europe and the diversion of the application of the directive on the posting of workers is the best proof of this. for belgium alone [nbsp ]my country[nbsp ], in 2013, no less than 100[nbsp ]000[nbsp ] posted workers, paid less than 5[nbsp ]euro an hour, were listed in defiance, of course, of our social rules and also at the expense of our virtuous companies. fraud and abuse which are detrimental to the very idea of europe, which is why i think the deal proposed here is going in the right direction, with increased controls, more cooperation between member states, this open list which has been mentioned, documents which can be claimed, the identification also - this is essential - of the false independent workers and, above all, the cascading liability of the subcontracting chain. more than a blemish, a fault, in my opinion, but as we know, the national resistance was enormous in the head of some member states: the fact that this joint responsibility is precisely limited to the construction industry and not extended to other problematic sectors [nbsp ] we have mentioned them, transport, cleaning or others. in my view, solidarity with all employers and workers would also mean going beyond mere cooperation between states and establishing a genuine european body of labour inspectors, with the task of checking and punishing offenders and with the means to do so. so i share the concerns that have been expressed - i conclude, mr president - by mr hughes about article 9, but i do not think that "throwing the baby out with the bath water" is the responsible attitude that is expected of us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is by achieving real equality between workers in terms of wages, social protection and working conditions that we will build a europe of social progress. that is why we wanted the basic directive on secondment to be revised. we have not received it from the commission and the debate has been limited to an implementing directive, with an agreement which aims to limit abuse and attempts to circumvent the law. there are many cases on the ground, in our towns and cities, in many sectors of activity, and i think that the fact that more controls are being allowed by the member states and that there is a chain of responsibility for failing companies is a step forward. however, this useful agreement is minimalist and cannot be used as a pretext to reject any idea of revising the directive itself tomorrow. the fight against competition between workers and social dumping in europe is therefore far from over.
mr president, my colleagues have spoken and it is true that this interpretative directive on the posting of workers is making some progress. the fight against cascading subcontractors, which i myself initiated in the public procurement directive, is fundamental. the fight against social dumping is a necessity in europe today. the fact that we can make checks easier does not impede the movement of workers, mr schmidt. the workers must move freely in today's europe, of course, as in yesterday's, and perhaps more easily in tomorrow's. mobility is fundamental, but not under any conditions. because today, under the 1996 directive, this mobility is organizing social dumping. it is very clear that the priority in the next parliamentary term will be to change the basic directive so that taxes and social security laws are paid where the worker works, in the country where he works. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this. this is one of the fundamental battles of the next parliamentary term to restore the citizens' confidence in the european union.
in writing. mr president, the mobility of people and services in the european single market is a huge achievement. but unfair competition, fraud and social dumping through the abuse of the rules on posting threaten to undermine the broad support enjoyed by our companies and workers for the freedoms of the internal market. the agreement on the enforcement directive should ensure better monitoring of the rules. the commission will be able to use the information it has obtained from the member states to assess the legality of the secondment of workers and to combat the problems of letterbox companies and the selfemployed. it is good that for the first time a european minimum standard for the sanctioning of fraud in subcontracting chains is being introduced. member states will have the opportunity to incorporate accompanying control measures at national level where necessary. i call on the european commission to respect this flexibility in the face of new forms of abuse. the same applies to national general liability schemes which are more ambitious than the european minimum standard. the lines of communication between the national inspectorates are in many cases still lacking. the automation of data exchange will allow for much better monitoring of secondments. it is therefore of the utmost importance that the european commission ensures that all member states implement the agreement correctly.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, by adopting this decision, the union is turning a former informal platform of public employment services into a formal and operational cooperation network. it is clear that job creation is not the responsibility of the public employment services but depends on the employment and growth policies initiated by the union and the member states, policies made more difficult by the current austerity. however, these services play a fundamental role in the fight against unemployment and in achieving the strategy 2020 targets of increasing the employment rate to 75%. in view of the situation in europe, where unemployment rates can reach 25% in some countries and regions, any initiative to strengthen coordination in this area should be encouraged. this network will enable initiatives based on benchmarking or benchlearning to compare and mutually enrich each other's implementation of employment policies, which contribute to reducing unemployment for all age groups, in particular vulnerable groups, and to reducing the duration of unemployment in order to combat structural unemployment and social exclusion. this network will contribute to the strengthening of public employment services and will aim to support in particular the most vulnerable social groups, to promote decent and sustainable work, to improve the functioning of the labour market in the union and its integration, and to promote voluntary geographical and occupational mobility on fair terms, in order to meet specific labour market needs. the network will help identify skills shortages and better match the skills of jobseekers with the needs of employers. you will thus find that the missions and objectives assigned to this network are ambitious, with a role of analysis, exchange, initiative and suggestion in the field of employment policy. to carry out these tasks fully, all member states must be represented at the table and good cooperation with other actors on the labour market must be possible. thus, the presence of all around the table was a vital point of our discussions. what interpretation should be given to the texts, to the legal bases, on the compulsory or voluntary nature of this network? our discussions have not been able to resolve the differences in legal interpretation between the council on the one hand and the commission and parliament on the other. the proof: the council intends to attach to the agreement a unilateral declaration specifying its interpretation, namely participation by all, but on a voluntary basis. in this context, the employment committee of the european parliament proposes that the agreement should also be accompanied by, without calling into question, its interpretation, namely that participation by all, on a compulsory basis, is the only guarantee of real added value to this formal network. even if we succeed in adopting a text without any clashes, i must stress that this is not conducive to building confidence between the two institutions in the context of codecision. good cooperation for the network, i said: the network is encouraged to cooperate, if necessary, but only on its own initiative, with the social partners, ngos, local and regional authorities and employment services and other stakeholders. cooperation also with the other institutions of the union, via the secretariat provided by the commission and an employment committee (emco) with observer status, which does not prevent, where necessary, meetings in restricted session. in addition, we have ensured in this decision that there is not only this cooperation with all the actors, but also the involvement, in the activities of the network, of all the public employment services in the member states whose employment responsibilities are managed at subnational institutional levels, such as belgium. ladies and gentlemen, this agreement is the result of a good initiative by the european commission and a strong commitment by parliament and the council to achieve it during this parliamentary term, despite their differences of opinion. i would like to take this opportunity to thank my fellow rapporteurs and our committee chair, mrs pervenche berès, whose experience and tenacity are beyond compare, as well as the committee secretariat and the various collaborators. in conclusion, this new european social policy tool - which is rare enough to be highlighted - will give new impetus to the fight against unemployment, especially youth unemployment, and the fight against social exclusion.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the need for a strengthened and coordinated fight against unemployment at european level and for the effective and rapid implementation of the youth guarantee is obvious and has been mentioned in this debate. i would also like to thank the various speakers for their support. as regards the amendments tabled for vote, i suggest that we do not support them because the spirit of these amendments is largely embedded in our compromise and they would call the agreement into question. it is essential, as our commissioner has stressed, that the measure be adopted in this parliament so that the network can function fully and rapidly.
i would like to propose an oral amendment to amendments nos 314 and 316 tabled by members of the committee on agriculture and rural development and the epp. this means that we add the following sentence after the phrase 'including on form processing': 'provided that the respective operator produces for short supply chains only, as defined in article 2.1 (m) of regulation 1305/2013.' i ask for permission to put this oral amendment to the vote.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i hope this is my last speech as a member of parliament... (laughter) but not the last speech before this assembly. i would like to welcome the speeches of hannes swoboda and joseph daul and we will certainly also applaud the intervention of daniel cohn-bendit. i thank them for their cooperation and collaboration over the past five years in this parliament and i welcome their commitment. this is what struck me most when i came here to the european parliament from belgian politics. i have to say that i was not able to get a full grasp of the spirit and the european friendship that characterizes the european parliament. therefore, i want to greet hannes, joseph and certainly dany, because if you have a friend like him, you don't need enemies. i can tell you that. i salute the three for their friendship and cooperation. (applause) i would like to thank i begin my interlude in the netherlands, because in the first world war, a hundred years ago, so many belgians in vlamingen were killed in the war. the first world war was the first war that millions of europeans had to fight on an industrial scale. "flanders fields" may have today a heroic sound, but in reality, the places in flanders that can still be visited, are totally different. it was a reality of stinking graves, mustard gas and grenades, a reality of misery and death, which no one can imagine today. some writers are unable to call themselves authors. the first world war was the great war, which afterwards was no longer a prelude to a subsequent conflict that was so potentially devastating. in fact, i would say that the beginning was of the 20th century, a century that should never have been born as we look back at the tens of millions of people in europe who have found their end in it. we as politicians have all always had the urge to look at war with a geopolitical eye - actually taking a step back from the essence of war. war is not in my eyes about land recovery. it is also not always an armed struggle between countries. it's always a gruesome battle between people. something that rolled down the street in the eighties and that's life wasted. the essence of war is always the immense pain and suffering it causes. millions of families have been destroyed. i'm not going to let you get away with this. it's not like that. the definitive change in perception, in vision, in the world view, in the desire for ambition, before we have experienced a war, certainly in the war of 1914-1918, after we have had ambition. the war veterans have met with the condition that birds no longer fly in the spring, but in the fall. in front of them is the smell of hospital and air and something that gives peace and comfort. war is something we must continue to bear. war is not a geopolitical struggle, war is in the first instance the destruction of the lives of families and people. it is a huge step in european development that war for our own is become an aberration. thanks to the european project, we have now known nearly 70 years of unbroken peace. my generation knows only war from history books, from novels of that time. something in the glass of foreign countries is being published. nevertheless, dear colleagues, i think the war or the absence of it was once the only argument for europe and european integration. today that is no longer the case. let's be honest about it. we will not convince the younger generation just by pointing to a horrible but distant past. we need to explain to them how europe and european integration is a tool for a better future and to keep that peace on our continent, in our own countries, in the balkans and in our neighbourhood in ukraine. but we are not here today to reflect, i think, on the political arguments for further european integration. we are here to remember what binds us: the values of peace and cooperation. values which were not european values one hundred years ago. they were not european values, they became european values; they became european principles and they have become our binding principles over time. never again, never again, never again: two simple words expressing a whole history and a hope for the future and today we have the certainty that our children will not be sent into battle against each other. it is an absurd thought, it is an important thought, it is progress in the true sense of the word and therein lies also the greatest challenge i think for mankind. so my wish for europe is that we will be able to persevere with such progress. to secure such an immense leap forward; to leave our petty differences behind, to leave nationalism and populism behind and work on the basis of what binds us as europeans, because this simple insight is the driving force behind progress and is the engine of humanity. that is why this commemoration matters, even if none of us ever has to live through a war because war today between us has become unthinkable, has become impossible and has become also the reason why we must continue our quest: the quest for peace, the quest for a better future and that means the quest for europe. (applause) i would like to thank you.
i also agree with most of the previous speakers, except for what mr fleckenstein said just now, that this is not the right time to discuss and vote on a resolution. i personally think that the resolution is far too long and i regret that the members have not been able to resist including the whole list of comments on the situation in the text, but it is important that we speak out and it is especially important that we make clear our absolute condemnation of russia's attitude. in this context, i would like to call on all member states to at least postpone and suspend all contracts for the supply of arms and military equipment. i would also like to call on all the economic circles in the member states to make it clear to russia that there can be no business as usual and therefore no economic missions to moscow as if nothing were going on.
russia's responsibility for what is happening in eastern ukraine is undeniable. uniformed, heavily armed men without badges, they are popularly known as "little green men". and those little green men aren't from the planet mars. we know where they come from. russia is operating in a dangerous gray area here with the risk of a spiral of violence. russia can do this because it knows that the european union lacks the manpower to do so. we must de-escalate the situation at all costs. firstly, through dialogue, in which we must also be very clear for once. however, ukraine is also a country of diversity, with different languages, populations and regions. i told you before: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. it could be a new path for kiev and a compromise. but reforms, however necessary, can never be imposed by force, and certainly not by foreign intervention.
in writing. - in future, eu workers will be able to take their supplementary pension rights (pillar 2) with them. we are adopting legislation on this today, for those who move within the eu for a new job, as well as for frontier workers. this is a logical consequence of the principle of free movement and the european single market. if you move from flanders to work in a country such as france, for example, you must be able to assume that your supplementary pension rights will remain intact. the eu should be able to 'bundle' its rights and enjoy a single pension. this protection has been lacking until now for the supplementary pension of the second pillar, the occupational pensions paid by employers. such pension rights are not bundled, which may give rise to several separate pensions and the loss of tax benefits. this, of course, puts a brake on intra-european job mobility: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of workers are respected. as many member states encourage supplementary pensions to reduce the pressure on statutory pensions, we need to improve the conditions for safeguarding supplementary pensions within the eu. today brings it one step closer: this is the way to make work across the union worthwhile.
in writing. following negotiations between the european parliament and the council with the participation of the commission, the proposal under consideration provides legal certainty on supplementary pension rights for transnational mobility of workers. the rapporteur therefore recommends that it be approved without amendments.
in writing. food security has always played a central role in the european union's action. ensuring a high level of human, animal and plant health throughout the food chain is one of the objectives of the eu treaties, which over the years have led to the creation of a body of legislation comprising some 70 regulatory texts enabling the european agri-food industry to achieve internationally recognised safety and quality standards. the agri-food industry is the second largest in the union, with a total output in the food chain of around eur 750 billion per year and employing more than 48 million people, from primary production to catering and retail.
in writing. the eu's internal market is of vital importance to the european economy and no one wants to go back to the glory days of border controls. it goes without saying that adequate control of contagious animal diseases is the best precondition for the proper functioning of the internal market for trade in live animals, products of animal origin and foodstuffs. this is why this regulation is so important. at the same time, it is true that some member states or regions, more progressive than others, have succeeded in eradicating certain diseases in their territory. the regulation must strike a balance on this point. we must be able to benefit from a free market, but not from a free market in diseases. in this regard, article 169 on national measures for terrestrial animals should be amended to allow additional protection measures, provided, however, that they are based on a sound scientific basis and are not adopted for economic reasons such as disguised barriers to trade.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protective measures against organisms harmful to plants.
in writing. in 2012, the european commission conducted a eurobarometer survey with telling results: 27[nbsp ]% of consumers considered a large number of non-food consumer products sold in europe to be unsafe. this is no doubt due to the massive import of "made in china" and other products manufactured to standards that are not always in line with european standards. rather than moving forward with a hypothetical new 'safety tested in europe' label, the european authorities would be well advised to strengthen the ce marking, as it is understood by consumers: a real guarantee of product safety and not just an indicator of a product's compliance with european legislation. that is why i voted against amendments nos 18, 19 and 60 to the schaldemose report. i welcome, however, the adoption of two key proposals: one to pay particular attention to vulnerable consumers, especially young children, who sometimes confuse toys with food. and the adoption of a quality standard, namely the mandatory indication of the country of origin for non-food products. this is the best way to showcase european know-how and to strengthen consumer confidence in the single market.
in writing. we want to make 'made in' labels compulsory for goods sold on the european market. we have also proposed tougher penalties for companies selling potentially dangerous products. enhancing product safety and increasing market surveillance rules: two objectives for greater protection of the european consumer. an effective single market requires two essential components: safety for consumers and a level playing field for businesses. the advances we are proposing tonight meet both of these objectives.
in writing. we want to make 'made in' labels compulsory for goods sold on the european market. we have also proposed tougher penalties for companies selling potentially dangerous products. enhancing product safety and increasing market surveillance rules: two objectives for greater protection of the european consumer. an effective single market requires two essential components: safety for consumers and a level playing field for businesses. the advances we are proposing tonight meet both of these objectives.
in writing. commodity markets are fundamentally different from pure and simple financial markets. while it is possible to live a lifetime without being directly affected by the price of stocks and bonds, it is impossible to live a lifetime without being affected by the price of food and energy. commodity derivatives, in the form of futures contracts, anticipate on the financial markets. the raw materials markets have developed without taking into account the legitimate needs of producers and consumers for raw materials, agricultural products and energy in order to guard against the impact on prices of factors beyond their control. nevertheless, the evolution of financial markets over the last ten years has been such that commodities have joined stocks and bonds as 'investment assets'.
in writing. the commission's drafting proposals for the markets in financial instruments directive and regulation (mifid and mifir) contain provisions explicitly designed to meet the need for the supervision and regulation of financial markets in relation to commodities. these proposals provide for specific position limits or alternative arrangements (article 59) for commodity derivatives, which is a positive step if the overall objective is to facilitate price setting and effective hedging of price risks to producers and consumers and, therefore, to prevent and correct asset bubbles and other distortions. as a necessary complement to position limits, the proposal introduces obligations to report positions by category of trader to the market and to regulators (article 60). the commission also notes that the current full exemption from mifid for commodity traders has been removed. these measures are in the right direction, but more is needed and can be done. to this end, your rapporteur for opinion believes that three general issues need to be addressed by the european parliament in the context of the mifid/mifir review.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no[nbsp]638/2004 on community statistics relating to the trading of goods between member states, as regards the conferral of delegated powers and implementing powers on the commission for the adoption of certain measures, the provision of information by the customs administration, the exchange of confidential data between member states and the definition of the statistical value.
in writing. the completion of the single market is a key priority for all european institutions, in the interests of competitiveness, growth and financial stability. whether to mitigate risk or to ensure a competitive environment for post-trade services, it is necessary to look at existing models of central securities depositories (csds) across the european union. we need to assess the suitability of existing models for the future development of the single market. one of the most immediate developments is the introduction of the ecb's target2securities (f2s) system, which is due to be launched in 2015. although historically there was only one csd for each member state, with the introduction of t2s it is now possible to see how a more streamlined and integrated model can develop.
in writing. the possibility of supplementing or replacing the steering wheel mark with electronic tags should be further encouraged as it facilitates inspections of ships calling at union ports and makes it possible to combat counterfeiting more effectively (article [nbsp ] 11). in addition, it is necessary to ensure that market surveillance measures remain proportionate to the objective pursued, in particular with regard to the sampling required by member states for the purpose of carrying out checks (article 27). finally, it is proposed to further specify the procedure for delegated acts (article [nbsp ]37) which the commission may use to amend the list of international conventions requiring flag state approval for equipment to be placed on board ships flying its flag and to update the references to european and international standards set out in annex iii to the directive.
in writing. the ncl introduces a simplified regulatory framework for products and allows for a more consistent application of technical standards, which will help to improve the functioning of the single market by ensuring equal treatment of non-compliant products and economic operators and equivalent assessment for notified bodies on the union market. i believe that alignment with the ncl will strengthen producer and consumer confidence, through clarification of the obligations of economic operators, and will provide member state authorities with more effective tools to carry out market surveillance checks, which will lead to an overall reduction in non-compliant and dangerous products on the market.
in writing. i fully agree with the main lines of the regulation proposed by the commission. the rapporteur, however, proposes several amendments in his draft report. it seems appropriate, in particular, to define clearly the scope of the proposed amending regulation, which is not intended to modify either the internal division of tasks within a common court or the specific rules on recognition and enforcement which the agreement on the common court might contain. special attention should also be paid, within the legal framework of a common court, to the rules applicable to third-country defendants, who are not generally covered by the brussels i rules. i agree with the adoption of the proposed legislation as soon as possible, since it is not controversial and the entry into force of the agreement on the unified patent court depends on it.
in writing. we propose to support the principle of financial support to national public authorities for statistical activities with real european added value, as proposed by the commission. it turns out that the european statistical programme 2013-2017 is already based on a similar principle of a reasonable distribution of the financial burden between the budgets of the union and the member states. the ad[nbsp ]hoc module of the lfs has a major european dimension and implies an additional workload for the national statistical authorities in addition to their usual activities.
in writing. the work of the agency in pollution prevention and preparedness and response is not only financially attractive, but also has a non-monetary added value. given the devastating environmental impact and the enormous economic costs of potential accidents, as well as their socio-economic consequences on other sectors, such as tourism and fisheries, sufficient investment in the agency is crucial. this is the reasoning behind our position.
in writing. the creation of enterprises, but also the development of these, still generate many administrative burdens that harm entrepreneurship. this has a negative impact on job creation. i therefore fully support the introduction of reforms aimed at administrative simplification for smes. the situation of young people in europe remains problematic. they have real difficulties in finding employment and their skills remain untapped. indeed, unemployment among young people aged 15-24 in europe has reached an unsustainable rate of 23%. to reverse this trend, it is essential to improve the transition between school and work. that is why i support any european strategy to promote job creation, to stimulate entrepreneurship and to encourage companies to hire young workers.
in writing. it is essential to put in place an appropriate regulatory framework, removing unnecessary barriers that impose disproportionate costs on businesses and prevent them from developing, creating jobs and competing internationally with other businesses. i would point out that several initiatives, including the 'think first' principle for smes, the sme test, the refit programme, the 'ten most restrictive legislative acts for smes' defined by the commission (which identified the working time directive and the interim work directive as being too complex or containing disproportionate requirements for smes), are helping to ensure that legislation produces the desired effects. it is the responsibility of legislators to ensure that any regulation or proposal they make encourages job creation and does not impose any disproportionate or unreasonable burden on businesses.
in writing. in the field of education and training, it is essential to continue to improve existing methods of learning and teaching and to promote innovative methods. elns can make a strong contribution to achieving the europe 2020 objectives and making lifelong learning a reality.
in writing. the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites), signed in 1973, aims to ensure that international trade in wild animals and plants does not endanger their survival. the species covered by cites are grouped into three lists in its annexes, each list corresponding to a distinct degree of protection. council regulation (ec) no 338/97 aims to protect species of wild fauna and flora by controlling trade in them. it lays down provisions for the import, export and re-export of, and trade within, the union in specimens of species listed in its four annexes.
in writing. piracy has increased since 2004. this is why the european union launched operation atalanta in 2008 to combat piracy in the region. from 2009, the tugboats began to take military personnel or private armed security groups on board, which reduced the number of ships hijacked but increased the operational costs of the fleet. the current protocol contains a clause which provides that in exceptional circumstances relating to piracy, which force the fleet to leave the indian ocean, the two parties will examine the possibility of applying a pro rata temporis payment, upon individual request of the shipowners. the new protocol is in line with the objectives of the ppps. it maintains the european presence in the field of long-distance fishing and the fishing opportunities in this region of the indian ocean, contributes to the sustainability of fishing grounds and strengthens cooperation between the european union and seychelles. in view of the above, the rapporteur considers that the new protocol is balanced and beneficial for both parties and therefore recommends its approval.
in writing. i have no major objection to the proposal and would like to see the fisheries protocol between the european union and the union of the comoros approved, which benefits both parties and fishermen in the region. the agreement should be endorsed as it will create jobs and wealth
in writing. regarding the political situation in madagascar, although there is no certainty about its political stability, the fact remains that the roadmap signed in 2011 and aimed at ending the crisis the country is experiencing is respected and remains the reference framework for the assessment of the internal developments in the country. the next elections will take place in may and july 2013 with the presence of eu observers. an independent electoral commission was established.
in writing. we welcome the conclusion of the new framework agreement as regards the readmission clause, invite the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs to support this report and recommend that the european parliament give its consent in accordance with article 218 (6) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. the new framework agreement will allow the union to expand its role and influence on the korean peninsula. i would like to stress in this connection the need for closer cooperation to bring peace and security to the peninsula, particularly in the area of non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. we also welcome the imminent conclusion of a separate agreement between the republic of korea and the union allowing the former to participate in the latter's crisis management operations. korea would be the first asian country to do so.
in writing. montenegro has made considerable progress towards european integration, and there is a clear enthusiasm for the european project. i therefore support the conclusion of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement with the republic of montenegro. we encourage the country to continue its efforts to align itself with european standards and call on it in particular to strengthen the fight against financial corruption and organised crime. we welcome the participation of civil society in the negotiation process and encourage the government to maximise the range of civil society organisations represented in the discussions. we also wanted to commend montenegro for its efforts to increase the independence and rationalization of the judiciary.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union
in writing. the conclusion of the protocol will pave the way for the gradual opening of certain eu programmes to georgia or for the enhancement of georgia's participation in them, which will not only strengthen ties in the fields of culture, education, environment, technology and science, intensify people-to-people contacts and sectoral cooperation, but also consolidate political relations in favour of the eastern partnership and the association agreement.
in writing. on 4 march 2013, the spanish authorities requested the commission to prepare a council decision authorising spain to apply exemptions or reductions from the iaem to certain products manufactured locally in the canary islands for the period 2014-2020, amending the list of products and the maximum rates applicable to certain of them. the commission has confirmed, after analysing the information collected, that the particular characteristics of the canary islands are detrimental to their development and entail additional costs for local operators. it is therefore justified to maintain the exemption of the iaem for a list of locally manufactured industrial products, as this measure is necessary and proportionate and does not undermine the integrity and consistency of the union legal order. the commission is also proposing that the council should adopt a decision on the proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (hereinafter 'the agency'), which would be based on the principle of mutual recognition of medical certificates.
in writing. in accordance with the explanatory memorandum accompanying the commission proposal, council decision 2004/162/ec of 10 february 2004 (amended by council decisions 2008/439/ec of 9 june 2008 and 448/2011/eu of 19 july 2011), adopted pursuant to article 299 (2) of the ec treaty (now corresponding to article 349 of the tfeu), authorises france to apply, until 1 july 2014, exemptions or reductions from the 'octroi de mer' tax for a number of products manufactured in its outermost regions (excluding saint-martin) in order to strengthen competitiveness and to offset the additional production costs resulting from remoteness, dependence on raw materials and energy, the obligation to maintain large stocks, the smaller size of the export market and the low level of local development.
in writing. commissioners invited to participate by the conference of presidents have a portfolio related to the specific horizontal theme (s) on which they are asked. the number of such panels is limited to two per session, with the possibility of adding a third, depending on the specific horizontal theme or themes chosen for question time.
in writing. i voted in favour of the amendment of rule 90 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the council position on draft amending budget no[nbsp ]1/2014 of the european union for the financial year 2014, section iii commission and therefore of the amendment of the european parliament's regulation to provide for the possibility of electronic signatures.
in writing. the adopted regulation further harmonises, clarifies and strengthens the common rules for decision-making on noise-related operating restrictions at eu airports, such as the prohibition of night flights. these rules, which are based on principles endorsed by the international civil aviation organisation (icao), known as the 'balanced approach', cover in particular the assessment and management of aircraft noise and are designed to determine the most cost-effective way to deal with aircraft noise at each airport. the regulation applies only to the largest airports with traffic exceeding 50[nbsp ]000 civil aircraft movements per year and does not set specific noise thresholds, which remain the responsibility of national or local authorities.
in writing. - i welcome these new arrangements as they call for greater involvement of local authorities and residents in decision-making in this area, thus making the decision-making process more open and transparent and thus increasing the acceptance of measures. at eu level, we have proposed a balanced approach to noise-related decisions, with objective and measurable criteria to help in decision-making. at the same time, the eu parliament was able to ensure that the final decision on aviation noise reduction measures is taken exclusively by local authorities and on the basis of their national and, where appropriate, regional noise legislation and agreements. the eu commission cannot therefore, as originally proposed, call the measures into question. it can only review the procedure but not the content of the decision. this ensured that the principle of subsidiarity was upheld and that the eu commission was not involved. the noise measures at bierset airport are particularly exemplary, as they have created an excellent noise-reducing infrastructure in close cooperation with local residents. this has economic, social and environmental added value for the whole region and therefore bierset airport has always been mentioned in the debate, including by the european commission, as a prime example.
in the context of the 'airport package' on the (expansion of) airport capacity, the european commission has decided to adapt european legislation on noise emissions. it has based its proposal entirely on the 'balanced approach' of the international civil aviation organization (icao), which, despite its name, is anything but balanced. this approach does not focus on reducing noise, pollution, health and safety risks, but on the economic interests of commercial aviation, a handful of companies with a strong lobby. nothing in the legislation can prevent the european commission from circumventing the night flight ban for the economic interests of a number of companies. despite the improvements made by the european parliament to the original commission proposal (e.g. by including a paragraph on health damage), the new regulation will not improve the situation of people living near airports. this is the exact opposite of what european legislation should do, which is to ensure that all options remain available to guarantee the right to a healthy and quiet living environment.
in writing. the designation of a european capital of culture is widely followed by all european citizens. the chosen city becomes the nerve centre of the citizens' gathering, enabling everyone to enrich themselves by feeding on other crops present in the territory of the union. this is a major element of democratic learning. culture is the cement of positive identities, what defines both the individual and the collective, what makes us exist, as men and as peoples. it is education, training, openness to others and openness to knowledge. it is also a major driver of wealth and employment. creativity is the heart of innovation and innovation is the heart of development. we should seize every opportunity to develop the potential of a sector that generates jobs and income, especially for young people.
in writing. the rules for selecting european capitals established in 2006 will expire in 2019. given the long time-consuming nature of the current selection procedure, it was necessary to try to establish new rules for the period after 2020 by the end of 2013.
in writing. in view of the weaknesses identified by the commission in the first regulation, the provisions of this regulation for the protection of cetaceans will need to be revised before the end of 2015 to ensure that they are relevant and effective. on this basis, the commission shall, if appropriate, consider a comprehensive legislative proposal to be submitted to the european parliament and the council to ensure the effective protection of cetaceans, including through the use of regionalisation. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in order to update the technical specifications and conditions of use of sound-absorbing devices, including the corresponding signal and application characteristics, with a view to adapting the regulation to technical and scientific progress. the commission will allow sufficient time for the implementation of these adaptations. the power to adopt delegated acts is conferred on the commission for a period of up to four years.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. better enforcement is needed to combat unfair competition and abuse. fraud must be dealt with forcefully. both workers and employers have benefited from greater transparency and legal certainty. in this context, closer cooperation and exchange of information between member states are particularly important. that is why i support this agreement. however, this is only one element of what should be a multifaceted approach. performance monitoring is essential for an efficient response to abuses. belgium, for example, is far from a good student in this area. the fragmentation of the social inspection services is an old wound. the federal government is unable to cope with the inefficient web of as many as ten separate social inspection services. my party, the n-va, therefore calls for a single social inspection service with specialised teams. the elimination of the wage cost handicap also remains a priority. the parties which are most vocal in calling for the fight against social dumping are precisely the same parties which have for years blocked structural reforms to make our economy competitive again. reducing labour costs is crucial to our competitiveness and absolutely necessary if our companies are to compete internationally on a level playing field.
in writing. - the ability to provide services across borders is an important european achievement, especially for border regions. the posting of workers is part of this and is regulated by the posting of workers directive. unfortunately, member states are still very hesitant to check compliance with this directive. this will allow abuse by circumventing existing rules and will not lead to sanctions against the companies. i therefore very much welcome the fact that this directive will strengthen the monitoring of compliance. the commission has also proposed that the member states designate a competent authority to monitor compliance with the posting of workers directive and that information on working and employment conditions be exchanged more easily between member states, while respecting data protection. in addition, service providers from another member state must provide a declaration, including the identity of the service provider, the number of workers posted, the expected duration and the address of the workplace. this will make it easier to control. i also welcome the fact that additional measures can be introduced by the member states to prevent the direct subcontractor from being able to avoid liability due to the lack of transparency in the subcontracting chain in the case of subcontracting, which is particularly common in the construction sector.
in writing. i said yesterday in the plenary debate that social dumping is seriously damaging to the economic health of europe. the diversion of the application of the posting of workers directive is the best proof of this. in belgium alone, in 2013, no less than 100,000 posted workers, paid less than €5 an hour, were recorded, in defiance of the social rules applied in my country. that is why the european parliament's vote this afternoon in favour of the 'posting of workers' implementing directive is a good thing, whatever the extremes of the right and the left may think. substantial improvements were made to the text: the identification of 'independent falsehoods' and a wider margin of manoeuvre granted to states to carry out checks on the ground. to this must be added the cascading liability of contractors and subcontractors, unfortunately limited to the building sector. the introduction of a minimum wage in germany is anything but trivial and also part of the overall environment in which social europe is taking shape step by step. in conclusion: "it is better not to throw the baby with the bath water" and to put the book back on the shelf after the elections of 25 may.
in writing. - today, together with my green group, i voted in favour of the enforcement directive on the posting of workers. this new european legislation obliges all eu countries to better check that employers are following the law when posting workers across borders. authorities should be required to exchange information on malfunctions so that illegal mailbox businesses and forced pseudo-independence will soon be a thing of the past. countries should also inform workers of their rights when they are working in another country on a temporary basis on behalf of their employer. only good european agreements prevent the free movement of firms from leading to underpayment, exploitation and unfair competition. these agreements will help to tackle problems such as social dumping. i therefore voted against certain amendments which were intended to undermine the agreement reached between the council, the commission and the european parliament. i am convinced that this new directive will improve the practical situation for posted workers and that there will be no more excesses like those in flamanville. i do think that there is a need for a kind of social europol which can fight crossborder crime and violations of european social agreements more effectively.
in writing. i abstained, torn between the progress achieved by the socialists (sapin and di rupo) and the weakness of the rest of the text. the directive on the posting of workers already organises unfair competition between social protection systems. this competition is all the more exacerbated by the fact that more and more companies are abusing the directive to make it a veritable social dumping tool. this puts workers in economic unemployment in our country, who are replaced by exploited and underpaid workers. we can't accept that. beyond today's vote, it will be essential to revise the directive by highlighting a major principle: taxes and social laws must be paid in the country where the service is provided.
in writing. the purpose of the recast is to approximate the laws of the member states as regards the conditions for compensation of the owner of the property to be returned, by placing the burden of proof on the owner and not by referring this question to the laws of the member states. the owner of the property will thus have to show that he acted with sufficient diligence when acquiring it, that is, that he took sufficient steps to ensure its lawful origin. since the owner is usually an actor in the art market, it seems quite natural that he should be required to have done everything possible to ensure the legality of the cultural property before granting him compensation.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to point out the challenges posed by the enormous plastic mountain. as many as 8 billion plastic bags end up in the european environment as waste every year. it is clear that this is causing great damage to the environment, particularly in our seas. a european target to reduce use could provide a major impetus. at present, there are huge differences between member states. for example, flanders is already showing very good results: the use of plastic carrier bags has already been reduced by more than 86% compared with 2003, which puts us in the european lead and means that we are achieving the first objective with virtually no additional effort. however, there is still room for improvement. i would also like to stress that the measures proposed by the european parliament are in line with the polluter pays principle. but this file is only part of the puzzle. the proper implementation and enforcement of the waste directive remains very important and the packaging directive has a lot of potential. this legislation dates back to 1994 and needs to be updated. as the current target of at least 22.5% collection is being met almost across the eu, this figure could rise considerably.
in writing. those who have seen reports on what scientists and navigators call the "7th continent", this giant patch of plastic waste floating on the pacific ocean, 100 times the size of belgium, can only agree with the ambitious proposals in ms. auken's report. yes, it was important to vote for amendment no 34, which allows member states who wish to ban single-use plastic bags. i also supported other common sense measures, in particular the commitment by member states to gradually replace very light plastic bags with handles used for packaging foodstuffs such as fruit, vegetables or confectionery with handles made from recycled paper or with biodegradable plastic bags. because it is in our everyday purchases that we can make a difference, already by starting to generalize the payment of reusable bags, at 5 or 10 cents. to establish a win-win logic between traders and consumers. it is still the best policy with consumer awareness, environmental education to achieve the goal of 80[nbsp]% less disposable plastic bags by 2019.
in writing. - on average, each european uses 200 plastic bags a year. many of these disposable bags end up in the plastic soup that floats on the sea. every year, millions of marine animals die from plastic in their stomachs. the green group is now taking a lead in tackling this major environmental problem at european level. the report voted on today, for example, sets binding european targets to halve the use of single-use plastic bags within three years and to reduce it by 80% within five years. member states are required to charge a cost price for plastic carrier bags in the food sector and are encouraged to do so for the non-food sector. progressive countries, such as belgium, have already shown that putting a price tag on the use of disposable bags drastically reduces their use. these measures will have a positive effect in the short term and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the european parliament votes this afternoon on a directive on the use of thin plastic bags. our legislation requires member states to reduce the use of polluting plastic bags by 80% by 2019. when we consider that each european uses 200 plastic bags a year, 180 of which are not or only slightly reused, we can see the extent of the environmental consequences of this.
in writing. while respecting the sovereignty of the member states over their territorial seas, a key objective of this proposal is to achieve an increased level of cooperation between member states in frontex-coordinated operations, which always require authorisation from the member states concerned by an action on their territorial sea. while the primary responsibility for ensuring the establishment of appropriate asylum and border management systems lies with the states, the feu treaty, as well as the stockholm programme, requires a greater level of solidarity and a fair sharing of responsibilities between the eu institutions as well as the member states in the development of the common european asylum system and the gradual establishment of an integrated management system for the external borders. the current legal framework of the european union already offers a range of tools and instruments for responsibility-sharing and solidarity that can be useful in addressing protection gaps and weaknesses in member states' asylum and border management systems and in improving the overall quality of the common european asylum system.
in writing. i voted against the text. i am in fact very much against the arbitrations and the actions taken by companies against governments whenever they vote against something they do not like, such as philip morris's legal action against uruguay for wanting to label tobacco products as against tobacco, or veolia's legal action against egypt for proposing a minimum wage.
in writing. we share the commission's objectives. efficiency, reduction of threats of retaliation, transparency and predictability are highly commendable objectives which, when combined, ensure public confidence in the instrument. the rapporteur does not want to go beyond these objectives in substance, but he does identify areas where these objectives can be strengthened by providing answers to the questions raised above.
in writing. the european parliament will annually verify the conditions and criteria for the registration of european political parties and their european political foundations. i believe that this verification should be carried out once a year or at the request of a natural or legal person, and that the most effective procedure would be to involve the european parliament's committee on constitutional affairs. the committee shall organise the necessary hearings and provide an opinion to the european parliament within two months of the request.
in writing. we support in particular the creation of sui generis contributions, a new form of european funding tailored to european political parties, taking into account their specific characteristics and needs. the new system of contributions also implies important simplifications for european political parties, such as the abolition of the annual work programme, greater flexibility in the timing of the use of eu funds and 100% pre-financing.
in writing. i support the text, but regret that despite parliament's urgent request, the negotiations have not been able to reach an agreement on the budgeting of the edf in the mff 2014-2020. the commission notes that the edf is a key instrument for the implementation of the union's external policy and that the union's external policy is based on the principles of the union's external policy, the union's external policy and the union's external policy.
in writing. while it is important to ensure that the regulation under consideration covers emissions from shipping as consistently as possible, it is also essential to focus on the essentials and to limit implementation costs and administrative burdens. similarly, companies should not be obliged to publish sensitive and potentially misleading information. we therefore propose to exclude transportation from other useful climate-related information, as this data is not related to emission measurements. the high cost of fuels already provides a strong incentive for the maritime market to improve its energy efficiency, and the energy efficiency of transport in real-world conditions is a much more complex issue, which cannot be addressed without knowledge of the specific market conditions that dictate the decisions of shipowners and ship operators. the actual energy efficiency of a journey and its impact on social welfare cannot be determined without knowing the cargoes available, their mass in relation to weight, weather conditions, applicable prices, geographical and other constraints, delivery time, etc.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new species. the eu is home to over 12 000 species that are alien to their natural environment, of which about 15% are invasive. the asian tiger mosquito, the asian ladybug, the giant bear claw, and the japanese centipede are striking examples. the problem was in the news last week when the raccoon was first filmed in the wild in flanders. i therefore believe that the european parliament has rightly been calling for european legislation for a long time. this is a case in which european cooperation offers concrete added value. invasive alien species have a particularly damaging impact on biodiversity and ecosystems, causing considerable damage to human health, agriculture and infrastructure with significant economic consequences (estimated at €12 billion per year across the eu). fortunately, during the negotiations we were able to get rid of a system of national exceptions, which would seriously impede the effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and enforceability of the legislation. i myself have always been keen to see the respect for animal welfare in this case. i am pleased that this has been firmly established in the legislation, thanks in part to amendments of my own making.
in writing. - for centuries, new exotic plant and animal species have been arriving on the european continent. most of these are harmless, but about 15 percent of these organisms pose a serious threat to the continent's native diversity, causing an estimated average of 12 billion euros of damage each year. member states have tried to limit the impact of these harmful alien species but have not been able to act quickly and adequately. the bill to tackle this crossborder problem at european level is therefore not a moment too soon. i was therefore astonished when the environmental management committee (envi) of the parliament, led by the socialist rapporteur pavel poc, decided to adopt an open list of exceptions per member state, in order to safeguard the fur processing industry. i could not vote for this as a green mep because it completely undermines the common european approach. fortunately, the negotiations with the council of environment ministers have opted for a more differentiated approach, whereby the most threatening organisms are no longer allowed to be released, imported or traded throughout the eu. that is why i can vote in favour now. however, it is incomprehensible that genetically modified organisms have not been included in the legislation, despite clear evidence that their unintended spread has persistent and harmful effects.
in writing. the draft proposal consists essentially of a list of eee of union concern, the adverse consequences of which require concerted action at union level. this list will be drawn up by the commission in cooperation with the member states. species listed as union concern will be banned, but some limited derogations will be provided for. member states will have to take measures to ensure that species are not introduced, traded, held, cultivated or released into the union. those species may have damaging effects on all or part of the union, but it is justified, given the seriousness of their impact, to seek assistance from other member states of the union.
in writing. we consider that the scope of the proposed amendment to regulation (eu) no[nbsp ]525/2013 on a mechanism for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions in the european union fully reflects the need to establish and adopt specific and consistent rules to ensure the technical implementation of the kyoto protocol in the european union after 2012, to allow for the successful implementation of the joint commitments of the union, its member states and iceland and to ensure alignment with the functioning of the union ets and the effort sharing decision. i consider the formal entry into force of the doha amendment to be one of the european union's priority objectives, given that the kyoto protocol makes an indispensable contribution to the global fight against climate change.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive on combating fraud affecting the financial interests of the union by means of criminal law. in particular, they consider that fraud and other illegal activities affecting the financial interests of the union constitute a serious problem detrimental to the union budget and thus to taxpayers, and they urge the european institutions to ensure that public money is spent on structural growth, fiscal consolidation and employment.
in writing. i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012, section i european parliament
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. we have relied on various sources to validate the figures, namely the opinion of the court of auditors, the council note, the ad hoc articles of the treaty on european union and the reports on the entity. we have followed the rapporteur and discharge has been granted. it is now up to the president to convey our decision. i regret, however, that the president was not able to be there to silence the rumours against him, following remarks made by meps who were more concerned about the next elections than citizens.
for the greens/efa group mr president, we have known for a long time [nbsp]it is the treaty that says it that the european parliament has no power over the revenue side of the european budget. but what the treaty does not say is whether the european parliament must accept everything that the council imposes on it, such as cheques, discounts and other exceptions. parliament did not want to negotiate any comma, despite its initial position in 2012 which said, i remind you, "there will be no approval of the multiannual financial framework without reform of own resources". there is no reform of own resources and yet the ecr, epp, alde and the socialists have given their approval to the mff. understand who can. so let's ask ourselves a simple question: what would have happened if the european parliament had dared to say "no" on 19 november 2013? the end of the world? i certainly don't. we would have lived with annual budgets, the time to agree on a new mff. we would also have more room for manoeuvre under the mff ceilings, about 10 billion, which would have enabled us to meet urgent humanitarian needs and the need for credits for the stability instrument. we could also have avoided what is going to happen to us, namely the cessation of payments on a number of budget lines in the coming months. we could have had a real european campaign on the allocation of these margins. it's still a good argument for an election campaign. and finally, we would have put an end to the rebates and cheques and avoided this famous "new machin", this new high-level group on own resources, with a road map and a timetable that [nbsp]though the minister says it is already a little trampled. we've already lost six months and we're nowhere. the option of no agreement until the elections, preferable to a bad agreement, as was said, was viable, made it possible to really launch the reform of own resources and also made it possible to meet democratic and political needs. tell me how, today, all of you together, can call for a fairer, more transparent, simpler system of own resources, without rebates or cheques, while respecting and guaranteeing this own resources package, just six weeks before the european elections. if you can do that, ladies and gentlemen, i promise you, it will be a guaranteed success in the next european elections. i'm afraid you're not up to it.
in writing. the european parliament is not a court and therefore does not have the power to impose fines on citizens. however, when all member states adopted the lisbon treaty, they agreed to give it the right to investigate cases of breaches and maladministration in the application of union law. this should oblige them to oblige their own administration to assist the european parliament's committees of inquiry. the institutions of the union should not allow officials regularly summoned to appear to take refuge behind the immunity granted to them by protocol no 7 in the sole interest of the union. the text therefore clearly states that in such cases the waiver of immunity will not be considered to be against the union interest.
in writing. - for the sake of clarity, i would remind you that the provisions of this resolution on relations between the european parliament and the national parliaments must be interpreted in relation to belgium in accordance with declaration no 51 annexed to the final act of the igc which adopted the treaty of lisbon. this means that, in accordance with belgian constitutional law, the federal parliament or the state parliaments, depending on the powers exercised by the eu, act as components of the national parliamentary system or as chambers of the national parliament.
in writing. it is useful to understand what the significant increase in information messages between parliaments and their officialisation mean. of course, mutual information enables national parliaments to provide the european parliament with better-informed assessments and the european parliament to adopt consensual decisions, and it also simplifies the task of national parliaments in the urgent and effective transposition of european legislation into national law. but it must be borne in mind that this intensive information network also aims to give national parliaments the 'european reflex', whatever the field of activity. we could speak of a kind of 'reverse subsidiarity': the formation of a european conscience could be done much better, according to this principle, in the national parliaments than in the european parliament. as the next european elections approach, which could be decisive for the future of the union, this is what the politicians of each nation playing the leading role are telling their people. in this context, the formation of genuinely european political parties is of the utmost importance.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation, which represents the first opportunity to apply the provisions of the lisbon treaty in relation to the regulation on implementing measures and supports its genesis.
in writing. while disappointed that the council was unable, despite parliament's insistence, to move forward on the reform of the own resources system, and taking into account the european parliament's limited legislative powers in the consultation procedure, i voted in favour of this report with high expectations of the high level group on own resources.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation on the modalities and procedure for making available the traditional own resources and the gni-based own resource and on measures to meet cash requirements, which is part of the reform of the own resources system presented by the commission in 2011, adapting it to the final outcome of the negotiations on the mff and own resources.
in writing. this report highlights the need to reform the eu's own resources system to simplify it and make it more fair and transparent. the result should strengthen the relationship between the citizen and the european project. therefore, the work of the high level working group on own resources, which held its first meeting on 3 april 2014, is of great importance and i can only hope that its work will be accelerated.
in writing. - public employment services (oda) are crucial links in the active labour market policy of the eu 2020 strategy. the establishment of a formal network involving all oda in europe should greatly enhance cooperation and exchange of experience, particularly around concrete policy initiatives. the example of the youth guarantee underlines the potential of the new network. the oda will have to play a central role in the correct implementation of the youth guarantee, but in doing so it will often be entering unknown territory. close cooperation within the european network, through comparative evaluation rounds, should ensure optimal implementation of the measure throughout the eu.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text by my excellent colleague mr daerden. this cooperation can be improved by various means: adding to the objectives the special attention required for the fight against youth unemployment, the promotion of sustainable employment or the fight against social dumping; involve the social partners and national labour administrations; respect the organisation of competences in the different member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. it will also amend all elements of the text to ensure consistency with other negotiations on legal or budgetary bases (psci/easi).
in writing. from the very beginning of the fund's existence, it was clear that changes were needed to meet the expectations of countries and regions affected by natural disasters and seeking assistance from the union. the instrument is generally well-suited to its objectives, but its effectiveness is considered insufficient, as evidenced by the fact that some of the criteria for the mobilisation of the fund are considered too complex or not clear enough. the procedure for granting aid is too long, since it is usually paid about a year after the disaster. while the instrument works well for major natural disasters, two thirds of the requests received are for 'regional disasters' with damage below the trigger threshold. the vast majority of these applications do not meet the required criteria and must be rejected, which wastes time and resources and frustrates many expectations. in order to simplify and increase the visibility of the solidarity fund, efforts should therefore be made to improve and simplify procedures, introduce an advance payment system and clarify certain provisions to allow for a faster disbursement of aid.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the european union's participation in the capital increase of the european investment fund
in writing. the commission proposal aims to ensure the necessary funding for the implementation of the new european pharmacovigilance regulation and directive adopted in 2012. these texts confer new powers on both the european medicines agency (ema) and the national competent authorities, the agencies responsible for regulating medicines in each member state. it is important that a financing mechanism is put in place as soon as possible, mainly because the new regulations have already entered into force.
in writing. pursuant to the joint declaration of the european parliament and of the council adopted at the same time as decision no [nbsp ]778/2013/eu of the european parliament and of the council of 12 august 2013 providing additional macro-financial assistance to georgia, the two co-legislators committed to 'fully implement [the] considerations and [the] principles [set out in the joint declaration] in the case-by-case decisions to be taken with a view to granting union macro-financial assistance'. therefore, the amendments contained in this report and amending the proposal for a commission decision granting macro-financial assistance to tunisia implement the considerations and principles set out in the joint declaration and/or harmonise the wording of this proposal with the recitals and articles of the latest amf decision (decision no [nbsp ]1351/2013/eu of the european parliament and of the council of 11 december 2013 granting macro-financial assistance to the hashemite kingdom of jordan).
in writing. the commission proposal provides for the amendment of the bluefin tuna recovery plan, the first version of which was adopted in 2006. at the time, the overfishing and depletion of the stock of the species was widely accepted, but the contracting parties of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (icsat, the regional management body responsible for this fishery) were not at all willing to reduce the catches and the resulting profits. finally, after years of wrangling among decision-makers and successive changes to the recovery plan, the latest analysis of bluefin tuna (2012) revealed that several indicators suggested that recovery could be underway, although scientists remain very cautious and say that 'in 2012, the committee had too little information on the composition of catches, effort and spatial distribution of the main fisheries in the mediterranean to draw any conclusions.
in writing. the euro is the second most widely used international currency in the world, making it a target for organised crime specialising in counterfeiting. europol devotes considerable resources and time to the seizure of counterfeit euro banknotes and coins and the dismantling of illegal printing works. the commission is convinced that a harmonised approach to the establishment of criminal sanctions would be both dissuasive and effective. however, a significant number of member states consider these sanctions to be too ambitious and contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. furthermore, given the economic disparities between member states, the setting of harmonised minimum penalties is likely to lead to inconsistent deterrent effects across the union, which would make such penalties counterproductive.
in writing. let's be clear: no circumvention of the gmo rule! the proposal will enable the commission to amend the technical characteristics of the names, descriptions and definitions of the products listed in annex i and the compositional characteristics of the honey listed in annex ii to this directive. the rapporteur considers that these are essential elements of the directive. therefore, the commission proposal, by allowing a change in the essential elements, goes beyond the scope of the delegated acts as contained in the treaty. that is why the rapporteur has deleted these references in the commission's proposal in her report.
in writing. we disagree with the commission's approach and want strict control of fishing activity to lead to sustainable management from an environmental and social point of view. i would remind you of the obligation on member states to respect the capacity ceilings for their fleets laid down in the basic regulation. to strengthen this obligation, i propose that member states indicate in their emff operational programme the measures they are implementing to comply with these ceilings under this regulation.
in writing. the uncertainty over the future of cepol in recent months has affected its smooth functioning. in these circumstances, cepol has difficulty attracting and retaining motivated staff. the rapporteur therefore believes that the proper functioning of this important agency requires a rapid decision on its future seat. the proposal submitted by the hungarian government to host cepol in budapest meets all the requirements and is, in the rapporteur's opinion, of a high quality. this assessment is supported by the fact that almost all member states have signed the legislative initiative to change cepol's seat, thus expressing the overwhelming support of the council for the new seat. the rapporteur supports the proposal and believes that it should be adopted swiftly. the question of the siege must be resolved urgently. however, this should not unnecessarily delay the adaptation of the existing cepol legal framework to the lisbon treaty and the new ambitions of the european law enforcement training programme. the rapporteur therefore hopes that the new european commission will soon propose a modernised legislative framework for cepol.
mr president, madam commissioner, in its judgment the court of justice stated that the european directive constitutes a wide-ranging and particularly serious interference with fundamental rights, respect for privacy and the protection of personal data, and that this interference is not limited to what is strictly necessary. i share this view: keeping personal data unjustifiably and for as long as some people want it is unacceptable. it is clear that the 2006 directive needs to be rewritten and, therefore, also several national laws inspired by the directive. on the other hand, swift, safe harbour and pnr [nbsp ]has already been said[nbsp ] collect data in a way that is often abusive, to the detriment of the citizen, individual freedoms and respect for privacy. we now have grounds for calling some of these agreements into question. we're negotiating a free trade agreement with the united states, where personal data can be stored and manipulated at will. the european court of justice reminds those who have never believed us or listened to us that data protection is a core value of our society. to deny this reality is to deny the right to privacy of 500 million european citizens.
on behalf of the s&d group, first of all, thank you to the rapporteur and to the shadow rapporteurs for the good cooperation. we believe, as the s&d group does, that the agreement reached is a good one, because it opens the door to the creation of a european investment vehicle aimed at financing long-term infrastructure projects. these investments are urgently needed. europe needs a trillion euros to achieve the europe 2020 objectives, including transport, telecommunications, energy and infrastructure, and we all know how difficult it is to get bank financing today. governments are in trouble, too. so closing this funding gap over the next few years will be the big challenge of the next term. the value of infrastructure projects financed in the european union fell by more than 50% from over eur 70 billion in 2010 to around eur 34 billion in 2012. in europe, and this is a difference with the united states, the financing of european infrastructure projects depends on bank loans for as much as 75%. and we know that the banks are keeping their fingers crossed, among other things, to meet all kinds of capital requirements and so on. smes therefore face difficulties in obtaining financing. this is shown, for example, by the fact that greek, spanish and italian smes who go to a bank have only a 33% to 50% chance of actually getting a loan. in germany, the figure is as high as 87%. this means that the countries most affected are also having a harder time organising their economic recovery. what is on the table is an important step forward, provided that a number of qualitative requirements are met. the new rules allow both retail and institutional investors to enter an infrastructure project, but that cannot work if investors can withdraw their money at any time. so it was important to get that organized. investors will only be able to withdraw their money at a specified end date of their investment, i.e. early, but under very strict conditions and that must also be clearly communicated in advance. in addition, eltifs have to comply with certain requirements set out in the regulations, in particular the types of long-term assets in which they can be invested, the companies they can invest in, for example infrastructure, transport, renewable energy projects, how their money should be distributed to reduce risks, and so on. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, it is important that there are no links with tax havens. we as parliament have done our job, it is now up to the council to take a swift stand.
on behalf of the alde group we have a very important proposal here, one which makes it very clear that it was particularly difficult for companies to obtain adequate financing during the crisis. as rapporteur, i wrote an own-initiative report a few months ago, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises, to try to get financing back on track there, and this can help. during the crisis, financing was largely dependent on banks, banks that had gotten into trouble. one of the things that is being advocated is to look at how we can provide a more diversified form of financing for small businesses and also for long-term infrastructure projects. this is very necessary at the moment, since governments too are having enormous problems in securing the necessary funds to bring such projects to a successful conclusion. i think this proposal is very timely. at a time when the economy is starting to pick up again, it could provide an additional boost to attract this type of investment both for companies and for long-term infrastructure projects. we have therefore clearly defined what these funds can be used for. we have made it possible at the same time for savings to be activated at retail level through institutional investors, who now have an easier time making effective long-term commitments through these funds so that, for example, road infrastructure, rail infrastructure, but also school building and so on can get more, more incentives than they do today. at the same time, we also note that we have also made some provisions for companies to make it easier for them to raise capital and thus not only depend on bank financing but also to become increasingly dependent on the capital markets. i think that should lead to a more diversified form of financing. of course, we also need the private sector to do this. we have also had to make it possible for private initiative to regain its place, for it to become possible, through a good investment climate, but also through the creation of the right investment vehicles, for private investors to find the private projects to be able to effectively generate economic growth again. so the legislative framework that we have before us offers a solution to all these questions to a large extent. we have ensured that there is in fact sufficient flexibility for the fund managers. we have provided access to a long-term investment fund for different types of investors and at the same time provided stability while keeping a long-term view in mind. the legislative framework must now ensure that much of this funding is restored. at the same time, we must also note that it is partly a means of deterrence. the different types of regulation that we have voted on in this parliament over the last five years, which were necessary to ensure the stability of the financial system, have also sometimes made it more difficult for institutional investors to intervene effectively. we must give the next commission the task of looking at how to create a good investment climate again, how to give institutional investors the space to do their real job, which is to finance the real economy. that would be my mission ... (the president interrupted the speaker) just one more sentence to the commission. i think that for the next commission it's really important to really take a look at how this legislation is affecting institutional investors in coming into the market and finding the right projects to be financed. i think this is one of the core things i would give to the next commission, to take a good look at this after we finish this proposal. i think then that we will really start stimulating the real economy again and hopefully see the growth and jobs that we need.
- i'm the reporter. - we all know that waste is a resource with potential. commission research has shown that full compliance with the eight eu waste legislation, including the regulation we are discussing today and hopefully strengthening in the future, could increase the turnover of the european waste treatment industry by €42 billion by 2020. that could create 400,000 additional jobs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal waste shipments, and it is therefore important to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. the point is to keep waste here and not to dump it unnecessarily in third world countries, where it is treated indiscriminately, in antisocial conditions and sometimes with the use of child labour. the illegal recycling of waste is a serious problem. the commission calculated that if only 1% of waste shipments are illegal, then 2.8 million tonnes of waste are illegally exported every year. the european environmental implementation and enforcement network (impel) and the people who do the checks in ports estimate that about 25% of all waste shipments are effectively illegal. that would mean that some 70 million tons of waste are illegally exported every year. the people in the field also show or tell us that the controls vary greatly from one member state to another. some member states, such as france, carry out virtually no checks. others, like poland, are quite good performers. the commission put forward a proposal in july last year to strengthen the existing regulation on waste shipments. i was appointed rapporteur at the beginning of october 2013. i immediately went to speak to the authorities who are carrying out the checks. i visited the port of antwerp, where i had a very interesting meeting with the customs authorities, the public waste management company, the federal environmental police and also the local magistrate responsible for combating environmental crime. even in that first contact i noticed that the people in the field welcomed the commission's proposal with open arms, but they also had to add some additional elements to this proposal which would increase their impact. i am able to present a very strong dossier today, partly on the basis of those talks and with the very good cooperation with the shadow rapporteurs. it is a strong dossier, which we also took to the council of ministers and in which we finally reached a compromise. the new regulation before us, which we hope to adopt soon, contains a number of important elements: the first. all member states should draw up a risk-based control plan detailing a strategy and objectives for controls on waste shipments and specifying the means to be used for this purpose. there is therefore a need for detailed inspection plans. the second. the inspection services will have more scope to check whether a shipment is legal or not. this means that even without any factual suspicion, the inspectors concerned can request additional information to verify the nature of the shipment, i.e. whether or not it is waste, or its destination, i.e. whether or not the destination is a place where something is being processed in a responsible manner. the third. member states should also provide for a minimum number of physical inspections of installations or waste shipments in accordance with agreed objectives and based on a sound risk assessment. 4. other a harmonised protocol for the collection, recording and reporting of data on the enforcement of the regulation and a comparative table for customs and waste codes will be established. the fifth. in addition, there will be more information exchange between inspection services on the punishment of offences across europe, with a view to greater harmonisation in the future. the sixth. (this was a difficult point in the negotiations with the member states) the monitoring plans must be made public in accordance with the 2003 directive on public access to environmental information, which we adopted in 2004. the directive has several aspects, active and passive dissemination, and we as a parliament wanted to go further in this respect. we have had to reach a compromise with the council on this. that was a difficult point in the council of ministers and it strikes me that in a great many discussions on environmental legislation we still have to push member states hard for openness. that is a sad case. another point of discussion was the date on which the new regulation was to enter into force. we have had to compromise on that too. we wanted to move faster as a parliament. finally, a compromise has been reached between the time proposed by the council and the time proposed by us. this regulation shall therefore enter into force on 1 january 2016. the first inspection plans should be available as of 1 january 2017. i repeat, it is a compromise, but i believe that we can present a good piece of work here and i hope that the people in the field will also be able to reap the benefits, so that they can do their work in an excellent way. i thank all the members who have taken part in this exercise and i hope that we shall soon be able to adopt this regulation by a large majority.
member of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, the legislative proposal which is presented to you here today will make a real difference in combating illegal shipments of waste. as was mentioned by bart staes, it is a compromise, yes, but i think it is a good compromise. as a result, environmental and human health in third countries where european waste currently ends up will be better protected. member states and the european economy will also benefit from reducing illegal waste exports through cost savings, improved access to high quality raw materials and establishment of a level playing field for economic operators. after hearing you all, coming from all political parties, i am convinced that you in the european parliament will confirm and agree to this proposal, and i appreciate that. finally, this is not my last speech during this parliamentary term, but it is my last speech on the point for which, basically, i am responsible, so i would like to thank all the members of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for the work done, for the trust we have established amongst ourselves, for the dedication you have shown. i think with some of you, we have become real true friends, true supporters of the efforts for the common good, so i wish you all every success in the next election campaign, because europe desperately needs not only supporters of europe, but also supporters of care for the environment. thank you for everything that you have done during these last five years; i appreciate it deeply.
- i'm the reporter. - a few weeks ago, the european environment agency in copenhagen published a study on waste, and that study tells us that an ambitious european waste policy could create 860,000 new jobs by 2030 and also reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 415 million tonnes. that is four times the total emissions of the belgian economy. so we have a mission for the next five years. i'd like to do it with you, commissioner potočnik, because you're a visionary man. you were a good environment commissioner, you have been a commissioner for ten years now. we have worked very well together over the last ten years and i would like to thank you very much for that. finally, as mrs gerbrandy has said, we have shown with this dossier that the european parliament and the council can work quickly. we've been through this in nine months. it was not an easy task, but we have shown that we can legislate in nine months. finally, a final word of thanks to axel singhofen, who is our parliamentary assistant, our expert. i think that many groups envy us the quality of the work that this man does and i want to thank him very specifically for this, because he has contributed to the success of this regulation.
member of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, i am replying on behalf of my colleague, commissioner kallas. mr[nbsp ]simpson, i fully share the concerns you raise in your questions. member states and the commission must apply the road transport acquis correctly to protect the rights of those working in the transport sector and to ensure road safety and the proper functioning of the internal market. effective enforcement of european union legislation is important, particularly when it comes to the conditions that road haulage operators must fulfil. one of these conditions is stable and effective establishment. letterbox companies should not be set up or, if they exist, they must be closed down. however, the commission depends on information from the member states when it comes to the number of letterbox companies closed down. according to the relevant regulation, member states must report every two years their enforcement activities, including the withdrawal of road haulage licences. the commission received the first reports in december 2013. it has started analysing them and it will soon report on its conclusions. member states who have failed to report may soon face infringement procedures. our preliminary analysis shows that member states are finding it difficult to enforce certain parts of the regulation and other parts of the regulation are insufficient – for instance when member states must only check whether undertakings satisfy the criterion of stable and effective establishment once every five years until the end of 2014 but not thereafter. the commission therefore considers that this requirement could be strengthened. coming to your second and third questions about cross-border enforcement and controls, the commission, together with the member states, is working with great persistence to improve their effectiveness. member states have to carry out concerted checks with other member states at least six times a year. to give enforcement officers access to information about undertakings abroad, member states have to connect their register with the european register of road transport undertakings. several member states have not yet connected their national registers to the european register of road transport undertakings. this hampers cross-border enforcement. the commission has started infringement procedures against these members states – seven of these are still pending. the commission also funds projects to harmonise the training of control officers. the trace project for digital tachograph checks has now been completed and the closer project on a broader set of topics started just a short time ago. to reach a common understanding of applicable road transport legislation, the commission works with member states to adopt guidance and clarification notes on existing rules. twelve of these are already available. in addition, the commission requests member states to carry out individual checks on road haulage undertakings whenever it obtains evidence those companies are failing to meet their obligations, including the one on stable and effective establishment. most recently, the commission has taken action following a written question submitted by a member of the european parliament, ole christensen. concerning your fourth and final question, the enforcement of driving time and rest periods by member states is being progressively harmonised. the enforcement directive sets minimum requirements for controls and defines a common range of infringements against social rules. it also provides member states with tools to target checks and make them more efficient. national enforcement authorities can rely on data from the digital tachograph to check compliance with driving times and rest periods. the tachograph is gradually being improved and made more tamper-proof. as mentioned before, the commission cooperates with member states to better enforce driving time and rest periods. this includes the adoption of guidance notes, clarification notes, recommendations and training manuals for enforcers. to conclude, the commission strives to guarantee efficient and uniform enforcement practices throughout europe in cooperation with the member states, which are responsible for day-to-day enforcement. effective enforcement is an essential part of a well-functioning road transport market. it is not easy, but we are committed to improving the situation which members have painted. thank you for your interest in this important topic. i look forward to the debate.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not thank you very much for your answer, commissioner. i would say that this question at the end of a legislative term is almost a programme for the future. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. the measures we have been able to take - driving and rest periods on the one hand, and the rules of the establishment on the other - have, in my view, already provided the first instruments. but we must note - and i can say this as a resident of a border area - that in our area, for example, companies send lorries on the road and lorry drivers are then on the road for up to six months. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. what is worse is that when checks are carried out, there is no possibility of penalties. we know this issue here too. we have tried to put together important penalties, to convince the countries that this is being harmonised in some form. i'm afraid that didn't happen. these are the accents we want to set for the future. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the issue here is not simply the principle of checks. it is a question of maintaining important economic sectors. in our region, people pay proper wages, they also provide proper working conditions and they also pay proper taxes. this must not be ruined by a small number of smaller firms which do not respect the right of establishment and do not respect driving and rest periods. that's what this is about! it is, of course, about the quality of life of the people who work there, but it is also about entire sectors of the economy. we therefore want to see - and the commission's report which has just been published has clearly shown - that the first priority in road transport is to see how to avoid social dumping. the second is: how can we convince countries that what is already there is better implemented? these were the aims of the questions we asked here. in this sense, i really want to ask for the future that driving and rest periods - for example, that someone cannot under any circumstances spend extended rest periods in a lorry - should be much better controlled and that the commission should also pay more attention to the fact that the countries control this. because this can't be the future. and if tomorrow one high-rise houses seven trucking companies, even though we have determined that much more practical things need to be provided - parking and office space - then that's not going to happen. i think this is the credibility of the policy we need for the future, a partnership between the eu and the countries, where control is not a sport but a means of maintaining the industries. i am grateful for your reply, but i hope that in the near future we will be able to launch a number of initiatives in this field together with the member states.
on behalf of the s&d group, the president of the transport committee, brian simpson, has already summed up very well the problems in the road transport sector, social dumping and so on. it was absolutely important for my group to have clarity before the end of this parliamentary term on the commission's actions and approach, particularly the application of regulation 1071. we remain very concerned about social dumping and abuse in the sector. this leads not only to social drama but also to unequal playing field for the companies. we have succeeded in improving legislation in various areas on a regular basis over the past few years. we must think of the new digital tachograph that is to come. but it is necessary to apply this legislation on the ground and the careless way in which member states are implementing the legislation is totally unacceptable. regulation 1071 was intended to lead to the extinction of the mailbox companies by a clear definition of what a transport company should be. it's not just about reporting. the commission has also proposed a european register of transport companies, which would enable inspection services to check whether a foreign company is reliable. this should have been operational a long time ago. hence the additional request to act quickly and coherently. i repeat what we have said before, we will oppose further flexibilization of the cabotage rules, as the commission wants, unless working conditions in the sector improve drastically.
road transport is an important link in our european economy. it is also true that the transport of goods will soon and hopefully with the recovery of the economy increase again. it is therefore important that we try to root out all the fraudulent structures we see in this sector today. europe has already taken a number of initiatives in this direction. we have the regulation on driving and rest periods, we have the legislation on the digital tachograph, we also have the european register of road transport undertakings and we have regulation 1071 on access to the profession. but that regulation on paper is one thing. if we find that there are still real abuses in this sector, that there is really social dumping, that fraudulent structures are being set up and that workers are even being exploited, then we cannot accept that. it is also up to the european commission and the member states to work together to ensure that european legislation is effectively applied in practice, that there are sufficient checks and that those who do not follow the rules are excluded, so that those companies who do play by the rules also have a chance. (the president agreed to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
"blue card" is the answer. it is clear that any company operating on our european market must play by the european rules of the game that we have jointly established. so member states must take strong action against people who try to circumvent these rules through various structures. we must give all the opportunities on our market to companies which want to play by the rules, to play by european laws. that's the most essential thing we can do. of course, it is not permissible for the workers themselves to be involved in such a system of long hours, of disregard for driving and rest periods. the member states, together with the commission, must take strong action against this.
if there are illegal aliens in some member states who are detained for more than 18 months, there is a reason for that. in the vast majority of cases this is because the countries of origin refuse to take back these illegals, or because many illegals themselves refuse to say what nationality they have or where they come from, hoping that this will prevent them from being sent back. we should do everything possible to avoid this kind of situation, but the commission and this parliament are doing the opposite. the rules are set up in such a way that the rights of illegal aliens outweigh the rights of the member states and their citizens. the return policy should be based on the principle of non-refoulement, which is a fundamental principle of the return policy. the maximum period of 18 months of detention, for example, should be renewable. this is what needs to be done, rather than imposing sanctions on member states that want to combat illegal immigration effectively. once again, it is clear that the eu has lost touch with reality, but the verdict of the voters on 25 may will be all the more harsh in a few weeks' time.
the agenda calls for voting time. for the record, during this parliamentary term, the assembly voted 20 696 votes in plenary and adopted 35 295 amendments, excluding today's amendments. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
we welcome mr petro poroshenko, co-chair of the parliamentary committee on eu-ukraine cooperation. thank you for being here today. - before the vote:
the 22nd was amended by amendment 5, mrs. ford. therefore, the original text has been changed. it is replaced by amendment no 5. this closes voting time.
in writing. with the recent enlargement of the european union, it was necessary to reaffirm the good relations we have with our neighbours. this memorandum of understanding with the republic of albania confirms the good political and commercial understanding we have with them and, more broadly, with all the balkan countries, in particular by bringing concrete benefits in terms of trade relations and by promoting cultural exchanges.
in writing. norway is a privileged partner of the european union. it is part of the european economic area, an associate member of the schengen area and actively participates in the dublin ii regulation, which aims to regulate asylum applications and, above all, which country is competent to deal with an asylum application. it is vital, therefore, that we maintain this privileged relationship. i fully support the arrangement between the european union and the kingdom of norway to cooperate as much as possible on key issues such as asylum policy.
in writing. the principality of liechtenstein, as a member of the european economic area, the european free trade association and an associate member of the schengen area, has increasingly close links with the european union. it benefits from the mechanisms provided for by the dublin convention and has access to eurodac data (recognising the fingerprints of asylum seekers). improving cooperation on asylum with the principality of liechtenstein was essential and will greatly help a more coherent asylum policy.
in writing. the crisis in ukraine now threatens the whole of the eastern partnership. the european union must make a strong gesture to support the sovereignty and territorial integrity of its eastern neighbours, first and foremost ukraine. the increasing tensions in eastern ukraine are leading the region to developments similar to those we have seen in crimea. i condemn any act of intimidation by russia and urge the russian authorities to immediately withdraw the troops deployed along the border with ukraine. we also welcome the decision of the council of ministers to launch a european union observer mission to ukraine. i believe that strong international diplomatic action at all levels, accompanied by a process of negotiations, is necessary to ease tensions and pave the way for de-escalation. this process should ensure a stable outcome in order to allow ukraine to continue its progress towards democracy. it is a question of defending the eastern partnership and supporting the countries of our eastern neighbourhood which share european values.
in writing. the liberal and democratic group is naturally in favour of free trade and related trade agreements. it is also the best expression of an economy open to the world, of a policy of the outstretched hand, with rules that bind the parties to the agreement by contract. this is the opposite of the "letting go" that unbridled globalization sometimes imposes on governments and their citizens. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. of course, this agreement is less important from a strategic point of view than the much-publicized eu-us transatlantic trade and investment agreement, but it is nonetheless necessary to strengthen the links between europe and asia. the resolution also sets out interesting paths for both economies to follow, such as trade opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises through the financing of local renewable energy projects and trade in environmental goods and technologies. for its part, vietnam will have to do more and better in the fight against counterfeiting, a real international scourge.
author. - mr president, this is the fourth time in a year that we will be voting on a resolution on syria. given the failure of geneva ii, the fragmentation of the opposition, the rise of terrorist groups and the immobility of the regime, it is unlikely that any further resolution will change anything about the plight of the syrian people. but we want this resolution, because nothing is worse than silence about the atrocities that have been committed! we wanted it first of all to evoke the death or disappearance of men and women whose commitment to human rights, tolerance and freedom of expression and conscience was beyond doubt. i am thinking of zaitouneh, a human rights activist from the early days in syria, who refused to leave her country and is now kidnapped with her husband and relatives. i think of the courage of father paolo, whom i knew well in syria in the years 2005-2008, whom i saw again in europe when he started his crusade to ask for help from the insurgents and who returned to syria despite the risks. we haven't heard from him either. i am thinking of father van der lugt, who chose to remain with the christians and muslims of homs, without distinction. he died with them, too. behind these names are many exceptional men and women, who gave their lives so that the hopes for democracy and freedom of the first hour of the uprising of 2011 would not be betrayed and to alleviate or simply share the suffering and death of the local people. but the tide has turned since 2011: two phenomena have emerged. the first is related to the conflicts and persecutions that affect ethnic and religious minorities today, fuelled both by the regime and by external influences, which weigh heavily on this proxy war. it would be denialism to deny the religious resentment and murderous madness that animated the insurgents in the siege of maaloula. i had the opportunity, during my trip to syria last year, to meet with survivors and families of the victims and to hear the testimonies of the attack and the executions. maaloula is a strategic location on the damascus-homs road but it is also a symbolic christian city where aramaic is still spoken. the same is true of the armenian town of kessab, which is also strategically important, but not only from a military point of view: it is primarily christian. the second movement that we see, and it's very sad, is the presence of well-organized, well-funded terrorist groups, of criminal jihadists, who kill in the name of islam. the minorities are caught between a regime which not only no longer protects them but persecutes them and the religious frenzy of the jihadists, with whom the opposition has sometimes carried out joint operations but also fought at the risk of their lives. these terrorist networks, which are taking advantage of the chaos of war to establish themselves permanently, are a threat to the whole region and to europe as well, and their financing is questionable. all minorities suffer doubly from war: as citizens and as religious or ethnic targets. it is our duty, as well as that of the syrian government and the entire international community, to protect them. i would like to thank my colleagues on thursday afternoon for sharing this very special moment of the session with me. it has created surprising bridges between political groups and it has been a privilege, mr posselt, to be part of it with you.
mr president, is this - the test does not seem to work - a new concept of secret voting, in the sense that we are not allowed to know who we are voting for?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all, welcome to the new group leaders who are here, mr weber, mr pittella and mr kamall. you will see we are a funny club. there are the most sympathetic people – mr de backer, of course, and ms zimmer. the most outspoken one, naturally, is mr farage. and, as you will see, i am the most disciplined one in the house. (laughter) let us be honest about it, the most important outcome of this european council was one thing: the nomination of jean-claude juncker as candidate-president of the european commission. i do not understand all the criticism that has been addressed to mr pittella, to the effect that the process is not democratic. the procedure is exactly the same as that for david cameron’s nomination in the british parliament. so i don’t see any problem. i recognise the british democracy as a real democracy, and it is time, too, to recognise that this parliament is the real european-level democracy of the european continent. (applause)so far from criticising it, i think it is a big victory for the european parliament – and more so, in fact, for european democracy and europe’s citizens – that mr juncker has been proposed. we are now, in my opinion, entering what i see as the second phase of the process, because it is up to mr juncker now, in the same way that it works in the british parliament and british democracy, to assemble a majority around him: to create a coalition. in my opinion, it has to be a broad coalition, a stable coalition, a pro-european coalition, creating a majority of people and groups who want to negotiate a programme and to have a new strategy for change for this european union. when i talk about change, i am talking about real change – not what mr kamall is calling for. he used the word ‘change’ at least 10 times, but what he calls change i call blocking progress. it involves leaving the euro, breaking up schengen, stalling labour mobility and abandoning all european common policies – so less integration and less europe, and that is not change, that is regression. (applause)what does the word ‘conservative’ mean? [interjection from the floor] ‘nothing’? well, yes, that is a good explanation, but if it means anything it means the status quo. conservative equals status quo, and that is what we do not want in the european union today. this part-session and the next one will be two very important weeks. we have to decide on a new leader for the commission and we also have to take a new step forward in our relationship with the commission. let us be honest, we have to replace mr barroso with a new president of the commission, one who does not simply walk into this house, deliver a speech, without always listening to us, and then walk out and implement the wishes of the council. that is what has mainly been happening over the past few years, and we have to change that. it is possible to do so because this new president of the commission – and here lies the key change –will be backed by a coalition and will be accountable. for us it will be very important that the key priorities are in place. there has to be a new plan delors. austerity plus growth is necessary inside the union. there should be a new approach on migration, on civil liberties, on lgbt rights and on privacy regulation and, most of all, we need a commission that really uses its right of initiative every time we as parliament ask it to do so. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i can only say one thing. i have seen mr juncker together with mr schulz and ms ska keller, who is not here, and mr josé bové, in all the debates for this european parliament. he has been fully involved in this european election. i did not see you in this european election. i did not even see mr cameron in this european election. after the european election, he came forward to say that a number of things had to be changed, that mr juncker could not be nominated. so, in my opinion, this is real european democracy – these debates and this public opinion.
blue-card question. – mr farage, what are you doing here? what i heard is basically the speech of the leader of the opposition –(inaudible interruption by mr verhofstadt)– in the house of commons. if you want to hold that kind of speech, get elected there. what are you doing here? (applause)the reason why you are speaking here is that you have enlisted continental europeans into your group just to be able to boast as a british citizen who wants to get out of the european union. if you want to be considered as the leader of a european political group, then make speeches worthy of a european political leader. (applause)
in writing. greece had a challenge to face on the european and international stage. in january, it took over the six-monthly presidency of the european union after months of symbolizing the eurozone crisis. even if the crisis has not been completely overcome, as the social situation in greece itself shows, the challenge of the rotating presidency has been met. athens can take credit for some successes, such as the completion of the banking union, one of the lessons of the crisis, which it shares with the commission, because a rotating presidency, whatever it may be, is a long diplomatic work carried out behind the scenes with all the institutions and the member states. these presidencies are part of the european agenda, which is particularly busy in the first half of 2014, with the management of the ukrainian crisis and the holding of european elections in the 28 member states, which has put the work of the greek presidency on hold in recent weeks. the greek presidency ends on monday. athens passes the baton to rome until the end of the year. italy will also have to be part of this post-election period, which will see the establishment of the new parliament and the new commission.
on behalf of the group the commission italy is a great country, a founding member of the european union, and has always defended the community approach in europe, and it is true that italy is experiencing strong pressure and growing anti-european sentiment because of the crisis. there's no denying that. so, mr president, we are counting on you to reaffirm your country's commitment to europe, to relaunch the european project and the project as envisaged by altiero spinelli and to restore to italy, in the good tradition of romano prodi, a central role as a motor of european integration and not to waste time, as berlusconi did when he lost ten years speaking at the european council on women and football: that is not important, i think, in europe. mr president, this is a crucial time in europe. i want to continue with the discussion we have been having here in the european parliament. it is not the first time; if you come tomorrow we will be having exactly the same discussion: a discussion on austerity and growth, saying to public opinion that there is an opposition between them. i believe that there is no opposition between austerity, which is needed for sustainable growth in the medium and long term, and, at the same time, a strategy for growth in the future. there is no opposition. we are stuck and blocked in the european union between the discussion between mr krügman on one side and mr ferguson on the other; between a socialist government in france mr hollande and on the other hand mrs merkel of germany, who are in fact opposing different positions. it is merkel against hollande, or maybe the other way round. what we need now is to recognise that austerity and growth are in fact two sides of the same coin, and that the only possibility is that you need austerity; you need to continue, and to apply the rules that mr weber is right in asking for, but at the same time, the problem in europe is that we did not have a growth strategy and a growth package. we have, for the first time, to be intelligent, and not to think in old schemes, or that it is by deficit spending by making new debts at national level that you can create sustainable growth. you have to use europe for growth. we need to use a new package a delors package in the new sectors of digital and investment in energy to have this growth. it is not at national level, with debt in italy of 132 % of gdp how can you create growth in italy? it is not possible. we have and that is the role you must now play to say to the colleagues in the european council and to ask the european commission for a second delors package, as we did in the 1980s you will remember that there was also a crisis in europe; there was no euroscepticism, they were not there. there was eurosclerosis, which was even better than euroscepticism at that moment. at that moment it was delors who came forward with a package to create an internal market and to launch this internal market. we don't have it in a number of crucial sectors not in digital, telecommunication, energy or capital markets for the moment. the consequence is that small and medium companies still have to pay interest rates of 6-8% while the banks receive money from the european central bank at a record, historically-low interest rate. that is your task now: to launch this kind of new delors package. then i am very sure that europe can emerge from the crisis. let us use the european union as an engine of growth, as the engine to emerge from the crisis, and not believe any longer in the old style of deficit spending programs at national level that are not sustainable, because the market will never accept them if countries are making new debt by simply increasing interest rates. i hope you can do that. you're a reformer, we know that. that is how you have been elected at the head of the pd and then later as the prime minister in italy, and you are also representing a fantastic country. you are representing italy, which is the basis of the european union. it is the basis of our conscience, of our history and of our civilization. so make it work and make it true. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 1628)
blue-card answer. – i think that what is happening with the youth in europe is really a tragedy, let us be honest, certainly in italy, in spain and in all these countries. today 25 % of young people are unemployed, but i do not think it is right to say to them ‘ok, by taking on more debt, you will find a job in the next five or 10 years’. that is not true. what we need to do in europe is collect private savings. there is massive private money in private savings in europe. use it to invest, not what has been done with the project bonds of the european commission. that is the loch ness monster of the european union. every time when we talk about growth and we go there, we have eur 200 million in project bonds to launch. it is not like that. what we need is to invest massively in future bonds, in the future infrastructure of the european union, in digital, in energy, in the capital markets – that is what we need. then we can give hope to the young people, not by putting old stories on the table again.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr president renzi, what i was told was true: you are a talented, passionate and energetic speaker. you are lucky because in the next six months, you will be able to demonstrate to us that you exercise with the same talent, the same passion and the same energy the ministry of action! first of all, about this debate you had on stability and growth - a word i have banned from my vocabulary - i just want to say that you are in luck because the european economic governance texts - the two-pack, the six-pack, the eu 2020 strategy - all come up for review, mid-term review. in six months' time we shall have to examine whether we have not gone astray and can therefore question these policies which ultimately boil down to one thing, namely austerity, that is to say, how to make the most vulnerable pay the price of the crisis? you have the opportunity to demonstrate to us, by putting these texts to work, how you want to rework the european economic governance apparatus and there are at least three areas in which i think you can score points. are you prepared to move forward to make social objectives mandatory, for example reducing poverty and inequality? to make binding - this is already partly true - environmental objectives? the question is now being asked - yannick jadot said it - of binding targets for energy efficiency, co2 reduction and renewable energy. are you going to make this objective binding because it is only what we measure that we get, that it is only the constraint that moves us forward? will you also make this european economic governance democratic again? today, the way things are going, parliaments are no longer really involved in economic and social policy choices, either at european or national level. the democratic deficit, the social deficit, the environmental deficit: there is a lot of work to be done if you want to change economic governance! in terms of taxation, there is no sustainable public finances without responsible expenditure, but neither is there sustainable revenue. we are well aware that with €1 000 billion of tax evasion and avoidance per year, there is also a lot of money to be made! will you, as president of the italian council, ensure that by the end of your term, automatic exchange of information is the norm, not only in the field of taxation of savings but in general, between european tax administrations? will you ensure that the whole issue of harmonizing corporate taxation, starting with the harmonization of the tax base, is closed? i would like to address you in particular, as the head of one of the two governments reputed to be socialist in europe - that of france and italy - because it seems to me that, as far as the financial transaction tax is concerned, rome and paris are the two capitals which are making the greatest effort to empty the draft financial transaction tax of all content. we started with a project whose objective was to bring in more than 100 billion a year, and we may be at 5 billion: it has become a small stamp duty tax like in the united kingdom, which is three times nothing. energy and climate: what energy union? will you choose donald tusk's formula, which is to set up a joint purchasing power station to buy our gas from russia, or will you make the energy union a project whose objective is independence from the european union through the use of renewable energy and energy efficiency? it is a matter of strategy, a matter of climate and a matter of employment. finally, i should like to conclude without mentioning social europe. if you are a president who is considered a socialist - i do not know whether the democratic party is a socialist party, but whatever - will you bring forward this european unemployment insurance project, which your colleague is pushing with all his energy, before the end of his term in the european commission? in other words, you have a job to do. we'll be waiting for you at the foot of the wall. we hear you have a lot of energy left, and we'd like to see the results.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i think that we can say that it is an historic day. not because of all the rhetoric we have heard this morning, but because we stand here to elect the president of the commission and not, as was the case until now, by mainly rubber-stamping the choice of the council. we participated in that both of us, dear jean-claude. this time it is the voters in fact who have the last word and i think that by voting for mr juncker today – let us say it, let us say it openly, it is difficult for a certain part of this parliament to accept it – but by doing so we establish once and for all real european democracy in which the voters are deciding what is happening … (applause)… and it is not by accident that it is happening. it is the result of the long, long way that we have walked together, it is the result of the convention we established in 2001 and – let me say it very openly – it is also the result of the perseverance of a number of parliamentarians, of at least two dedicated europeans that i want to mention today in this debate: andrew duff and elmar brok, andrew who is no longer here and elmar who will always be here in my opinion. but i have to tell you for once he is not here. normally he is always there – on 199 – but they are still fighting with each other about who in fact invented this proposal in the convention to elect the commission by the european parliament. so my first message of today – i have to tell you, jean-claude – is not so much for you. my message today is for those members, mainly in the big groups, who intend to vote against you. and i want to tell these people in these two big groups, and maybe in other groups, that by doing so what they are doing is intending to side with the anti-europeans. in fact failing their voters, because what their voters are asking – that is their choice, and the choice made by them fell on mr juncker – should be followed. i find the irony of today is that today in fact the anti-europeans like mr kamall would deny the choice of the voters and apparently prefer the old system of backroom deals which mr cameron likes so much. so today by voting for you we are giving a clear green light because you have taken on board a number of our proposals. the main proposal is that we have to stop this choice of what i call ‘austerity or growth’ – as though there was an opposition between them. everybody knows that we need both of them and after five years i hope that you will lead a commission doing both – that is fiscal discipline on the one hand and a growth pact on the other hand. because we all know that without fiscal discipline, without respect for the stability pact, there is no growth possible in the medium term and we have to accept that. on the other hand we know also that if we want to have growth we have to go beyond the fiscal discipline and we have to have a growth package, as has been proposed now in your programme. the second reason, mr juncker, why we are pleased with your programme and we shall support you, is that you also say a number of things on migration, legal migration – finally we are talking about that; it was a forbidden area in the european union until now – and also about values, and that you will entrust a commissioner with specific responsibility for the rule of law. however, i have to contradict you on one thing, and that is, whatever the diversity of our constitutional systems or our cultural traditions, fundamental rights are fundamental. we cannot discuss them. if they are fundamental values everybody has to respect them, whatever the traditions are in the european union. and the third commitment that you are making, and it was an important point for us, is the fact that you will have a real gender-balanced commission, and let us hope that you can also achieve that goal. finally, mr juncker, i want to ask you three things because you will now be leading the commission. three things: first of all, return – you have said it yourself – to the community method, because all the intergovernmental arrangements we have made in the last five years were not an example of good governance for europe. secondly, my most important point, please don’t do as your predecessor did: use your right of initiative. don’t start to phone berlin, paris and then london and rome before putting a legislative package on the table of the council and the parliament. do it because your commission is ready to do it, has the courage to do it and not because there is a decision of the european council. and do not listen only to the european council. from time to time – why not every day? – listen to the european parliament too, because we are equal as an institution. and finally, create again a vision for europe. that we need. you feel that when you see a number of people, they are lost in europe, because the vision is no longer there. create the vision that it is only by more integration of the european union that we can emerge from the crisis, like we did in the 80s. and if you are doing that i can tell you that you will find us by your side all the way. all 68, mr commissioner. (applause)
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when 27 million of our fellow citizens, including 6 million young people, are not only unemployed, but without any prospect of employment. when 25% of europeans, or one in four europeans, are below the poverty and social exclusion threshold, when 10% of us own 60% of the collective wealth of europeans, the very existence of our societies is at stake. my friends, when the climate is so unstable that we could envisage a global temperature increase of more than 6 degrees, when 30% of the planet's non-renewable resources have been used up in the last 30 years, when a third of the species still alive are threatened with extinction by 2050, it is the very existence of our societies that is threatened. ladies and gentlemen, when democratically elected governments are subjected daily to the blackmail of both the financial markets and the dictatorship or permanent blackmail of financial institutions deemed too big to be allowed to go bankrupt; when increasingly unelected experts directly influence, even write, laws that apply to all of us, when in the name of freedom or profit sometimes, our privacy and our freedoms are compromised, it is democracy that is at stake. i say, dear friends, that time is running out. so, jean-claude juncker, will you be the man? will you be the man of a union, a real tax union? because there is no sustainable public finances without controlled spending, nor without sustainable revenues. when a trillion euros escape the public treasury every year through the magic of tax competition, opacity and money laundering, clearly the soundness of our public finances is at stake. there is no future for a single currency without financial solidarity within that currency area. will you be the man of a social union? a social union which replaces the dogma of competition between our social protection systems with a convergence of our social protection systems? so let us start by introducing minimum wages and incomes throughout the european union and by abolishing this initiative which many of you here like, called refit, which, under the guise of involvement and elimination of bureaucracy, aims to reduce our social and environmental standards, and all this without an american treaty. will you be the man of an energy union which is not just a gas buying union but which is really the instrument of an industrial policy which, through renewables, energy efficiency and the networking of our energy distribution networks, will make europe the world champion in the greening of the economy? will you be the man of a europe that finally speaks with one voice and that is not the laughing stock of vladimir putin for his action in ukraine or considered a negligible amount by all parties and, unfortunately, they are numerous in the multiple conflicts in the middle east? i shall conclude with the question which i consider to be fundamental: will you be the man responsible for a re-democratization not only of the european institutions but of europe itself? today this is what our fellow citizens are calling into question above all. it is about ensuring that our parliaments - not just the european parliament but parliaments at national level - are really involved in political decision-making. the social partners must be involved whenever matters affecting them are discussed. it is also a question of ensuring that our fellow citizens are increasingly directly involved. we have the european citizens' initiative, we need a much more participatory democracy. the aim, of course, is to ensure that lobbyists of all kinds are returned to their business, that is to say, to defending their particular interests. it's not their job to write the laws. will you be that man? you'd be inclined to believe that, if you listened to you. i mean that sincerely. i know you from the committee on economic and monetary affairs; i followed you; we're not exactly the same age, but we'd be inclined to believe you. but we cannot forget who are the people who support you today. i must say that the three main political families who support you today, or at any rate will support you, are also the political families that have been in power in europe for decades. if they wanted to do something else, i think we would have seen it already. i cannot help but make the connection with what i heard yesterday from mario draghi in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. i have heard only one thing from him: structural reforms, reducing public spending, reducing taxes, increasing the flexibility of the labour market. obviously for this gentleman, the things that happened on may 25th have no meaning. in conclusion, i would like to say that we are divided. because for many of us, the mechanism that brought you here today is clearly a modest but real step towards a more democratic europe. i will be careful - and gabrielle zimmer is right - about this being the democratic revolution that will magically make europe a democratic institution, but it is a step in that direction. and so for that, a number of us want to support you. but it is true that another important part of our group is not confident, wonders who is supporting you today and wonders whether you will be able to bring about the radical changes that europe needs. whatever happens and whatever the outcome of the vote, mr juncker, you should know that whenever your commission puts before this house proposals that respond to the challenges of our time, that want to make europe again an area of shared prosperity, an area of sustainable prosperity and a democratic area, we will stand by you. (applause) i would like to thank
i read on the press releases that today, again, ukrainian soldiers are being killed on the border with russia in attacks by pro-russian militias. civilians are also being killed every day. both countries accuse each other of border violations. everyone can see that it doesn't take much more to escalate this conflict. the union must be stronger and do everything possible to silence the guns. that can only happen if we stop russia from carrying out its crimean scenario in eastern ukraine, if we stop russia from destabilising the country. putin may say he wants peace, but his actions prove otherwise. in the meantime, mr füle, i would ask you to pay particular attention to the pressing problem of the tens of thousands of refugees. they're in russia, they're in ukraine itself. there they are not so visible, but they are there, in the tens of thousands, and they are causing a humanitarian crisis. they are dependent on charity and on themselves. and it's happening right on our border! it will not be long before we ourselves feel the consequences if we do not recognize the urgency of this. the association agreement with the european union may offer long-term prospects, but the public is not buying into them. (the speaker agrees to answer a question in the form of a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
"blue card" is the answer. of course, a reference to history can never justify what russia is doing right now: operating in a kind of gray area. this is not allowed and cannot be done. it is against all international agreements. the referendum in crimea is an insult to the very concept of a referendum. this can never be justified. europe must indeed come out of the corner stronger. then europe must indeed think of sanctions that will have an effect.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr lambsdorff, i am going to defend the confederal group of the european united left/nordic green left here, simply because if some people already today think that the ttip project is not worth pursuing, it is not because of fundamentalism, it is simply because we know very well what the objective of this treaty is. we are still being told about 0.5 per cent growth. you know, i come from a business background, and my habit is to do a cost-benefit analysis. the benefit is not even sure that it exists but even assuming that it exists, who pays the cost in terms of reducing environmental, social and health standards? who is paying the biggest price in terms of lowering democratic standards? because the problem with this european parliament is not only that it is not consulted, but that if we put in place the principle of mutual recognition of standards, we can close this shop. we can shut it! and it's the american multinationals that will make the laws for us.
mr president, i should like to raise three points quickly. we shall have ample opportunity to return to this agreement and to this debate. i am pleased to note the commissioner's very firm commitment. our health, social and environmental standards are not negotiable, you said, mr de gucht. this is a blow to many of the fantasies that were conveyed during the campaign by the opponents of the agreement. so no hormone-laced beef, and no chlorinated chicken, either. we shall be vigilant about this commitment, a silent vigilance, i might even say. secondly, the famous isds, the investor-state procedure which has been suspended, because it raises so many questions. it will take time, you said, to learn from it. in any case, given the sensitivity, the very explosiveness of this subject, why not simply trust our common law justice system which, it seems to me, works well on both sides of the atlantic? finally, an even more fundamental question: the risk of divorce with our opinions. does the european commission realise that it is losing this battle of public opinion in some member states? i note that the ministers concerned are silent in all the languages. so, here we are, the first blockage, commissioner. he is not a technician, he is a citizen and this duty to explain is more than a priority, it is an emergency.
mr president, i will simply repeat to you, mr de gucht, the few points my group has been constantly reminding you of, which will determine whether or not we will indeed support this ttip at the end of the process. first, transparency - we have talked a lot about this - of the negotiation process, which is not just saying that the five thousand pages of documents are in a searchable room but which requires that you, you, make them understandable to everyone. secondly, the defence of social, environmental and health standards and, above all, the guarantee for us, the states as europe, but also as member states, to be able to continue to make regulations in the interests of our fellow citizens. the third point, which has also been discussed a lot, is the exclusion of the isds mechanism. and the fourth point is to defend our public service and to exclude the cultural sector. so mr juncker told us this morning how much he supports the points i have just mentioned and the points which are the markers that the socialists have put on you. i hope, commissioner, that the three months remaining in this commission will be used to correct the situation, because unfortunately today the commission has given us no guarantees on these points.
in writing. if the commission remains deaf to the signals sent by the european parliament and the citizens it represents, the only vote could be a rejection of the final text. the belgian socialists have set a number of benchmarks from the outset, namely: the transparency of the negotiations; the maintenance of social, environmental and health standards; the exclusion of the mechanism which prevents a state from regulating under penalty of being attacked by an investor in a private jurisdiction (rdie); a prior european regulation on data protection which must be respected by the agreement; the protection of public services and the exclusion from the agreement of sectors such as health or culture, etc. we do not want a new acta. the treaty must be drafted with the general interest as the top priority and not that of a few multinationals. today, even if the commission says that it is extending the labels, it does not give sufficient guarantees to remove doubts. so she's risking her life to negotiate for nothing! we will be firm on the boundaries we set over a year ago. there is no question of selling the rights of european citizens.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the italian presidency for its willingness to discuss this priority in relation to the protection of women. let us not forget that not moving forward on this directive is not a status quo, it is a return to a situation dating back to 1992. are there any laws or situations in the field of social protection today which date back to 1992 and which cannot be improved upon? it is essential that we can move forward on this directive. withdrawing this directive is damaging. it is harmful to the message that the commission would send to those thousands of women who are waiting for more protection, but above all it deprives itself of a tool that would enable the commission to achieve its employment objective. let us not forget the employment target of 75% by 2020. we should also not forget that today the pregnant woman and the young mother are both the most vulnerable workers and the crisis has only made the situation of these workers worse. we need measures that do not penalise mothers. measures must be taken to ensure that they have the opportunity to reconcile private life and work. measures are needed to enable them to live with dignity and a decent wage. measures are needed to protect them when they return to work and to safeguard their careers. there's a lot of talk about the glass ceiling. this ceiling is also due to the question of motherhood, which, again, is detrimental to the exercise of a function among women. if europe is to regain the trust of its citizens, it must demonstrate its ability to guarantee rights, equality and justice. that is what this directive is about.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if the commission wants to continue to tarnish the image of the european institution, it will withdraw this draft directive. but she won't. why would you do that? because now, after a few years of hesitation, the elements are in place for us to succeed. the italian presidency is being very deliberate on this. parliament has just appointed a new rapporteur, mrs alessandra moretti, and with the fictitious rapporteurs from all the political groups, we can succeed. we have to succeed where we have failed in the past because there were two clearly defined positions. one may be too voluntary with 20 weeks fully paid and the other, perhaps too timid with 14 weeks. there is a way to find a middle ground. this is the art we must practice today in this parliament in the interests of all european women, or at least the majority of them, to advance their rights. and as a man, i would also like to advocate paternity leave which allows, in perhaps two weeks, as is the case in many countries, for the man to be a parent as well and to be able to become aware of his role as a parent from the moment the child arrives in the family, from the beginning, at the maternity level.
in writing. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i can only agree with you on the importance of facilitating the reconciliation of private and professional life, particularly for pregnant women and young mothers. and let me add the urgency. that is why the announcement by the european commission of the withdrawal of the directive on the extension of maternity leave is regrettable. this protection measure was approved by the european parliament in 2010 and is now being challenged by the executive. this decision is nothing more nor less than a regression. the debate must be revived quickly by giving new impetus to the interinstitutional dialogue, in line with the recent statements by the new president of the commission, mr jean-claude juncker, and the italian presidency of the council. i wish for a renewal of dialogue. it is necessary to update the positions and to bring them closer together so that they can best meet the realities of the various member states. progress is needed in the area of social protection, of which maternity leave is certainly one, and there is no longer room for inaction! i shall pay particular attention to the development of this case.
when i got my driver's license, the instructor warned me: don't think you can actually drive. we must remain vigilant! i think that this warning applies today to lithuania, which, after a remarkable policy of reorganization, is now meeting the convergence criteria. however, a few remarks must be made about the sustainability of this convergence. i 'll tell you two things: and i think that the commission has a very good idea of what it is doing, and i think that it is very important that we have a clear picture of what we are doing. secondly, unemployment, which remains high despite strong economic growth. the eurozone is a project based on solidarity, but it also necessarily calls for a sense of responsibility. i therefore regret that there is a growing call for a more flexible interpretation of the terms of the stability pact. if we want to prevent the disintegration of the eurozone, we need good drivers and strict traffic rules that are strictly observed.
ladies and gentlemen, colleagues of the majority - a majority which we have seen at work here on the nomination of the president of this parliament and also of the president of the commission - i am taking part in this debate on youth unemployment to speak against you, to point out to you that the co2 emissions of your unity thinking are, among other things, youth unemployment. i am a flemish nationalist, i come from a country, belgium, which, like the european union, is considered far too much a socioeconomic entity, when it is not at all. it's an artificial land, with different components. a country which, like the european union, is experiencing a transfer from north to south with all the adverse consequences that this entails. i am here to speak to you in your great cathedral of the european idea of unity, because you pretend that europe is a single socioeconomic area, when that is precisely what is violating europe, because europe is diversity, diversity and adaptation of the member states. it will be one of the hallmarks of my mandate to remind you of this regularly in this cathedral of european integration. (the president agreed to answer a question in the form of a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8)).)
young people are the future and tackling the high level of youth unemployment is rightly a priority. but we must clearly define who does what. the european union can and must first of all facilitate growth and jobs by encouraging the necessary structural labour market reforms and creating a good business and investment climate. the wide variations in youth unemployment between member states and regions demonstrate that unemployment is often the result of poorly functioning national and regional labour markets and shortcomings in national education systems. it is true that the european union can take additional action through specific support measures, but this should not relieve the member states of their own responsibility. the region i represent, namely flanders, is also already making a priority of its youth employment policy, thus implementing the recommendation on the youth employment guarantee. finally, i would like to call for a specific language policy tailored to young people with a migrant background and to the specific needs of young people with disabilities. this will also provide these two groups of young people with job opportunities. (the president agreed to answer a question in the form of a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8)). )
"blue card" is the answer. i think it is a shared responsibility, including that of your country, italy, to cooperate with the european commission. but above all the member states themselves must be careful that things are not misused. it seems simple to me. it is the responsibility of your own government and you must raise the problem there.
mr president, when we talk about young people, we must know which young people we are talking about. the fact that we actually know these young people may give us more information on the most appropriate policies to pursue. for example, we can talk about young people who are qualified or young people who are dropping out. while the 2008 crisis did indeed plunge both groups, both skilled and unskilled, into the unemployment crisis, when it comes to skilled young people, the youth guarantee is an effective tool to get them back into employment. unfortunately, this tool cannot be the only one to get them back to work and we are calling for real recovery plans. because it's through the stimulus plans that we'll create jobs. the youth guarantee makes it possible to better match the qualifications of these young people with these jobs. unfortunately, when it comes to low-skilled young people, even if economic indicators return to positive values, they will not lead to "low-skilled" young people. the european social elevator is broken today. studies show that our systems need to be more voluntary and less unequal. we need, in this case, investments to fight poverty, poverty of families, poverty of children, poverty of adolescents. we therefore call for social investment criteria to be integrated into the european semester. we also advocate the creation of statistical indicators on child poverty, which inevitably leads to poverty among young adults.
in writing. lithuania already wanted to adopt the euro on 1 january 2007. this project failed in 2006 due to too high inflation in the country. since then, lithuania has continued to develop and has made significant efforts to meet the criteria for adopting the euro. on 25 february 2013 the lithuanian government decided to set the target of introducing the euro on 1 january 2015. it is to be hoped that the lithuanian government's determination to adopt the euro on 1 january 2015 will further the accession of the population. on 17 april 2014, the lithuanian parliament (seimas) adopted the law on the adoption of the euro by lithuania by 87 votes in favour, 7 against and 13 abstentions. this result indicates that lithuanian parties are clearly in favour of the euro.
madam president, we have been reading and hearing a lot of things in the last ten days: truths, half-truths, falsehoods and also a lot of lies. we just heard it again. the only thing that really matters today is to put an end to the murderous escalation in the region and to bring the parties back to negotiations without the rockets, as the minister said. and egypt offered it monday night. the total cessation of hostilities, immediately accepted by israel and mahmoud abbas, is categorically rejected by hamas. hamas, which, in rejecting the truce, promised, and i quote, "to intensify the battle". so hamas continues to rain missiles on israel, on ashdod, on tel aviv, on jerusalem, on eilat, on the airport, everywhere. this is the reality of israelis today, a reality that no government in the world would tolerate without reacting. not berlin, not madrid, not rome, not anyone! the fate of the gazans is tragic. they are hostages of a terrorist movement that, for the last ten years that it has been in power in gaza, has no other agenda than the destruction of the jewish state, it is in the charter. every victim, every man, woman, child is a tragedy, one victim too many. and who is responsible? the israeli army protecting its civilians and telling those in gaza to flee or hamas calling on the population to stand still and act as a shield? so yes, the netanyahu government must take responsibility for its part in the stagnation of the negotiations, its lack of a long-term strategy for peace, this way of just managing the conflict. but make no mistake, it is hamas that is murdering the destiny of the palestinians. and to this tragedy is added another, an ignoble reality that we never thought we would see again, ever in europe; the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a fact that we must acknowledge, lest we add to the misery of the world: for the first time in decades, europe is the scene of a pogrom. there is no other term for what happened in paris and antwerp this weekend. where will it be tomorrow? so, because these criminal arsonists are bringing in hate, it is urgent for us to impose peace.
madam president, the situation we are discussing today is of the utmost importance. this is a fundamental violation of human rights, an intolerable violation which the european union cannot in any case leave unanswered. mrs ibrahim ishag was arrested and sentenced to death for a fundamental freedom issue, that of religious affiliation. it is true that the death sentence was overturned, but mrs ibrahim still faces fabricated charges to prevent her from leaving the country. she had to take refuge in the u.s. embassy. her situation is therefore extremely precarious and we must take steps to sanction these decisions taken against mrs ibrahim. the union must urgently take steps to facilitate its liberation and to reaffirm the strength of the union's values. we cannot leave this crime unanswered because, indeed, if it was of christian confession, it must be remembered that her father, a muslim, abandoned her and that it was her mother who raised her and therefore, there was no apostasy. so there is no objective reason to blame him for the things that are being said about him today. let us do everything we can to help him through this difficult time.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. create an internal enemy and an external enemy, to then say, as president al-sisi does, "i will protect you in exchange for the loss of your human rights, the loss of press freedom, the democratic right to have your own voice". people blame serious crimes on you and then they don't come up with any evidence. the secret services decide what's true and what's not. the state media is selling falsehoods, while the independent press is being constrained. egyptian prisons are psychologically unbearable, according to witnesses. they are full of people who have resisted the government, even more than under the mubarak regime. westerners are now being shamelessly condemned for things they have not done. the dutch journalist rena netjes, who is also mentioned in our resolution, is not without reason when she mentions egypt as knettergekkistan, or as amnesty international put it a little more diplomatically: egypt's judicial system is broken and incapable of delivering justice. one step forward to take two steps back. it is a painful lesson for the european union that the 'more for more' principle of the neighbourhood policy is not very effective.
author. - madam president, the islamist group boko haram is, as we all know, a serious threat to the stability of the country, the subregion and the whole region. of course, we strongly condemn all the abuses committed by this group against the civilian population, and particularly the abduction of more than 270 schoolgirls from chibok high school. the perpetrators of these unnamed acts must of course be traced and brought to justice. if we do not want boko haram to link up with other criminal drug trafficking movements, such as aqmi, the islamic state and the mujao at the doorstep of europe, we need an effective response. and it must be said that our enchantingly sounding statements are obviously not enough. it is certainly essential to combine security with development and the promotion of human rights, to work on programmes for education, health and the fight against corruption. only national, regional, european and international cooperation can combat these groups. but i remain convinced that there will never be a genuine european international policy without military capability capable of using coercion and force when necessary.
madam president, madam commissioner, this week the islamist group boko haram launched several deadly attacks in nigeria, adding to the many deaths they have already caused since their inception. these attacks come on top of the kidnapping of more than 200 girls on april 14 in chibok in the northeast of the country. despite a significant mobilization of the international community and social networks, their fate is still uncertain and every day brings fear of the worst. if, unfortunately, we can only condemn and sadly witness all these abuses, it is more necessary than ever to affirm our support for the nigerian government in order to really fight against boko haram, in particular through the presence of our diplomats on the ground but, undoubtedly, also through targeted military aid to fight this scourge. more than ever, whatever our political sensibilities, our parliament must unite and speak with one voice so that we never accept the unacceptable.
in writing. i was shocked to learn of the malaysia airlines (mh17) plane crash which killed nearly 300 people. my thoughts are with the families and loved ones of the victims. it is urgent that the osce experts be allowed to do their work in the greatest possible freedom in order to clarify the circumstances of this tragedy as soon as possible. this human catastrophe is a reason for all parties to the conflict to conclude a ceasefire as soon as possible. i condemn in the strongest terms the escalation of violence and violations of human rights, particularly in eastern ukraine. russia must take responsibility and accept a negotiated solution to the crisis, which alone will allow a return to stability. this process shall be carried out with respect for the unity, sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine.
in writing. - yesterday i voted a resolution calling on the high representative to speed up the deployment of the civilian mission under the common security and defence policy in the security and police sectors. if this mission is to be effective, it must have the necessary resources and an ambitious mandate to be able to provide real support to the ukrainians in the continuing efforts to stabilise the situation in the country. the resolution also calls on russia to show its determination to support the peace plan (the malaysian airline disaster demonstrating more than ever the absolute urgency of doing everything possible to end the conflict). parliament also called on the council to impose new economic, financial and energy sanctions on russia and a collective arms embargo on the country. the council has decided to extend the sanctions in connection with the crisis in eastern ukraine, including by adding to the sanctions list the names of new persons and entities, including russian ones.
in writing. we have prepared a package of new measures, including the freezing of programmes in russia run by the european investment bank (eib) and the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd). talks are also underway to "add new names to the list of targeted sanctions". the worsening situation in donbass, ample evidence of russian involvement in the actions of combatants give more and more reasons to move to 'phase 3' of sanctions to oppose russian aggression. russia has not fulfilled the conditions set by the european council last month to avoid new sanctions that could have a strong impact on its economy. europe must be strong and democracy must be respected at europe's borders.
in writing. i am seriously concerned about the difficulties of finding or keeping a job. i am thinking of poverty, unemployment and the financial obstacles facing a young couple who want to own their own house. but there is one thing that is clear and no one can dispute: it is business that creates jobs and wealth to finance quality public services for citizens. the economic recovery in favour of employment must be sustained. today, to revive the economy, it is especially important to stimulate productive investment, especially in our small and medium-sized enterprises. smes are the largest employers in europe. smes account for more than 99% of enterprises and employ more than 90 million employees in europe. they also account for more than 67% of private sector employment (two out of three private sector jobs) and more than 58% of total turnover in the union. as regards youth employment, which is one of my priorities, i insist on strengthening the 'youth guarantee' which aims to offer young people a job, a return to education, training or retraining within 4 months of finishing school.
in writing. the unprecedented rate of youth unemployment in europe, at over 5.3 million, is a human, family and social tragedy. this is the risk of a breakdown in intergenerational solidarity, but also of a possible exodus of an entire generation to more dynamic regions! the youth guarantee, to support employment of young people under 25, is a response to this scourge. the 6 billion allocated to it is still a modest sum in view of the fragility of the labour market and the low employability of young people with a degree or without. this is why all available tools must be activated to stem this scourge and make reducing youth unemployment the social priority of this parliament. the resolution adopted this afternoon lists some of the ways forward: - better use of esf funds for projects related to youth employment; - making the activation of employment support measures mandatory in the country-specific recommendations; - strengthening the links between vocational education and the business world to maintain a strong industrial fabric in europe and aim for the target of 20% of gdp by 2020, as the new president of the commission has committed to.
in writing. the number and quality of jobs in europe are deteriorating. the statistics on youth employment in europe are staggering. in order to realise the youth employment initiative, many member states are actively implementing measures financed by the yei (eur 6 billion) and the european social fund (over eur 10 billion each year). iey funding has a key role to play in supporting young people directly by providing them with a first work experience, a placement, an apprenticeship or training. the funds from the yei and the european social fund for the period 2014-2020 are to be used in regions where youth unemployment was above 25% in 2012 for actions for young people under 25 years of age and mainly for young people who are not in employment, education or training. twenty member states have such regions and can benefit from these funds. europe must promote the direct creation of jobs, traineeships or continuing training. we must do everything possible to ensure that the european recovery tools and job creation are in place.
in writing. the situation in iraq today is extremely serious. the united nations high commissioner for refugees reports that one million iraqi citizens have been displaced due to the recent clashes between the extremist terrorist group islamic state in iraq and the levant (isil), the regular army and other groups. the disintegration of the iraqi state is not only a threat to the unity of the country, but also directly affects europe and the world beyond. i condemn in the strongest terms the acts of terrorist groups and the financial support for the strengthening of negative forces such as isil, which today threatens to partition the country, with the possible creation of a jihadistan in western syria and eastern iraq. it is urgent to re-create the conditions for a political dialogue involving all parties, all the vital forces of the nation and bringing together all communities in order to face this new threat together. only an inclusive political solution, endorsed by all components of the iraqi population, will lead to an end to the crisis.
in writing. - i am very concerned about the humanitarian crisis and the mass displacement of civilians in iraq. the european parliament yesterday condemned the attacks by the islamic state in iraq against iraqi citizens and the iraqi state and those directed against civilian targets. i am glad of this: in the resolution i supported, parliament called on all political leaders, in particular prime minister nouri al-maliki, to ensure that a unity government is formed as a matter of urgency. while supporting the authorities in the fight against terrorism and armed/terrorist groups, we also called for security interventions to be accompanied by a lasting political solution that involves all components of iraqi society and responds to their legitimate discontent. because all the necessary measures must be taken to ensure the safety and protection of all iraqi citizens! we also called on regional actors to contribute to efforts to promote security and stability in iraq and asked the international community to facilitate a regional dialogue on middle east issues. the eu must develop a comprehensive approach to the region.
in writing. now iraq has a shiite regime linked to and supported by iran, which is now saudi arabia's main competitor for regional hegemony. this saudi arabia/iran confrontation has affected the saudi relationship with shiite iraq. in my opinion, the saudis have no interest in iraq regaining its power and neither do the iranians. the idea that iraq should not rise from the ashes is shared by both countries. in fact, there is a proxy war being waged by the two states in iraq and syria. by favouring the radical sunni fringe, the saudis will eventually pay the price for this policy. the saudis who are enlisted in the groups could come back to the country and that's the real problem. there would be internal destabilization if these fighters returned to saudi arabia, and then the implosion of iraq. i think saudi arabia has had a short-sighted policy in assuming that the implosion of iraq and syria would have no consequences on its own territory and society. that's not true. the delicate balance that the saudis have managed to maintain internally is actually unstable, for all these reasons.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution which calls for an immediate de-escalation of the conflict in the middle east by a ceasefire agreement between the two sides and an immediate cessation of all acts of violence which threaten the lives of the civilian population. in this resolution, parliament called for an immediate end to the firing of rockets at israel from gaza and for an end to all israeli military action against gaza. parliament also called on the eu high representative to step up diplomatic pressure to support efforts to negotiate a permanent ceasefire and called on the international community to find an appropriate response and a solution to the current crisis without delay. because there is no justification for attacks deliberately targeting innocent civilians. i also voted for an amendment (which was not finally incorporated into the text) calling on the eu to take up its responsibilities and launch a clear and comprehensive peace initiative for the region and to use all the means at its disposal to ensure effective respect for international humanitarian law and human rights.
in writing. as a member of the european parliament who is very committed to human rights and respect for the values that we have here, i am very concerned about the current situation. the israeli government is being pressured by its extremist wing to reject any concessions. they dream of ending hamas, a highly unlikely goal. these ministers are preaching a ground military intervention to disarm hamas. such an offensive would result in dozens of israeli casualties, and could quickly lose him the support of israeli public opinion. there is no military solution in gaza, however: an israeli "victory" against hamas would provide a platform for jihadist groups lurking across the egyptian border, and excited by the advent of their "caliph" in iraq. israel would repeat with even more dramatic consequences the mistake it made ten years ago when it weakened the palestinian authority in favour of hamas. a reconquest of gaza, as demanded by the hard right, is not possible. this is pure demagogy. we'll reach a new ceasefire sooner or later. but it's not an end in itself, if it's just waiting for the next confrontation.
in writing. it is essential to make the protection of human life a top priority. in kampala, the states parties to the icc reached a compromise on the crime of aggression. however, the difficulties in implementing it are regrettable. the court of justice of the european union (the 'court') is the supreme court of the european union, and its jurisdiction extends to all the courts of the member states of the european union. at present, only 12 states parties, including belgium, have ratified the amendments relating to the crime of aggression; which makes me say that the kampala declaration is a reflection of the challenges that the icc has to face, namely: its impact on victims of crime, the necessary cooperation of states in the investigation and arrest of the accused, and complementarity by intervening only as a last resort. it is therefore urgent that the eu takes the lead in bringing the kampala amendments on the crime of aggression into force.
in writing. as defined by the assembly of states parties meeting in kampala, the crime of aggression is the planning, preparation, instigation or commission of an act by a state of using armed force against the sovereignty, territorial integrity or political independence of another state. acts of aggression shall include, inter alia, invasion, military occupation or annexation by the use of force and the blockade of ports or coasts, if by their nature, gravity and extent such acts are considered to be manifest violations of the charter of the united nations. i fully support this resolution which aims to recall that the crime of aggression is still commonplace throughout the world and to condemn the impunity enjoyed by too many criminals who commit these crimes. the entry into force of the international criminal court (icc) in 2002 ushered in a new era of global accountability and ushered in the end of impunity. it also considers that the kampala conference, like this resolution, is an opportunity to underline our collective determination that crimes against humanity should no longer go unpunished.
mr president, every day we hear our fellow citizens criticizing europe for not being democratic enough, for not applying to itself the values it professes abroad. i think the case raised by the alde group, which we support, is particularly emblematic. we sometimes feel that we have somehow imported vladimir putin's son or nephew into the very heart of the european union. i think this is a subject which deserves to be discussed, not only in the libe committee, but also in the plenary.
madam president, commissioner, as has been said before, the commission has reacted quickly and within the budgetary limits which we have in the agricultural budget. this was done quickly and efficiently, but we know that it is not enough. the first fundamental question that comes to mind is that this is a political crisis derived from a difficult situation, but that its consequences are being felt today, particularly and above all by fruit and vegetable producers, and also by milk producers. is it only the agricultural budget that needs to be called upon and cannot another one be called upon to respond effectively? there is an urgency because the harvest of fruits, especially apples and pears, is now and in a few days. on the other hand, it is not possible to penalise all producers in different countries because in some countries the right holders may not have been properly accounted for. so the recent suspension of aid of 125 million is probably not the appropriate signal. there are two main points as far as i am concerned. as a former rapporteur on aid to the poorest, i would like to point out that many european citizens live below the poverty line and that it is quite clear that we can - mrs tiziana beghin said it before me - buy up production and make it available to food banks, at least for efficient distribution. it's the most important thing. secondly, i became a pear and apple seller in a local market and measured the citizens' willingness to consume differently and to help the producers. therefore, could we not take the opportunity - and i know this will be discussed in this parliament - to start and reset a new programme, a school feeding programme, of fundamental food rehabilitation. it is legitimate to go and conquer other external markets, but we must also strengthen domestic demand.
i am not saying that the european union should be a party to the conflict, but i am saying that it should be a party to the peace process. it seems to me important to be able to recall certain principles in this trade with israel, in particular the principle of the illegality of the occupation of the territories in the west bank. to do this, we have, indeed, with the instruments of trade, the possibility of doing two things. the first is, of course, to encourage those member states which have already taken measures in respect of these products from the occupied territories, that is to say, to be able to guarantee the labelling of these products. it is true that this is now voluntarily done in the united kingdom and also in belgium. but we want to see binding measures at european level to be activated for the labelling of products from the occupied territories, which are illegal products. this would enable european consumers to make the right choices in terms of consumption, change their habits and exert economic pressure on the unfair situation as it exists today. as regards the other countries - you mentioned morocco and tunisia - i think it is also important to recall a number of principles. the first is that these are countries in democratic transition - i'm talking about tunisia here - and it's important to involve civil society in these free trade agreements. it is also important to include social and environmental clauses which are also binding in trade agreements. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". i ask that there can be traceability of products, this would allow choices to be made in relation to our consumption. if there is no traceability, it is impossible to know where these products come from today and i am not advocating a boycott of all products, both israeli and palestinian, but i am advocating that we should be able to know whether these products are produced illegally, that is, in the occupied territories.
mr president, commissioner, the euro-mediterranean partnership between the union and the countries of the southern mediterranean was initiated in 1995 by the barcelona process. this is a political, economic and social partnership based on the principles of reciprocity, solidarity and co-development, which are very dear to us. respect for democratic principles and fundamental rights is an essential element of association agreements. this type of agreement underlines the importance of economic, commercial and financial cooperation, but also of social, cultural and educational cooperation. i would like to speak here as a member of the committee on women's rights and gender equality of this parliament to remind you that this trade agreement must be an opportunity to improve respect for women's rights in general and, more specifically, women's access to education and employment, the role of culture, the media as key instruments for changing views on gender equality. it should also facilitate the creation and management of enterprises by women, improve women's access to financing mechanisms and tools and develop vocational training. i would also like to commend the courage of these women who have been at the forefront of the movements of civil society for democracy and human rights in the arab countries. unfortunately, the fallout from all these revolutions raises fears of further marginalization of these women, and of women in general. they have also resulted in an increase in violence against them. as you have seen, progress is still needed and we have, i think - and i hope you agree - a crucial role to play. it is our duty as partners in these agreements. (the president agreed to answer a question with a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr ferrand, i don't know if you heard me correctly. i spoke about the key role of women in a struggle for more democracy, more rights for them, but also for democracy. unfortunately, as i have said very clearly and in so many words, we can be disappointed with the consequences of these movements. women should not be marginalized. today, they seem to be more marginalised than before in some countries, and their role seems to be more marginal as well. i believe that we must take this into account at european level if we are to give women an important role in the economy of their country.
mr president, it is always the same here in the parliament. we ask for baroness ashton, and once again she is not present. i know that she is somewhere else. i think that she sees world affairs as only being one thing – iran. i do not think that she is aware of any other problem in the world. it is a shame that every time, for nearly five years now, when we ask for baroness ashton, she is never there – even for important matters, such as ukraine, relations with russia, and the uncertainty surrounding the association agreement, where we have no explanation. in the next five years, we must not accept an attitude from the new high representative like the one we have seen from baroness ashton. i want this made clear at the beginning of this debate. (applause)
we are today providing an impetus to a free and economically stronger ukraine. if we are to provide a buffer against the kremlin's destructive destabilisation policy, this step is necessary for our security as well as for that of ukraine. but of course, change can never be imposed from the outside. change always comes from within. the systematic underlying weaknesses of ukraine's democratic institutions are a constant driving force for those who want to destabilise the country. without real reforms in the judiciary, without thorough anti-corruption measures, without the unmasking of the system of oligarchs, which is the ukrainian political class, in short, without changing the system itself that has characterized ukraine for years, this agreement will not withstand future foreign attacks. and that change, that was what the euromaidan movement was all about. i hope my colleagues in the council will also understand this. we are on your side, but please use this moment to give the ukrainians confidence in politics. in the meantime, commissioner, i would like to make a call for immediate and concrete help. dozens of seriously wounded soldiers are in urgent need of professional medical attention in our hospitals. hundreds of thousands of refugees need help. the reconstruction of the east, the liberated areas, must begin urgently. i hope that the european union can help us quickly. long live the ukraine.
in the case of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the council has not yet adopted the decision on the accession of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to the european union. negotiations on the association agreement were launched in 2007 as part of the enhanced cooperation between the eu and ukraine. this partnership must not be abandoned, even after the illegal occupation of the territory by russia. this agreement is concluded between the eu member states and ukraine with the objective of mutual reduction of import duties. however, in trilateral talks, ukraine, the eu and russia agreed to put the economic part of the agreement into effect only at the end of 2015. this was done to counter russia's concern that eu goods would enter the russian market via ukraine. the ratification of the association agreement will, above all, help to build up ukraine's democracy. the agreement calls for the implementation of reforms and respect for the rule of law. it provides a motivation to uphold and develop the principles of the rule of law to meet european standards, even in times of external threats. it was precisely for these goals of the rule of law, the fight against corruption and the expansion of democracy that ukrainian citizens began to protest on the maidan at the end of 2013, after then-ukrainian president yanukovych announced that he would not sign the association agreement with the european union.
in writing. - in full consistency with the general association agreement between the european union and ukraine, the aim is to provide a legal framework for third-country workers legally employed in the territory of the other party. this will contribute to the necessary rapprochement between the union and ukraine and thus to the political and socio-economic stabilisation of the latter.
in writing. i am pleased that an association agreement has finally been signed between ukraine and the european union. today we can only welcome this step forward, but it is only the first step in a long process of political stability in ukraine. we will give our full support to the reforms undertaken by the ukrainian government to ensure respect for european values. the ukrainian people have paid a heavy price. the political handover must take place. civil society must be included in this process if it is to be truly democratic. the point is to keep in touch with ukraine and its people so that such a crisis does not happen again. dialogue with russia also remains crucial. the easing of tensions with moscow in a trilogue involving all parties concerned is necessary if we are to move further in the process of political reconstruction.
in writing. - i voted for the association agreement with ukraine. i want to support and help ukraine in its struggle for genuine democracy, against war and violence and for the preservation of its sovereignty. i support the sanctions because the russian leadership is behaving in an insincere manner. the peace talks must continue. we are being dragged into a geopolitical game heavily mediated by the simultaneous and hasty voting in the ep and the ukrainian parliament. although this agreement is being voted on today, it may not enter into force until early 2016. why the rush to approve them now? is there not a danger of a new 'frozen conflict' brewing on the eu's borders? and what about the contents of the 1200 pages put to the vote? how will these affect our models of society? what's the real agenda? is this agreement putting ukraine on the right track or is it being used for a larger geopolitical conflict? it is irresponsible to vote against now, given the desire of ukraine and our desire to support ukraine. in the months ahead, we will be watching closely to see how this conflict develops and whether we are on the path to peace.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and ukraine, of the other part, to the exclusion of the provisions on the treatment of third-country nationals legally employed in the territory of the other party. we therefore ask that these provisions be brought into force immediately.
in writing. - it is essential at the present time, in view of the events we all know, to develop increased political and economic cooperation with ukraine. the association agreement, which will bring the european union and ukraine closer together, is designed to do just that and to stabilise the democratic transition, in particular by promoting the country's socioeconomic development and strengthening its institutions. the european union is thus making an important contribution to the necessary regional geopolitical stability.
in writing. the current situation in eastern ukraine is crucial for the future of the european union. if the eu is to have a say on the world stage, it must send a strong message that it cannot tolerate russian aggression going unpunished. we cannot remain silent in the face of violations of international law. the signing of the association agreement is a positive signal to the ukrainian authorities and people. positive steps remain to be taken to promote stability and peace in the region. but it is time for the eu to speak with one voice! the lack of cohesion among european decision-makers on the russian aggression weakens the union's resolve. i regret that the russian reluctance has had an influence on the immediate implementation of the treaty, particularly as regards trade. i regret that, given the importance of the situation, we have not been able to agree on a more rapid implementation of the agreement.
in writing. i voted for the association agreement with ukraine. i want to support and help ukraine in its struggle for genuine democracy, against war and violence and for the preservation of its sovereignty. i support the sanctions because the russian leadership is behaving in an insincere manner. the peace talks must be resumed. we are being dragged into a geopolitical game heavily mediated by the simultaneous and hasty vote in the ep and the ukrainian parliament. although this convention is being voted on today, it may not enter into force until early 2016. why the rush to approve this now? is there not a danger of a new 'frozen conflict' brewing on the eu's borders? and what about the contents of the 1200 pages that are on the ballot? how will these affect our models of society? what's the real agenda? we will put ukraine on the right track with this treaty or it will be used for a larger geopolitical conflict. it is irresponsible to vote against now, given the desire of ukraine and our desire to support ukraine. over the coming months, we will hold our hearts tight as this conflict unfolds and whether we are walking the path of peace.
in writing. i, of course, voted in favour of the eu/euratom/ukraine association agreement, as did my whole political group. the text also covers the treatment of third-country nationals legally employed in the territory of the other party. we welcome the positive outcome of this vote and would like to see the implementing text as soon as possible.
on behalf of the s&d group, it may be a matter of fact, but we know that last august was the warmest month in a long time. a fact diverse on the scientific work that we know that climate change is not something that is going to happen, but that we are in the middle of. what we must do, therefore, is act quickly and ensure that we can identify a phenomenon in which we are involved and better assess its consequences. the commission has already said that the climate conference in lima is an important first step. because what we need are clear, ambitious, enforceable and verifiable goals for the whole world. to do that, we need to take responsibility for ourselves. i want to join in the compliments. the last five years have been particularly difficult in the climate field and have seen particularly poor progress, including in the european union. i hope, i hope, commissioner, that you will succeed in ensuring that at the last council of this and your term of office, the council does take responsibility for the 2030 climate package and ensures that we as europe do incorporate these climate objectives into our own legislation: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the requirements of the treaty. i wish you every success in that and my group will support you fully.
unfortunately, democracy requires, dear friends, that we also have to listen to nonsense from time to time. that is our destiny and we accept it, of course. commissioner, first of all, warm congratulations on your sincere and effective efforts in all that you have done, on your commitment and on the results you have achieved. thank you very much and good luck and all the best in your future career. it's clear that the climate summit in new york next week offers us an excellent new opportunity to build a global coalition to tackle that warming. the political leaders of india and china are planning to send their cat to new york. but that does not absolve us europeans of the moral obligation to be there at the highest level. we are counting on the eu, the european commission and the council to be present at the highest level and to underline our commitment there in new york, to work hard to achieve a binding agreement in lima and, of course, in paris next year. the european commission has already put forward the eu's 2030 proposals. it is now up to our heads of state or government to reach an ambitious agreement on this on 23 october next and to make it clear that europe is determined to continue to play its leading role. it is also important that we make it clear next week that we support the world bank's call for a price on co2. we have of course put a price on co2 in europe and we want to strengthen our ets system, which is under pressure during the economic crisis. the key is that we go for a robust and predictable carbon price that gives our companies and governments effective incentives to actually turn those climate efforts into a real opportunity.
mr president, commissioner, my colleagues in the s&d group have already raised a number of reservations about ceta and, in particular, about isds. i shall not therefore return to the question of isds. my concern will be rather with the mechanism of regulatory cooperation as provided for today in the ceta agreement. it is a mechanism which allows multinationals - it is true - both european and canadian, to define a number of rules that suit them, and that make this agreement alive. in other words, your initial commitment not to reduce european standards through this mechanism cannot be respected because companies could decide among themselves that rules are contrary to this freedom of trade. in this connection, mr de gucht, you have stated at times that european standards are your ultimate security. these were the standards that were not to be negotiated. well, we have mechanisms in this agreement that undermine that position, that undermine your commitment and so i would like to have a clear position on that. is it really possible to preserve european standards in health, social and environmental matters?
in writing. i am here to speak for the 150,000 europeans you are about to deny. the arbitration clause has attracted the attention of over 150 000 europeans in a recent european public consultation. this record participation rate proves once again that all actors in society are aware of the toxicity of the ttip agreement and more particularly of the presence of a private arbitration court which would allow multinationals to block public decisions of general interest under the sole pretext of lowering their profits. the commission, rather than waiting for the analysis of the citizens' consultation on this arbitration court, is trying to impose it on us through another trade agreement than the one with the united states, via the agreement with canada. the commission will then be able to say why not accept this clause in ttip, you have just voted for it in the canada text. but we are not fooled, and if you, commissioner, take the trouble to ask the opinion of the citizens and experts, the least you can do is take that opinion into account. it is your credibility in the eyes of the european citizens and also in the eyes of this parliament.
for the greens/efa group mr president, the first thing that strikes me, ladies and gentlemen of the council and the commission, is a kind of lack of a sense of urgency. we have 27 or 28 million unemployed, we have a quarter of our population living at or below the poverty line or social exclusion and it is not yet clear whether this summit will take place. we're not sure yet what agenda... i sometimes wonder if we live in the same world. so there is urgency and what i hear from you, mr katainen, is essentially a discourse that i have heard for two, three, four years, namely structural reforms, structural reforms, structural reforms... and by that, you mean, basically, cutting government spending and cutting labor costs. i will not teach you anything by telling you that these structural reforms have the direct impact of hitting the most vulnerable in the population rather than the most affluent. we greens are in favour of fundamental structural reforms, but not the same as yours! we are not going to be able to do that because we share your desire to invest, but we must invest to make europe the most energy-efficient continent, the most resource-efficient continent, and this is a complete transformation of our economy. so you're going to ask me how do we mobilize investment? there are ways. there are simple ways, but you have to give yourself the will to use them. the first way is through rules, binding objectives. you will have to debate binding climate targets, energy efficiency targets, resource efficiency targets with the commission and the council. it's by setting yourself binding goals that things move. it is not just the greens who say this, it is the companies that work in this sector who say it. no binding goals, no investments. it's all about the money. it's as simple as that. secondly, if there is any structural reform to be done, it is to re-engineer our tax systems. you will tell me that this is for the member states. no, we have to do it together. today, our tax systems are both socially unfair, economically counterproductive and environmentally destructive. we must make a flat taxation review and i know that there is a rule of unanimity, but we cannot continue in this way. if you want a tax system that is more conducive to investment, you have to change it radically. the last thing i want to say to you is that as long as the casino economy remains open for business, don't expect the cash that all the central banks of the world put into the financial system to end up in the economy. the bank of england has been flooding the uk with liquidity for years, the european central bank with a little less enthusiasm. where does this money end up today? they finance bubbles on the price of assets, whether real estate assets or movable assets. this cash is not invested in the economy. because obviously while it's easy to make a profit without working, by speculating, you, as so-called financial investors, are not going to invest in the real economy because it's difficult, because it involves taking risks, risks that will not be borne by the taxpayer. these are the structural reforms we want. we are in favour of structural reforms but not the ones you propose. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". dear sir, i am not your student and, if you are perhaps in academia, i have spent twenty-two years in business, that is my only professional title of glory apart from having served a little in this parliament. it will not escape you, and mr katainen said it, that an economy based on investment is an economy that creates more prosperity than an economy based on mere consumption. simply because when you invest, when you try to position yourself at the forefront of innovation, and here particularly in the energy field, well you put yourself in a position to create value but also competitively you are ahead of other areas of the planet. this means that when we inevitably have to reduce our energy or resource consumption, i would prefer europe to sell its solutions abroad rather than europe having to buy the solutions and the technology that goes with it from china, brazil or the united states. it is up to you, but if you prefer to boost the economy through speculation and consumption, i am very much afraid that europe will sink deeper into the abyss. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr schaffhauser, the question you are asking is a valid one. to some extent, what we are seeing is already a more modest form of quantitative easing in continental europe than what we see in the uk. that cash must be made available, yes, but do not forget that these are loans that will have to be repaid. of course, investments must be profitable. what i observe is that in reality europe does not suffer from a lack of available capital. the problem is a problem of allocation of this capital. this capital is not being invested where it should be. in other words, he goes more into speculation, especially real estate - you see it in paris, london, brussels and elsewhere - and in the stock markets. we therefore believe that it is better to redirect available liquidity to where it can be invested productively rather than always adding additional liquidity. so, obviously, how much? it's something to look at. but let us ask ourselves the question of allocation of resources before we always want to create additional resources. europe is a rich continent today, let us not forget, but its capital is simply not allocated in the best possible way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the council and commission, when we see that one year after emerging from recession, the euro zone is showing growth at a standstill, 0 per cent in the second quarter, with a risk of falling into deflation, we understand that the economic recovery is seriously in danger. i believe that sustainable growth and a recovery in economic activity require, among other things, massive and controlled public investment. as you know, mr juncker promised us in july an investment plan of almost 300 billion euros and mr draghi confirms that we must make better use of budgetary policy. well, if you are still not sure what to put on the agenda of the next euro summit, i think that these are the essential questions that the summit really needs to answer, namely what will happen, in general terms, to public investment in the member states so that it too can continue to support growth. indeed, when we look a little more closely at all the standards that have been drawn up by eurostat, and in particular the esa standards, we see that they do not correspond at all to the reality on the ground and that they forget to account for bonuses, especially from local entities, which does not allow us to continue to support growth. i think this is clearly a mistake.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, it is essential to create favourable conditions for the employment of young people, taking into account the specificities of the labour markets of the various member states. the future of europe is in their hands! to avoid having a generation sacrificed, the structural causes of youth unemployment must be tackled. let us tackle the problem at its root: by investing in learning, by strengthening training, particularly technical, vocational and technological studies, so that they correspond better to the realities experienced by young people and by companies. in a coordinated and partnership approach between training and employment, let us use the resources dedicated to creating jobs for young people in promising sectors, to develop internships and mentoring and to promote mobility. to do this, europe must give itself the means to achieve its ambitions by supplementing the €6 billion budget for the most severely affected regions. the policies have been voted, now it is a matter of applying them and monitoring their implementation! it goes without saying that these measures will be all the more relevant if they are linked to the 300 billion investment plan proposed by the commission.
in writing. i welcome the reports on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the european globalisation adjustment fund helps workers who have been the victims of the closure of a large company or the relocation of a large production site outside the eu to reintegrate into the labour market through targeted measures. the annual allocation of the fund is set at a maximum annual amount of eur 150 million for the financial period 2014 to 2020. the globalisation adjustment fund complements the esf and is an important tool for reintegration into the european labour market, which is undergoing rapid change as a result of globalisation. the measures financed include, inter alia, vocational guidance, vocational training and traineeships, assistance in starting up independent activities, renting of the production site and payment of the rent for the duration of the project, travel allowance, application grant, flat-rate residence allowance and traineeship allowance, and support after starting a new activity. these measures are designed to promote the workers in the most targeted way possible. the fund is deliberately targeted at individual investors and is not intended to restructure companies or sectors.
in writing. - this technical assistance from the european commission should provide a better understanding of the measures proposed and implemented under the egf, which will facilitate the sharing of information and the improvement of the effectiveness of the measures. in addition, this assistance will facilitate the application procedure and analyse the extension of the scope of the egf.
in writing. the modern world offers opportunities and challenges. european companies are not immune to the harmful effects of unchecked globalisation. the european union has set itself the objective of combining solidarity and economic growth. economic growth makes sense if it serves all european citizens. the union has understood this and is seen by some as an example of successful regional globalisation. as elected representatives of the people, we have an obligation to help the most disadvantaged. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is an essential tool to achieve this. the next step is to make it more effective. to this end, the agreement provides for the allocation of 0.5% of the maximum egf budget to the improvement of technological assistance. by allocating this amount of money, the fund would be more effective and more visible to the citizens who need it most.
in writing. - i welcome today's vote and will always support these reports on the european globalisation adjustment fund. because in a crisis situation, it is necessary to intervene for the workers affected but also because it is important to rethink the fund so that it is more proactive, faster and can concern companies with less than 500 people. the september plenary session will have seen the fund apply to new cases in spain, romania and the netherlands.
in writing. - i voted for the bill. i agree that the measures proposed by the commission should be financed as technical assistance, which should simplify the application procedure and ensure better access to the relevant data. the proposed measures on knowledge and information sharing through the egf website and expert groups and networks at local, regional and national level, which, together with a better overview of the functioning of the egf, could provide a perspective for the future, should be highlighted. i also advocate facilitating access at regional level for a better europe, to allow for local solutions at regional or local level should a situation falling within the scope of the egf arise.
in writing. - greece has been hit hard by the recession since 2008, which has resulted in a significant decline in gdp and household consumption, as well as an increase in poverty. nutriart is one of the companies affected by this recession, which was exacerbated by the austerity measures imposed by the union. the egf's intervention to support personalised training and job search assistance for more than 500 unemployed people and the support of 508 untrained young people in a country already hard hit by austerity can therefore only be supported.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), established in 2006, aims to help reintegrate workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in world trade. in 2009, its scope was extended to include victims of the financial crisis. the request, submitted by greece, concerns redundancies in the food industry. the aim is therefore to help 508 employees dismissed by nutriart s.a. and its suppliers and downstream producers: ar.zigas & sia, as well as 24 selfemployed workers who have ceased their activity. the aid will amount to approximately eur 6 096 000 and will allow the co-financing of active labour market measures such as vocational guidance, training, assistance for business creation, etc. i also welcome the fact that for the first time the selfemployed are co-financed by the european globalisation adjustment fund. this assistance is essential for greece, whose economy is experiencing a severe recession for the sixth consecutive year (2008-2013). this request has my support and that of the european parliament.
in writing. - i voted for the motion. it was the sixth to be examined under the 2014 budget and aims to mobilise a total amount of eur 6 096 000 from the egf for greece. it concerns 508 workers made redundant by nutriart s.a. (hereinafter the 'parent company') and 25 suppliers and downstream producers: ar.zigas & sia, as well as 24 selfemployed workers who ceased their activity because their activity depended on the parent company. the greek authorities will provide personalised services co-financed by the egf to a maximum of 505 unemployed, out-of-school and untrained young people under the age of 30 at the date of submission of the application, given that all the redundancies referred to in point 8 occurred in the nuts 2 regions of central macedonia (el12) and attica (el30), eligible under the youth employment initiative. the total number of beneficiaries concerned, including unemployed, out-of-school and untrained young people, is therefore estimated at 1 013. the application was considered to be eligible for a financial contribution from the fund.
in writing. - the decline in exports of finished and semi-finished steel products, the increase in imports of these same products and the purely financial logic of certain private groups have in recent years caused a number of company closures throughout the union. the dismissal of the workers at mechel therefore justifies the intervention of the egf to promote vocational training and guidance, all the more so in a region characterised by a low level of income and a very limited diversification of economic activities.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), set up in 2006, aims to help reintegrate workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in world trade. in 2009, its scope was extended to include victims of the financial crisis. the request, submitted by romania, concerns redundancies in the steel industry. the sector has been severely disrupted by the eu's sharp decline in the steel market and the growing role of countries such as china. the aid was therefore intended to help 825 employees made redundant by mechel câmpia turzii and one of its downstream producers: sc mechel reparatii targoviste srl. the aid will amount to approximately eur 3 571 150 and will allow the co-financing of active labour market measures such as vocational guidance and counselling, vocational training and traineeships, and assistance in starting up an independent activity. this request has my support and that of the european parliament.
in writing. - i voted for this bill. the adoption of the new egf regulation, which incorporates the agreement between the european parliament and the council to reintroduce the crisis mobilisation criterion, to increase the union's financial contribution to 60% of the total estimated cost of the proposed measures, to increase the efficiency of the processing of applications for egf assistance within the commission and by the european parliament and the council by shortening the time limits for evaluation and approval, to extend eligible actions and potential beneficiaries to the self-employed and young people and to finance incentives for beneficiaries to set up their own businesses, is to be welcomed.
in writing. - the horeca sector has been severely affected by the spanish economic crisis and the drastic fall in domestic purchasing power due to the austerity measures initiated to meet european requirements. the egf will help 280 of the 904 workers made redundant in 661 enterprises in the sector in aragon. this necessary solidarity will make it possible to develop mechanisms for training, guidance and job search.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), established in 2006, aims to help reintegrate workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in world trade. in 2009, its scope was extended to include victims of the financial crisis. the request, submitted by spain, concerns redundancies in the catering sector; the commission has also taken note of the fact that the number of redundancies linked to the global economic and financial crisis has been increasing, given that the fall in the average wage and the fall in household consumption in spain have led to an overall contraction in demand in this sector. the aim is to help 904 redundant workers in 661 enterprises in the aragon region. the aid will amount to approximately eur 960 000 and will help to co-finance active labour market measures focusing on guidance, counselling, job search, training, vocational reintegration, etc. this aid is indispensable for spain. the fact that the catering sector is suffering from the consequences of the financial and economic crisis, with the resulting redundancies, has a really negative impact on the regional economy. this request has my support and that of the european parliament.
in writing. - eighth examined in the context of the 2014 budget, this application was for the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 960 000 from the egf for spain. the scheme concerned 280 beneficiaries out of 904 workers made redundant in 661 undertakings. the spanish authorities have indicated that, according to the annual report of the federación española de hostelería y restauración on the activities of accommodation and catering for 2012 (the '2012 annual report'), the sectoral index of commercial activity fell by 8,26% over the period 2010-2012. furthermore, the spanish authorities argue that, due to the decrease in outdoor catering expenditure, the number of enterprises operating in the catering sector fell by 3,5% at national level in 2011 compared to 2009, while the decrease was 11% in aragon. the decline in business activity in the catering sector and the closure of many businesses in this sector have led to a large number of redundancies. so we decided to grant this request.
in writing. - the intervention of the egf is justified here because the redundancies of more than 500 workers in the construction sector are the result, on the one hand, of the global financial and economic crisis which leads to a more restrictive credit policy on the part of the banks, and, on the other hand, of austerity measures which have strongly affected the purchasing power of citizens.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to help reintegrate workers who have lost their jobs as a result of global trade developments and victims of the financial crisis. the present application, submitted by the netherlands, concerns redundancies in the building construction sector. the sale and purchase of real estate is now made difficult not only by the policy of banks to apply stricter rules on mortgage lending and credit but also by the austerity measures taken by governments to reduce public debt and the budget deficit. in addition, there is a sharp fall in prices and values in the housing market. the aim is therefore to help 562 redundant employees in 89 enterprises in the regions of gelderland and overijssel. the aid will amount to eur 1 625 781 and will help to co-finance active labour market measures focusing on job search assistance, training, vocational reorientation, etc. this request has my support and that of the european parliament.
in writing. - on 10 july 2014, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf for the netherlands to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in 89 enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 41 ('building construction') (4) located in the contiguous nuts 2 regions of gelderland and overijssel as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. the european parliament has decided to grant these aid funds. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. - the figures show that the carpentry and woodworking construction sector of castile and leon has suffered particularly from the economic crisis and the contraction of the eu27 export market shares. the 587 jobs lost are in a region where the unemployment rate has risen from 8.2% in 2008 to 22.7% in 2013! assistance for the vocational reorientation of the workers concerned is therefore essential.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to help workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the global trade crisis and the victims of the financial crisis. the request, submitted by spain, concerns redundancies in the wood sector. whereas the share of exports of woodwork and construction timber products to the eu-27 fell by 10,33% in the period 2008-2011; it is important to note that during the same period the decline in this sector was even more marked in spain, where the number of enterprises fell by 28.8%. the aim is therefore to help 587 employees made redundant in three enterprises in the region of castile and león. the aid will amount to eur 700 000 and will help to co-finance active labour market measures focusing on job search, training and mobility. this support is all the more necessary as these redundancies have hit the local labour market hard, with the unemployment rate rising from 8.2% in the first quarter of 2008 to 22.70% in the first quarter of 2013. this request has my support and that of the european parliament.
in writing. i am pleased that the european parliament has decided to provide financial support to spain through the european adjustment fund. it would be inconceivable if the european union did not have an instrument to help the poorest when they are victims of globalisation. the crisis hit spain hard and many spanish workers suffered unfair dismissals caused by a decline in consumption and major changes in the structure of international trade. it was therefore essential that the globalisation adjustment fund should help these workers. since its accession to the union, spain has truly become part of the european project. the difficulties of the crisis must not be forgotten, but we must move forward to offer the spanish people the future they deserve. it is in any case positive to see that the union does not forget this.
in writing. - on 22 july 2014, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf for spain to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in three enterprises in the nuts 2 region of castilla y león, due to major changes in the structure of international trade resulting from globalisation. ninth examined in the context of the 2014 budget, this request seeks the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 700 000 from the egf for spain. it concerns 587 redundancies in three enterprises. so we decided to grant this request.
mr president, i am shocked, not by the reference to cuba, but by the issue of migration. some people have used the ebola virus to talk about migration. since march, médecins sans frontières has been warning us of the danger of the virus, but also of the epidemic. we are now in september, that is, six months later, and the virus is advancing. the contagion is exponential and the number of people infected doubles every two weeks. so it's really urgent that we can act. we can indeed regret the fact that we were not quick enough. now, more than ever, we need to ask ourselves what we can do to stop this. i would almost say that it is simple and that médecins sans frontières has told us concretely what we have to do. we need to have a coordinated approach. we need to bring some equipment. we need isolation cells, field hospitals, labs, air bridges. well, all of that is available to the member states. i would like to see the commission and the council of ministers to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of humanitarian aid, both from a civil point of view and - and i am opposed to what has just been said - from a military point of view, because when we talk about armies, i would like to see humanitarian armies coming to provide support to the people in distress. so let's not get too big on this, any means will be an interesting means to fight this virus, to fight this epidemic. we therefore ask the council and the commission to make these resources available to the people as quickly as possible.
mr president, my colleagues have already made a broad statement on the seriousness of the situation. so i will not go back on these figures. they are well known and, according to experts, largely underestimated. it is this emergency and the slowness of our response that concerns me. a widely shared observation, we've heard. president obama, you, commissioner georgieva, the who, we are all making the same speech here. the strategies that have been mentioned, the road map, prevention, research too - we have heard - all this will take time and we know it. meanwhile, our countries and belgium, for example, with b-fast have these civilian and military rapid response capabilities that are designed for this type of medical and humanitarian crisis. structures, including msf, and all the experts on the ground are crying out for coordination at european level. mr president, i have heard you speak at length about this coordination. we hear it and we know it. but they, there, on the spot and mrs rivasi said it with her children in the front line do not hear it, do not see it. they want more, they want better, they want it now and they want it fast. in fact, i think we have no choice if we still hope to prevent this virus from spreading to africa and to us. for them and for us too, solidarity today is not an option, it is a duty.
i would like to emphasize in this short time only one thing which has been mentioned by other colleagues but which is essential, namely coordination. i quote dr. david nabarro, the lead coordinator at the united nations for ebola: "coordination is saving lives". the coordination of medical assistance, other forms of assistance, logistics and sometimes the protection we need, is all part of the same process. in that respect, it hurt me and many of us when you and your people in the commission almost begged the member states not only to get going but to do it together. at that time in august, there was little response. fortunately, that's changed this week. meanwhile, the epidemic has taken dramatic forms. but let it be a lesson. the council has said what initiatives have been taken. that is good and i know that all of that was done with the best of intentions, but let us in future recognize much more quickly the commission as the body to act in a coordinated way in this kind of humanitarian crisis. you will find a strong advocate in parliament, including the new commission, on this point. because that is what europe should stand for: i would like to thank the commissioner for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the proverb that it is no use crying over spilt milk has equivalence i believe in most of our languages. be that as it may, one day we will need to ask ourselves if the current events might have had a different course had we acted differently. that goes for iraq; that goes for syria; and i would like to dare to add that it also goes for ukraine. i hope that one day we will face that question. in the meantime we must meet the many challenges posed by those situations, challenges that are humanitarian, military, political and societal. in the humanitarian field, there are millions of refugees, both internally displaced persons (idps) and refugees in neighbouring countries, so there is a need for increased humanitarian assistance and i hope that, at the international donor conferences which are being organised, many member states and the eu will come up with increased support. there is also the need for better protection of minorities, including religious ones and all vulnerable groups. on the military front, there is the need to fight islamic state (is) and other extremist militant groups. my group leader called a long time ago for a military intervention in syria, and at the time – i honestly recognise it – i thought he was exaggerating a little bit. unfortunately events have proved him right: had we intervened earlier things might not have taken the bad turn that they did. now, a coalition is being put together to take military action against is, but if afghanistan has taught us anything it is that groups like the taliban or is are not easily defeated, so we will also need political answers: political answers and societal answers. political action means supporting a unified government in iraq; trying to ensure a transition in syria if that is not a completely impossible task, and, if it is, imposing one; strengthening the present regimes in jordan and lebanon; and demanding stronger actions by arab countries. we also want to see clearer action by turkey and iran and, lastly, action to cut supplies and income to is, with sanctions against all those who do business with is.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, we have heard from the chair of the delegation for relations with israel so we should not be surprised that his sympathies lie mainly with israel and the politics of its government. one could share in his sympathy for the state of israel, but not necessarily in that for the politics of the present israeli government. that is something different. when i heard the debate on the numbers of victims on either side, this reminded me of a meeting i had with the chief negotiator for the palestinian side, saeb erekat. at the time i was minister for european affairs of my country belgium. he said to me, ‘madame, we are drowning in our childrenʼs blood. the israeli’s and ourselves are drowning in our children’s blood’. now, that was ten years ago and since then, things have not exactly improved. on the contrary they have got worse, it seems to me. and i would try to encourage us to abandon the arithmetic of death and to engage in the difficult path to peace. i believe it is very important that in this joint resolution before us today we state that in any case the status quo is unsustainable. if a majority, which i expect tomorrow, approves the joint resolution then i believe this is the first time we have said this so clearly. in other words, just returning to the status quo ante, the situation as it was before the ceasefire was – let us say – interrupted, offers no solution and does not offer a solution to a sustainable new situation. i believe that this is an important statement if this parliament makes it: it means that we support the efforts of the high representative, of the commission and of the council on the path to peace.
mr president, the situation of the people and the palestinians in gaza is indeed tragic and has been said on several occasions. in general, the situation of the palestinians in palestine has been dramatic for years. the violence inflicted on them by the israeli government in recent months has put them in a situation that is not more dramatic, but in a serious humanitarian situation. and in the face of this grave humanitarian situation, the union must respond. it must, of course, respond urgently to the humanitarian needs of the people of gaza. but it must also - and i am glad to see that the status quo cannot be the starting point for the discussion - promote the substantive agreement, this agreement of two peoples, two states, which has suffered many failures and for which europe has often been excluded from the negotiations. i therefore believe that europe must take up this part of diplomacy. the agreement is, of course, supposed to guarantee israel's security, but who is questioning that? but today, we don't talk so much about the security situation of israel, we talk more about the security situation of the palestinians. for these palestinians, of course, there is something important: the human connection between the palestinians in gaza and the palestinians in the west bank. that is what we must work on.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0210/97) by mr arndt, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, security and defence policy, on the situation in burundi. today, unfortunately, we are witnessing a growing and worrying drift away from the rule of law, human rights, security and good governance. as the general elections are approaching, scheduled for may-july 2015, relations between the various political parties are deteriorating severely and acts of intimidation are increasing. civil society is increasingly the target of threats, violence and harassment. i do not want to discuss the situation of homosexuals in burundi, who are victims of a genuine and unacceptable political exploitation. the arrest on 15 may of pierre, president of the association for the protection of human rights and of detained persons, who is unanimously recognized at national and international level as the leading figure in the defence of victims of human rights violations in burundi, is a glaring illustration of this. the actions of the government authorities seem to indicate a real autocratic drift. this is unacceptable and it would be good if we sent a clear signal to the president. sir must be released as soon as possible. the elections scheduled for 2015 are crucial. in view of the situation, i would like to formally urge the future vice-president, high representative, federica mogherini, to decide to send an election observation mission.
madam president, commissioner, less than ten years have passed since the end of the civil war in burundi, which lasted 12 years and claimed the lives of tens of thousands of people. the period following the end of the conflict in 2005 was marked by a huge sense of relief as peace gradually returned to the country thanks to the arusha accords. but this euphoria soon faded because while burundi emerged from the most violent period, the country was not able to emerge from poverty. the prices of basic foodstuffs have gone up, soared, as has corruption at all levels of power. the government is becoming more repressive and the political climate is deplorable. the case of pierre claver mbonimpa is the most recent and emblematic example of state repression. one of the leading human rights defenders in burundi was arrested for one reason only, that of criticizing the government in a radio show. i have the greatest fears about the next elections in 2015. the ruling party has been ruling the country for almost 10 years and probably doesn't want to share power. as louis michel said before me, we are witnessing a veritable autocratic drift. we, the european parliament, must send a clear message in support of pierre claver mbonimpa and, more generally, in support of democracy, which is under threat in burundi.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (eec) on the common organization of the market in bananas. first, the rights and freedoms of the factory workers in bangladesh. the recent cases of intimidation and physical violence against union delegates are endless. we must continue to raise this issue with the authorities in dhaka. second, the donation fund for the victims of the rana plaza disaster. despite the efforts of the european commission and the clean clothes campaign, the fund has so far been only half-filled. i would therefore like to see an explicit commitment, commissioner, to send a clear signal to all those involved, and in particular to all the companies involved, so that the victims and their families can still be compensated.
madam president, "about sixty men tried to loot the building and rape the nuns. the attackers first gagged the two night watchmen of the religious mission in the early hours of the morning. they then broke down the door of the room of the vicar anselmo marandy while he was sleeping. then they attacked the convent". this is one of the excerpts from the report dated september 3rd, written by an ngo in bangladesh. these acts took place on 1 september but so many human rights violations have been recorded. the tragedy of rana plaza and the deplorable conditions of the textile workers, including children, were also rightly mentioned. there is no need to remind you also of the violent repression of the protests of january 2014 and the thousands of human rights activists imprisoned under the pretext of having a political opinion. the european union and bangladesh signed a cooperation agreement in 1976 and signed a so-called 'third generation' agreement in may 2000, which includes, if i am not mistaken, a human rights clause. it is time for bangladesh to fulfil its obligations to fully respect human rights, otherwise some agreements may be revised or sanctions imposed.
in writing. - the union should reiterate its support for the ukrainian people and recall the need for any political settlement to preserve the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of ukraine while respecting the rights of minorities. the s&d group therefore condemns once again the annexation of crimea. we must also hope that the ceasefire will be the first step towards a peaceful and comprehensive political solution.
in writing. the situation in ukraine and eu-russia relations are of paramount importance. it is essential that in this type of conflict the eu can speak with one voice. i strongly condemn the 'hybrid war' being waged by moscow, which is deliberately blowing hot and cold. the ceasefire protocol between kiev and the separatist rebels does not allow us to remain unwary when we see its repeated violations. a full withdrawal of russian troops and armed separatist groups, thus ensuring the territorial integrity of ukraine, is a prerequisite for the resumption of the eu-russia political dialogue. in the meantime, i welcome nato's decision to set up a joint rapid reaction force.
in writing. - i voted for this text, of course. as the crisis in ukraine worsened, relations between the european union and russia reached their lowest point since the end of the cold war. in this context, we welcome the ceasefire in eastern ukraine and call on all parties to respect it. new sanctions should only be implemented if russia continues to aggravate the situation in ukraine. however, the union should focus on supporting direct negotiations between ukraine and russia, as well as on osce (organization for security and cooperation in europe) assistance to ukraine in restoring stability and implementing crucial political and economic reforms. the territorial integrity of ukraine must be respected. russia's international partners still expect it to stop supporting russian separatists in eastern ukraine and to stop the flow of military equipment and soldiers across the russian-ukrainian border.
the international community and the european union must step up their efforts to combat the growing ebola epidemic in west africa. it is a tragedy that more than 2,400 people have already died from the effects of the virus. the who has declared the ebola epidemic in west africa a public health emergency of international concern. the united nations has also called for all possible measures to combat the ebola outbreak. the ebola epidemic is a threat to national and international security. there are no adequately researched drugs. so far, there are only experimental drugs. i have already referred to this in a written question to the commission. so far, only early detection and isolation of cases of disease have been effective. the west african countries need our help to do this. i therefore welcome the announcement by the european commission on 5 september 2014 of eur 140 million in funding for the west african countries affected by the ebola virus. however, in the face of the catastrophic situation in the affected regions, the eu must continue to step up its efforts and coordinate its actions with the other international partners. this includes in particular the intensive promotion of medical research so that reliable vaccines and cures against the ebola virus can finally be used.
in writing. - the fight against an epidemic of this magnitude requires coordinated and determined action by the european union and also coordination of the efforts of the international community, including the african countries concerned. this is not only to combat the health damage of the disease but also to ensure the food supply of the affected areas in order to avoid many more deaths. the role of the union's development cooperation policy is here once again essential.
in writing. the ebola epidemic is the deadliest in the world to date. i would like to congratulate the medical staff on the ground and the ngos active on the ground in the five countries affected today (guinea, liberia, nigeria, sierra leone and senegal). the who has declared this epidemic a "global public health emergency", which tells us that we are not facing an african crisis but a global one. the closure of borders has turned this into an epidemic of fear, which could eventually create a real food crisis. immediate and coordinated action is essential to address the spread of the virus. if african countries are to take responsibility, the international community, the eu, the un, the au, must agree on the type of intervention to be implemented. that is why we are calling for a ministerial meeting of the eu council and a needs assessment by the commission. this crisis highlights the need to urgently address the post-2015 agenda.
in writing. - i voted for this bill. this is a major epidemic. i think that the belgian government should take its share of responsibility and help the ngos deployed there. thousands of volunteers are now risking their lives for the safety of the rest of humanity. belgium cannot properly be one of those who have chosen inaction. it has the tools to provide this much-needed support. sending a b-fast team is a serious possibility; their skills and experience would be of great value to the organisations on the ground. the transport of material using the f1630s which move weekly in the region would also be highly appreciated.
in writing. - i welcome the resolution adopted on the isis offensive, because it not only strongly condemns the human rights violations committed by the extremist jihadist group islamic state (is) formerly islamic state in iraq and syria (isis) , but also calls for concrete measures. these measures include not only the call for humanitarian aid for the victims and refugees, such as safe refugee reception camps, but in particular concrete and decisive action. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the european union's cooperation with the countries of the mediterranean to include the countries of the mediterranean and the mediterranean basin. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the time for documenting regrets should be over, and now we must act, because this is the only language the terrorists understand. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which is a fundamental element of the union's foreign policy.
in writing. - the most resolute condemnation of the barbaric acts, the inhuman massacres and the violations of human rights perpetrated by the islamic state, particularly against the civilian population and hostages. the european union and its member states must support international efforts to combat the terrorism of the islamic state and provide maximum humanitarian support to the civilian populations in iraq and syria affected by the abuses.
in writing. the current situation in iraq and syria is alarming. the human rights violations committed by the terrorist group islamic state (is) cannot go unpunished. any use of islam for terrorist purposes is intolerable. a systematic ethnic cleansing is taking place in this part of the middle east. the fight against terrorism requires a firm and coordinated response by the international community more than ever before. in this respect, i welcome the establishment of an international coalition under the auspices of nato. but the eu also has a crucial role to play. violence against religious and ethnic minorities in iraq and syria has led to the mass displacement of civilian populations. this exodus is not only triggering a strengthened european humanitarian response, particularly in terms of hosting refugees, but also a security response. finally, eu member states must immediately put in place a strategy to deter european citizens from joining the ranks of is, which takes into account both security imperatives and civil liberties.
in writing. - the images that have been streaming on our television screens for several weeks are unbearable. that is why i voted unreservedly in favour of a european position strongly condemning the attacks perpetrated by the islamic state. iraq and syria are experiencing an unprecedented political and humanitarian crisis: 1.4 million iraqis and 6.4 million syrians are displaced, a growing number of refugees, populations that are crying out for urgent humanitarian aid. we must help them to break out of this impasse and put an end to the activities of extremist organisations, which are reinforced by 10,000 foreigners, including european citizens, including belgian citizens. how long are we going to let these terrorists violate the basic principles of human rights and humanitarian law with impunity: murder, kidnapping, slavery, sexual and physical assault, torture...? how many innocent people, including women and children, will have to die? these islamists today act like barbarians, without faith or law. the people and public authorities of syria and iraq need the international community to contain and repel, by all means, the offensive expansion of is.
in writing. - i voted for this text, which was drafted by our colleague mr bostinaru. the extreme and unprecedented violence being carried out by the islamic state (is) in iraq and syria is extremely worrying. the executions of james foley and steven sotloff have been a profound shock to our group. we believe that the eu and its member states must do everything necessary to contribute to the release of all remaining prisoners. we are also concerned about the large number of european jihadists involved. eu countries must find a common solution to bring them to justice. in the meantime, it is important to remember that isil is a minority group of fundamentalists. the muslim and arab countries are our allies in the fight against these extremists.
in writing. - libya is in chaos today and the first victims are civilians. the international community must make every effort to stop the cycle of violence and to achieve a ceasefire between the various belligerents. libya must rebuild itself on the basis of a state governed by the rule of law, respecting democratic values and human rights. those responsible for violations of human rights and international humanitarian law must be brought to justice.
in writing. i condemn in the strongest possible terms the escalation of violence in libya and call on all parties to come to the table with a view to concluding a ceasefire. political divisions remain deep, a sense of mistrust is palpable, and given the proliferation of weapons beyond the effective control of the authorities, the security situation remains extremely fragile. i support the work of the un (unmil) through its support mission in libya to promote the libyan national political dialogue. the commission and the eeas should ensure coordination of member states' action in order to act in parallel with the un and nato. the priority is to create effective security forces and reform the judicial system. finally, there is an urgent need for a coordinated eu response to the growing migratory pressure from the countries of the south, particularly from libya. the aim is to establish a genuine common european immigration policy, which would also be a response to what some call the 'globalisation of indifference'.
in writing. - the eu should work with the un special envoy to help libya achieve a ceasefire between the warring parties and to put the country on the path to peace. the international community must focus on assisting libya in the establishment of state institutions, including national security forces. the lack of security jeopardises any prospect of a democratic transition and can only increase the suffering of the population. the security of the eu is also at stake. the eu should actively promote a partnership with regional actors, namely egypt and tunisia, to contribute to the establishment of good governance, the suppression of violence, terrorism and crime, and the realisation of the aspirations of the february revolution.
in writing. the suffering of israeli and palestinian civilians after 50 days of intense fighting is intolerable. i commend the remarkable work of unrwa in dealing with one of the most serious humanitarian crises gaza has experienced in decades. efforts must be continued to allow humanitarian aid to flow freely in gaza and to restore access to municipal water. i welcome the role of the egyptian authorities as mediators in securing this hopeful ceasefire, which provides for the opening of the crossings between israel and the gaza strip and the easing of the blockade imposed by israel since 2006. we must now work to create the conditions for a lasting ceasefire which will eventually allow the creation of two independent states. this requires the inclusion of the various regional and international actors. this would be an opportunity for the eu to reactivate and review the mandate of its missions eubam rafah and eupol coops.
in writing. - i voted against the joint motion for a resolution on israel and palestine after the gaza war and the role of the eu. this is a weak, biased and factually incorrect text. there is uncertainty about the eu's role in this conflict. there is not even any suggestion that the eu should play a more active role. there is no reference in the text to the disproportionate use of force and casualties between israel and palestine. there is no mention of the failed peace talks (april 2014) and the deliberate sabotage of the peace process by israel. nor is there any reference to israel's failings in the ceasefire: the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the agreement on the european free trade association. nothing is said about the dubious role of egypt and the conclusion that the second round of talks in cairo may not take place. nor is there any reference to the responsibility of the un. it is a pity that there is no reference or condemnation of yet another land grab in the west bank, the biggest in the last 30 years. there are many factual errors in the resolution, read paragraphs 2 and 5. this is a rig.
in writing. - a political impasse coupled with a desperate humanitarian situation has settled in palestine. this is unacceptable and the european parliament must take a decision on this very important matter. we are aware of the good work done in israel by many civil society organisations and political parties working for peace and reconciliation with palestine, and we are convinced of israel's legitimate right to live in security. however, this cannot be the only argument to be taken into account in this conflict, and it cannot be used as a pretext for committing a humanitarian massacre, as in gaza. this is the worst political and humanitarian situation i have seen in palestine in the last 20 years. the palestinian people live under the daily threat of death and destruction, and the palestinian political leadership is exhausted and impatient. in these circumstances, the socialist group and the european union have a responsibility to assume and a role to play. they must help both sides to return to the peace process. the only way to do that is to support the efforts of mahmoud abbas and to strengthen his position, because he is the best ambassador for peace in the middle east.
in writing. - i voted against the commission's proposal for a delegated regulation amending annex i to council regulation (ec) no 1528/2007 applying the arrangements for products originating in certain states which are part of the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of states provided for in agreements establishing, or leading to the establishment of, economic partnership agreements, as amended by regulation (eu) no 527/2013 of the european parliament and of the council of 21 may 2013 amending council regulation (ec) no 1528/2007 to exclude a number of countries from the list of regions or states which have concluded negotiations. the text does not meet the objectives of the authors and does not add to the existing rules.
mr president, i listened carefully to the commissioners on the actions they want to take, but i also read the council conclusions carefully. of course, your goal is to gather as many financial, technical and human resources as possible and to coordinate all of this. unfortunately, the needs are still great today. msf has given us concrete information indicating that many needs on the ground remain unmet. what is your answer? today, the spread of the epidemic is far from contained. what is your answer? there is a clear slowdown in the delivery of aid to the ground. what is your answer? how do you respond to all this in practice? with all due respect to doctors without borders and unicef, whose impact you have mentioned, this is a global health crisis and it is not right to put this burden on ngos and leave them in charge. i think there is a real role for european public services to play in supporting the fight against an epidemic like this. finally, i would like to say that although it is important to establish diagnostics at the entrance, these can never, under any circumstances, be an argument in favour of closing our airports, which would lead to the isolation of the countries affected by the virus.
madam president, today 1% of the youth guarantee fund has been paid to the member states. the commission blames the member states, the member states blame the commission. in this game, it's the young who are the losers. so i would simply ask you this question: what are you going to do to speed up the process of a mechanism that was decided in 2013, knowing that we are now in 2014? first, do you envisage a proper framing of the measure, which allows everyone to find themselves in what they want to do with these young people? secondly, do you foresee the question of prefinancing? today, two member states are entitled to prefinancing, why not all member states? thirdly, it seems that the union is taking back with one hand what it gives with the other. some public operators have to make savings because of austerity, and they do so at the expense of young people. could youth support measures not be made immune to the current austerity plans, thereby securing investment from both the member states and the union? (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, i believe that the youth guarantee meets the need of the member states to respond particularly to the situations of young people. contrary to what you say, the youth guarantee meets the specific needs of young people in the neighbourhoods, not just in regions or member states. it is a tool which, if it were fluidized in relation to the means we are giving, could respond perfectly to the realities of the field.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is not always easy to overcome the ideological contradictions in this parliament in this matter, but i think we have managed to write a very solid report. i also think it is important that this parliament should be able to express its views on the european semester. it is a very important policy instrument for the commission and for the european institutions to enable economic coordination between member states. i therefore call on the whole of parliament to support this report by a large majority in the vote tomorrow. we all know that our european economy has been through the worst crisis since the second world war. the very weak economic recovery now taking place shows that the crisis is not yet over and that we still have to make additional efforts. we are therefore here in the european parliament, with the european institutions and the member states, making arrangements to get out of the crisis together. budgetary discipline, national reforms, but also european investment must make it possible to create economic growth and jobs again. that is also the main message of my report. that is the main message i will be bringing here today on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. the work is not finished. the crisis has shown that we have lived for a long time at the expense of future generations and this must be restored. the crisis has also shown that our economies are strongly interconnected, whether we like it or not. we cannot therefore afford to look only at our own backyard, because if we do, we risk actually losing a whole generation of young people. member states will therefore have to show more ownership of the agreements they make with the european institutions. it is not always easy politically to explain what needs to be done; the necessary reforms to be implemented in the various member states. but the european semester makes it clear that coordination is needed. we must make the best use of european funds to support innovation, research, infrastructure investment. but at the same time, member states must also realise that ownership is necessary to make economic coordination, with this report and with the european semester, really possible. if we do not do this, if we tolerate the fact that some member states do not take account of europe at the expense of other member states, what is the future of the european semester and what is the future of the european union? i also think it is important to continue debating in this parliament and to ask for more democratic control of the whole process. my report is very clear on this point too. the work isn't done there either. we must ensure that the european parliament can play its full role as a democratic institution exercising democratic control over european processes. the community method is, of course, the appropriate method for this purpose. we must, for example, ensure that democratic control is exercised over all the programmes proposed by the troika. my report also sets out very clearly the tasks that still lie ahead. firstly, a number of tasks at european level to strengthen our competitiveness, to ensure that the member states, but also the european union as a whole, remain competitive, to conquer new export markets and also to make a full commitment to supporting the growth that must come from smes, the business community and the private market. we must also make structural reforms in the labour market, in the pension system, in social security, not to organise social breakdown, certainly not, but to modernise our social security and to ensure that future generations can continue to benefit from it. the conclusion is therefore quite clear. all member states must take their responsibility. only 10% of european recommendations are actually put into practice today. the policy must be better coordinated at economic level to ensure that we can create growth and jobs. we must also ensure that the course europe has chosen is maintained. it will also produce results in the long term in terms of growth, jobs and employment. i think the right policy mix is a combination of monetary policy, fiscal policy and structural reforms. i therefore ask this house to support my report with full conviction tomorrow. i hope that we can send a clear signal to the council and the commission to ensure that the european semester remains the essential policy instrument needed to create new economic growth in europe and the member states.
president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. citizens, taxpayers, businessmen, they are in a difficult situation in europe today. we therefore welcome the emphasis in the report on economic growth, competitiveness, jobs and the need to tackle poverty in an integrated way. that's good. that's good. but we believe that the european union will only be truly successful if it is close to the citizens and therefore focuses and intervenes in areas where it can offer real added value. so a europe that is strong where it is needed. and perhaps the report could have been a little more ambitious in that respect. more fundamental to us is the observation that the tax burden in many member states is already very high today, but that this report nevertheless chooses to give the european union additional fiscal capacity. we as a party do not choose an irresponsible transfer union but a union of responsible member states. the time for budgetary follies is over, ladies and gentlemen. let us therefore put forward as many measures as possible to strengthen competitiveness. and this idea is also in this report. this report is a good starting point. we'll admit that, too. but above all, let us try to increase the number of gears and create jobs in practice.
i'm sorry to interrupt the fun and glory of your semester party. there is a wise french saying: "qui veut trop prouver, ne prouve rien". if you try to prove too much, you end up proving nothing. i doubt whether you, ladies and gentlemen of the european majority, are sufficiently aware of how meaningless your document is, how meaningless this unlikely accumulation of meaningless clichés really is. as a critical member of the european parliament, however, i should be happy with so much non-binding non-speech, because this so-called semester is much more than the coordination of economic policies and cooperation. it is a philosophy, above all an ode to your philosophy, the philosophy of far-reaching repression, the philosophy of suffocating unification, the philosophy of the tasteless sausage of unity, and all that overlaid with your philosophy on immigration, when in fact the member states and the peoples of europe need autonomy, freedom and oxygen instead of this.
mr president, i would like to thank our colleague mr de backer for his report, in which i agree with certain aspects of the proposal which emphasize the need for ambitious initiatives based on an investment plan to revive and support economic growth and, above all, of course, job creation. however, i think there are still important points missing. for example, no request is made to the european commission for details on mr juncker's famous 300 billion investment plan, in particular whether this money is fresh money or not, and how it will be divided between private and public investment, and also, above all, what types of investment will be supported. the report also contains many references to administrative simplification for companies - that is a good thing - but it does not mention any safeguards for the protection of workers and, in particular, in terms of health and safety rules at work or information and consultation of workers for social dialogue. paragraph 23 emphasizes the economic macro-conditionality of access to the structural funds, which is still tantamount to punishing those who need it the most twice. the report also mentions the reduction in labour costs, which is mainly offset by green taxation, but says nothing at all about the taxation of capital. i think that these points are obviously lacking in this report because, in my view, it is not just a few details that need to be changed, as has been said, but the direction and the method. i think all our young unemployed people need it.
rapporteur. - mr president, colleagues, thank you for your input during the debate. in the final conclusion i cannot go into all the remarks, but just let me say this: in the end it is very clear that every part of the european institutions, be it parliament, be it the commission or be it also the member states, have to promise and follow through on what they have promised in the past. let me begin with the member states. if you come to brussels and within the european semester you agree to implement certain structural reforms to make sure that your deficits are being reduced, that you implement the necessary reforms to modernise your economies, a 10% success rate is not enough. you will have to perform better. also we, as a parliament, will have to make sure that the scrutiny we apply through the process of the european semester is stronger. also at european level there is still a lot to be done. mr katainen has made a good point on completion of the single market, but also completion of the capital market, of the energy union and of the digital market will be a high priority for the next commission. it is also necessary to say that, with all these structural reforms, we do not have to do them because we are told to by brussels; we are doing them because our citizens want them, because they understand that modernising our economies, making them more competitive, attracting private and public investment to make our economies grow and to create employment is the essence of the european project. i urge you all tomorrow during the vote to think very deeply about the road that europe is taking and to support the report that i have presented here today. i hope that we can have full support for this report and that we can continue like this in the future.
in writing. - i am pleased that a project has been set up to support the reintegration into the labour market of 633 workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis in 142 companies active in the manufacture of metal products in spain. the economic crisis has had a severe impact on these different sectors across the european union. the decline in industrial production has had an impact on employment. almost 600 000 jobs were lost in spanish industry between 2008 and 2012, including 150 000 in the manufactured metal products sector. these job losses represent respectively 24% of total employment in industry and 35% of total employment in the metalworking sector. the loss of jobs in the metal products sector was even greater in the comunidad valenciana. indeed, the number of jobs in the metalworking sector in this region decreased from 35 868 in 2008 to 20 873 in 2012, representing a decline of 43%, eight percentage points more than at national level.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to help workers who have lost their jobs as a result of developments in world trade and the victims of the financial crisis. the request, submitted by spain, concerns redundancies in the steel industry. spain is one of the member states most severely affected by the crisis. the latter has, inter alia, led to a decline in demand and production of metals and metal products. manufacturing of metal products decreased by 23.3% in 2009 compared to the previous year and by 36.6% between 2008 and 2013; the sector's turnover decreased by 38,5% in the period from 2008 to 2012 and job losses represent 43% of total employment in the metallurgy sector. the aim is to help 300 of the 633 redundant employees in 142 enterprises in the comunidad valenciana region. the aid will amount to eur 1 019 184 and will help to co-finance active labour market measures focusing on vocational guidance, placement, training, etc. this request has my support and that of the european parliament.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of this report which will make it possible to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for the 633 redundancies at comunidad valenciana/metal. these redundancies will only worsen the unemployment situation in a region which is already particularly fragile, given that the metal products sector accounts for 25.4% of regional industrial employment. the number of jobs in the metalworking sector there has risen from 35,868 in 2008 to 20,873 in 2012 - a decline of 43%. while european financial aid to redundant workers should be more dynamic and provided as quickly and efficiently as possible, a european strategy for the steel industry is also needed. it's vital today.
in writing. i welcome the granting of a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund, which the belgian authorities had requested from the eu in the wake of the redundancies at the assembly plant and at ford genk's suppliers. the fund was set up to provide additional support for workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. the fund finances personalised measures for the reintegration of jobseekers, encourages self-employment and business creation, provides mobility grants and grants for disadvantaged or elderly workers. the redundancies which have been made and those which are likely to be made will have a serious impact not only on the labour market in the province of limburg but also on the whole of the flemish region. it is therefore gratifying that the eu has accepted belgium's request and is providing funds to support the displaced workers, in the hope that the measures taken will help them to secure permanent, long-term and thus stable employment.
in writing. - ford genk was hit very hard by the industrial rationalisation measures brought about by the 2008 banking and liberal crisis. its workers have been hit hard by the waves of redundancies due to the overproduction of the automobile industry in relation to demand and it is therefore quite logical that the egf should be mobilised to help them with their socio-occupational reintegration.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), established in 2006, aims to help reintegrate workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in world trade. in 2009, its scope was extended to include victims of the financial crisis. the request, submitted by belgium, concerns redundancies in the automotive sector; the commission has also taken note of the reductions in redundancies at the ford genk assembly plant and at 10 of its suppliers in belgium. the aim is therefore to help 479 dismissed employees. the aid will amount to approximately eur 570 945 and will co-finance active labour market measures focusing on job search, training and retraining. i regret, however, that 33 dismissed employees were left on the sidelines and were not able to benefit from this aid for purely democratic reasons. this request has my support and that of the european parliament.
in writing. it is no secret that the automobile industry has been going through some difficult years in europe. the closure of ford genk will have serious consequences not only for flanders but also for the whole of belgium. more than 11,000 jobs will be lost in the next two years and the province of limburg will lose its largest employer. european aid will be decisive for our workers. in the case of ford genk, eur 57.0945 will be mobilised to help workers find work or to enable them to undergo training for reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for the workers of ford genk. the use of this envelope will make it possible to provide individual assistance to these workers and help them get back on the path to employment. the importance of this fund for the support of workers is beyond dispute, but i remain critical on two points. firstly, the fact that the egf can only intervene when more than 500 workers have been made redundant by a single undertaking (including suppliers and downstream producers) seems to me too reductive. many workers have had their smaller businesses closed and have therefore not been able to benefit from this fund. i therefore hope that the 500-employee threshold will be revised downwards. in addition, the actual mobilisation of funds takes far too long, whereas it is when workers lose their jobs that they need support. i therefore ask that the decision-making process to mobilise the egf be accelerated.
in writing. - this afternoon, the ps delegation to the european parliament voted in favour of mobilising more than €1.4 million to support the workers of ford genk and the carsid steelworks in charleroi. the aim of this aid is to provide vocational reorientation and training for the 1231 workers affected by restructuring and redundancies in their enterprises. this fund is a symbol of a europe that can be more united. the egf makes available €150 million each year to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in international trade due to globalisation. the funds are used for training, retraining of workers, programmes to help people start their own businesses, etc. that's great news. the fund gives rise to hope that the construction of a social europe will finally begin. it is important to understand that precariousness and competition between european employees are not the norm. it is up to europe to guarantee the protection of workers. social europe is the only one that can reconcile citizens with their institutions.
in writing. i welcome the granting of a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund, which the belgian authorities had requested from the eu in the wake of the redundancies at the steel manufacturer carsid s.a. this fund was set up as an expression of eu solidarity to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in the world trade pattern. the rapid decline in the eu's share of the world market for crude steel, a decline in demand for steel from the automotive and construction sectors as a result of the economic crisis, and an increase in production costs have in particular affected many regions in recent years where employment is highly dependent on traditional heavy industry. the redundancies at carsid's production plant near charleroi therefore unfortunately hit an area already characterised by a high rate of longterm unemployment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. the measures co-financed by the fund include job search assistance, active job counselling and various retraining and training measures and are therefore more than welcome. however, it would have been desirable to have examined the application a little more quickly, since the fund's support should be provided as quickly as possible.
in writing. - as carolo, it is of course with satisfaction that i have seen a broad consensus in the european parliament to approve the grant of eur 911 000 from the european globalisation adjustment fund to help the social and occupational reintegration of carsid workers. this european aid has enabled, through regional pre-financing, individual support for workers with a satisfactory result, since 500 of them have found employment, even if sometimes precarious, in this period of economic crisis. however, 177 people were unable to find work after the closure of a blast furnace, which was hit particularly by the crisis in demand and the rise in raw materials created by the economic and banking crisis of 2008. the charleroi region has unfortunately been hit hard by this liberal crisis. i will of course also be extremely attentive to the requests for the fund for the mass redundancies at caterpillar, st gobain and duferco by employers who are much more concerned with financial rather than social reasons.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), established in 2006, aims to help reintegrate workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in world trade. in 2009, its scope was extended to include victims of the financial crisis. the request, submitted by belgium, concerns redundancies in the steel sector. the aim is to help 752 employees who lost their jobs as a result of the dismissal of 939 people as a result of the closure of carsid sa's site in marcinelle. the aid will amount to eur 911 934 and will help to co-finance active labour market measures such as individual jobsearch assistance, training and retraining, etc. this aid is certainly not commensurate with the tragedy experienced by the workers made redundant, but it is a sign that europe, if it has not prevented it, is sensitive to their plight. i regret, however, the length of time it has taken the commission to examine this matter. this request has my support and that of the european parliament.
in writing. the steel industry is facing serious economic difficulties in europe. carsid sa is not spared and is suffering from the general decline in steel demand in the automotive and construction sectors. by deciding to provide financial assistance to the workers made redundant by the belgian company carsid s.a. through the european globalisation adjustment fund, europe is demonstrating its real potential for helping workers reintegrate into the labour market. it is essential to help our workers, to ensure that they have stable and sustainable jobs in the long term.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for the workers of carsid, whose situation i know all too well. the use of this envelope will make it possible to provide individual assistance to these workers and help them get back on the path to employment. that said, although the importance of this fund for the support of workers is not to be demonstrated, i remain critical on two points. firstly, the fact that the egf can only intervene when more than 500 workers have been made redundant by a single undertaking (including suppliers and downstream producers) seems to me too reductive. many workers have had their smaller businesses closed and have therefore not been able to benefit from this fund. i therefore hope that the 500-employee threshold will be revised downwards. in addition, the actual mobilisation of funds takes far too long, whereas it is when workers lose their jobs that they need support. i therefore ask that the decision-making process to mobilise the egf be accelerated.
in writing. - this afternoon, the ps delegation to the european parliament voted in favour of mobilising more than €1.4 million to support the workers of ford genk and the carsid steelworks in charleroi. the aim of this aid is to provide vocational reorientation and training for the 1231 workers affected by restructuring and redundancies in their enterprises. this fund is a symbol of a europe that can be more united. the egf makes available €150 million each year to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in international trade due to globalisation. the funds are used for training, retraining of workers, programmes to help people start their own businesses, etc. that's great news. the fund gives rise to hope that the construction of a social europe will finally begin. it is important to understand that precariousness and competition between european employees are not the norm. it is up to europe to guarantee the protection of workers. social europe is the only one that can reconcile citizens with their institutions.
in writing. - this aid will help to reintegrate 2 357 of the 6 120 workers made redundant by peugeot citroën automobiles into the labour market. the mass layoffs in this company could damage the entire economy of a region. i welcome the introduction of a plan to re-employ psa workers who have been victims of the liberal austerity policies.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), established in 2006, aims to help reintegrate workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in world trade. in 2009, its scope was extended to include victims of the financial crisis. the request, submitted by france, concerns redundancies in the automotive sector. the aim is to help 2,357 workers made redundant by peugeot citroën automobiles in the île-de-france and brittany regions. the aid will amount to eur 12 704 605 and will help to co-finance active labour market measures such as individual jobsearch assistance, training and retraining, etc. i regret, however, that we were not able to help more workers who had been made redundant, given that in total peugeot citroën automobiles had to part with 6120 workers. this request has my support and that of the european parliament.
in writing. - i welcome the vote on this report which will make it possible to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for part of the 6120 workers made redundant by peugeot citroen automobiles at the sites in aulnay-sous-bois and rennes, france. but it is worth asking: between 2000 and 2012, world vehicle production increased by 44%, while in the same period production fell by 25% in western europe, and production in third countries (south korea, china, indonesia, etc.) increased significantly to 47% of world vehicle production (from 15% in 2000)!
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr barroso, you are often described as a follower rather than a leader. i believe, on the contrary, that you are someone who is capable of making decisions and choices. the first choice i remember seeing you make was in 2003, before you became president of the commission. that was when you made the resolute choice to side with mr bush, mr aznar and mr blair in support of the invasion of iraq, but come on! it's ancient history, you know. in your ten years in office, you have made a series of choices, and i will point to three of them. the first was to respond to the crisis, on the one hand, mainly through the troika and, on the other, by reviewing the economic governance of the european union, with modes of action that are at once deaf to inequalities, completely insensitive to ecological challenges and completely blind to the requirement of democratic legitimacy, all while placing the rights of creditors at the top. you also chose not to bet on the european union regaining its competitiveness and its capacity to create value by deliberately choosing to be the continent on the planet that becomes the world champion in resource and energy conservation, the only way for us to conquer our strategic autonomy but also our competitiveness in a sustainable way. finally, you have chosen not to put an end to the constant blackmail to which our democracies are subjected, a blackmail exercised by the financial markets, by financial firms deemed too big to fail and by multinational companies to which, through trade agreements, you want to give rights that would give them greater legitimacy and sovereignty than those of our democracies. the result of the races: today, 25% of europeans - a figure i have often quoted here - or one in four europeans, are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. that's 4% more than five years ago. twenty-seven million europeans are unemployed, without jobs, and i am not talking about the working poor and the underemployed. that's three million more unemployed than five years ago. by the way, where's the growth? if anyone has seen her, please tell me, i haven't seen her. if anyone has also seen a reduction in the national debt, let them tell me, it has escaped me. the result of the races is that today less than a third of our citizens still have confidence in the european integration process, compared with almost half five years ago. here are the results of the races! so it would be a bad trial to tell you that this is your responsibility and your responsibility alone. everybody knows that's not true. nevertheless, mr barroso, i would have expected you to take a much stronger initiative in defending this article of the treaty on european union, which recalls that the union places solidarity, particularly between generations, and social justice at the heart of its project. that is why our citizens no longer trust europe today, because that part of the treaties has been forgotten. i would have counted on you as the guardian of the treaties to remind the heads of state or government and, from time to time, the majority of this parliament of this.
blue-card question. – that is right, you invited it. so basically, you know what the answer is. i mean if we want to balance a primarily renewables-driven energy mix, we need conventional gas; that is one thing. but would you not agree, when you talk about cheap energy, that if you want to transition our energy mix from where it is today to where it needs to be, that requires investment, and while you invest, that increases your costs temporarily. so back to you, as a financial person: how do you manage the financial transition to make sure that you can afford the investments now to get to cheap energy tomorrow?
for the greens/efa group mr president, i must be a very naive or a little bit optimistic on the edges from time to time, but i remember that in march 2011, after the fukushima disaster, the very pro-nuclear chancellor merkel said to herself: "you know, the energy transition is an environmental requirement and an economic opportunity for germany". and she went all in. i thought that after the ukraine crisis, all european leaders would have come to the conclusion that this is not only an environmental requirement and an economic opportunity, but also a strategic imperative. i therefore expected the council, which will be meeting shortly, to adopt the european parliament's position very easily. i would remind you of the delvaux report, adopted at the end of the previous parliamentary term, which stresses the need for a threefold objective, both ambitious and binding. because, as you know, i couldn't find the french equivalent of "what gets measured, gets done". and conversely, what is not measured is not done. we had binding targets for co2 reductions and for the share of renewable energy, and we are meeting them. we had a non-binding target for energy efficiency. and guess what happened next? we're not reaching it! the only way for europe to achieve what it believes it must achieve is to set itself a triple binding objective. this is an environmental requirement, i would remind you. climate change is already affecting the european union; it is not just the pacific ocean, but also italy or france. so, soon you will no longer know bordeaux wines as you know them today. so it's an environmental requirement. of course, this is also a geostrategic requirement if we are to achieve energy independence. it is not by replacing dependence on putin or the gulf sheikhs with dependence on the united states or africa that we will be independent. if we want to be independent, we have to turn to renewable energy. finally, it is an economic opportunity. as i said to josé manuel barroso, if europe wants to have something to offer in the world of the 21st century, if it wants to be one step ahead not only in terms of technology but also in terms of business model and social organization, it must achieve an energy revolution. i would therefore urge the council to do so wholeheartedly. (the president agreed to answer two 'blue card' questions) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, i believe that these are two absolutely crucial and well-founded questions. the first question, by mr rübig, concerns the industrial dimension. the energy transition project is first and foremost an industrial project. it is an industrial modernization site, but the production of equipment is also an industrial site. the question is therefore whether we want to promote industrial infrastructure inherited from the 19th and 20th centuries or build the industrial infrastructure of the 21st century. i agree with you that some sectors, which are extremely limited in number, would indeed be very exposed because of too rapid a transition and that these sectors must be protected. we agree. but we must not lump all industrial sectors together. the social question is again extremely well founded. this is a real problem and it is true that during the investment phase of the energy transition we have a rise in the cost of energy which, indeed, affects the weakest. how are we going to proceed? one way must be used in any case: progressive energy pricing, i.e. energy pricing which favours the poorest households fiscally . we wanted to try it in belgium and in some of the places where we greens are in power. this would eliminate the impact of the energy transition on these people, but it also means that we are raising the price of energy for those households who can afford it. that's the first part. the second part is based on the long-term financing of the energy transition, which will allow savings in the future. there are enough financiers in this house to answer this question: how can we anticipate the benefits of the energy transition and use those anticipated benefits to finance the transition?
president. - ladies and gentlemen, it is essential that the heads of government take their responsibility when they take decisions on friday. and let's hope they make decisions on energy and climate, the 2030 energy climate package. because if europe and the council do not take responsibility on friday, we will have a very big problem in lima or paris. then europe cannot say, we take our responsibility, and other parts of the world - i am thinking of china and the united states - ask to take that responsibility too. so now that responsibility must be taken. we drew important lines in the european parliament last year, in february of this year. it is not a question of the line of one group, because our group would like to see it be more ambitious. it is the line of a large majority in the european parliament. and it deals with three enforceable objectives at european level. you know them: the 40% reduction in co2 emissions, the 40% energy efficiency and the renewable energy. and on friday in the council - we heard that - about half the member states would be prepared to reduce emissions by at least 40%. and that 40% is extremely important, because that is what the european parliament wants, and it gives us some flexibility if we want to point out to others their responsibilities on the international stage. so please, let's go that way. but of course, it doesn't stop there. it's a whole package. in europe too, we must stop subsidizing fossil fuels and unconventional fossil fuels and we must also meet those other two objectives. oxfam recently calculated -- and this is a very important source -- that a target of 40 percent energy efficiency, 40 percent energy efficiency, would save every household, every household in the european union, 300 euros. so to say that there is a contradiction between energy efficiency and clear objectives, and the future, is not true at all. i call on the heads of government to take responsibility for this coming friday.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i wish to thank everyone very much for this debate. it was very wide ranging, touching upon various issues on the agenda of the european council. many speakers paid attention to climate and energy policy, which is an extremely important thing for europe but also for the rest of the world. i do not know whether i should say too much about it, because commissioner-designate cañete would be a better specialist in this field. but, if i just mention that this area is, if i should mention one, probably one of the biggest source of competitiveness – if we just manage to deal with climate policy and energy policy together and the most effective way. first or all there is an endless demand for clean technology solutions; there is also endless demand for non-food biofuels, renewables and, if we manage to regulate right things instead of wrong things, we could create incentives for the private sector to innovate and create new solutions to save energy, but also produce cleaner energy and cheaper energy. so, at the end of the day, here in europe we would have better energy for a better price and also technology to sell to other parts of the world. so, basically, as commissioner-designate cañete said in his hearings, we need a better energy market, fewer subsidies but a more unified market and we need better energy connections in order to allow energy to flow across the borders in order to maximise the efficiency of energy production. we also need better regulations for renewables in order to let them come into the market. unfortunately, at the moment we are suffering, for instance, some trade barriers within the european union, meaning that not all the member states allow the best and newest technology to come into their market because they want to protect their own market. i am sure that this house will not accept this kind of behaviour and it is surely one of the issues which will be on the agenda of the next commission. but before there is a next commission there is a european council meeting. i would just like to stop here and say that i will pass these messages from the members on to the current president of the commission, and i am sure we can come back to the industrial renaissance, which is very important for the speaker of the parliament who is the father of this concept in europe, and it is also one part of the climate and energy policy with which we are going to deal in the next commission.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened carefully to the debate which we had before the council of 23 and 24 december, particularly with regard not only to the energy dossier, which will be the focus of the assessments of almost all the people, almost all the honourable members who have spoken. the various aspects that are connected have been taken into account and emphasized, those of energy security in the strict sense, competitiveness, innovation and growth linked to the energy issue, as well as the environment and climate and geopolitical issues linked to supply. and i've heard some reflections on the crisis and the economic recovery and, though more marginally in the debate, the ebola story. i have listened and what i can say is that i will see to it that the issues and points that have been raised in the debate are passed on to president van rompuy for this council at the end of the week.
tomorrow, the proposals for the european energy and climate policy for 2030 will be on the table for nine months. if we are to win the fight against global warming, we must step up our efforts. it is essential that europe sends this signal now, in the run-up to the un climate conference in paris next year. there is an urgent need for a new global climate agreement. the ets must remain the cornerstone of our climate policy, but we must do so by strengthening it substantially in the short term so that it can provide effective incentives for our companies to continue to invest in energy-saving and therefore climate-friendly innovation. and that we do this in a way that doesn't lead to carbon leakage is in the best interest of our companies and the climate. climate and economy, even for energy-intensive businesses, need not be enemies of each other. - no, it's the opposite. we therefore expect an ambitious and comprehensive agreement to be reached on thursday and friday, so that we can move quickly on the concrete legislative proposals.
the rapporteur. - madam president, normally the report on draft amending budget no 2/2014 which i am presenting to you should have been a mere formality. as provided for in the financial regulation, the commission presents each year a draft amending budget to budget the surplus resulting from the previous year's budgetary year, i.e. in this case the year 2013. i said, "normally". unfortunately, things are not normal. anyone who has any idea of the budgetary situation in the union knows that the payments situation is becoming critical, if not dramatic. based on the information available, there were over 23 billion unpaid debts at the end of 2013 and they would approach 30 billion today, if nothing is done. when i say unpaid, i mean very specifically that these are proper invoices which are waiting to be paid and which cannot be paid because there are not enough payment appropriations. this is totally abnormal. it is a real debt, real but hidden, whereas the union's budget must be in balance. this is also intolerable and i would ask the council if it remembers that it adopted a directive a short while ago which was addressed to the member states and which instructed them to demand that the invoices be paid within 30 days. does he understand what the current situation means for erasmus students, who will not receive the money agreed when they are entitled to receive it? does the council appreciate what it means for a state, a local authority or a regional authority, which is already facing a difficult budgetary situation, not to have its bills reimbursed? does he understand what it means for an sme or a research team not to receive the agreed amounts, when the staff has been hired, is in place and is to be paid? the situation has become so critical that the commission has decided to submit to the budgetary authority an amending budget no 3, in which it requests additional payment appropriations for a total amount of eur 4.8 billion. at the same time, it tabled several other draft amending budgets, in which it proposed, for the most part, to include in revenue the proceeds from fines and interest on late payment totalling some eur 5 billion. it is clear from the outset that the member states should not go out of their way to finance the additional payment appropriations in the event of an honourable agreement between the two arms of the budgetary authority. the committee on budgets has taken account of all these factors and has adopted two important strategic guidelines, which it asks our assembly to support unreservedly. firstly, we want to deal with all the draft amending budgets for the financial year 2014 together, i.e. as a whole, when negotiating with the council. the purpose of this block treatment is to prevent the council from rejecting requests for additional appropriations or rebates, but to retain for the benefit of the member states the additional revenue which has increased, almost miraculously, the initial revenue foreseen for the financial year. it is precisely in order to be able to deal with all the draft amending budgets in a single package that this report asks you to approve an amendment to draft amending budget no 2 presented by the commission. if this amendment is not approved, the council will have the power, because of the delay, to seize the surplus for the 2013 financial year for the benefit of the member states, thus depriving the union budget of the possibility of using it to untie the knot of unpaid invoices. the second important line adopted by the committee on budgets has already been expressed today in the organisation and agenda of our work: it is to reach agreement with the council on the amending budgets for 2014 before starting negotiations on the 2015 budget. this strategic choice, which was supported - i would like to stress this - by all the political groups in the committee on budgets, is necessary for us for two reasons. the first, as i said, is that there is an urgent need for additional appropriations. this urgency concerns both the beneficiaries, who are waiting for their bills to be paid, and the union itself, whose credit will be badly affected if it is not able to honour the commitments it has made. secondly, the 2015 budget, which we are voting on tomorrow, will not hold up if the 2014 budget, unchanged, leaves it with a backlog of unpaid debts of several billion. an agreement on the 2014 amending budget is therefore both an urgent necessity and a prerequisite for the adoption of a sustainable 2015 budget. it is for these reasons that i ask you to approve the report i am presenting to you today.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i think that at the end of this debate it is very clear that the commission's position is absolutely clear. we need more money! and it is possible to ensure that member states do not pay out money since additional revenue can be entered in the 2014 budget year. the position of parliament is also clear and you have seen, mr minister, that it is shared by all the political groups. it's amazing but it's real. this shows that there is a keen awareness of the seriousness of the problem in the parliamentary ranks. the council's position is not, or has not yet been, clear. or maybe it is but you're not allowed to express it yet. anyway, i heard two things from you. the first is that you have accepted - by force of circumstances, but you have accepted - that we should globalise the discussion on all the 2014 amending budgets. you did not accept but you heard that we are asking for an agreement on these amending budgets before we start negotiating the 2015 budget. so i just want to say that we understand the effort you have to make and we support you. but you must tell the members of the council that we will not, under any circumstances, let the cancer of the unpaid debts discredit the whole edifice of the european union.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - mr president, in general terms, we could say that we would have liked a more ambitious budget for europe, particularly when it comes to employment and we are faced with high unemployment rates. we have seen, as my colleague has just said, that there was a backlog of 23 billion. with such a backlog, it is therefore difficult for local, regional or national operators to conduct correct employment policies. we can therefore be satisfied that we have increased the amount of this line by 6 billion, but unfortunately, these 6 billion do not compensate for the 23 billion arrears, in particular those in the cohesion policies. we also wanted to improve the situation in social innovation, social dialogue, the european fund for the most deprived and the horizon 2020 programme to boost research and development. these are important priorities for which we do not believe that the resources available are sufficient. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i can tell you that the position of the liberal group is not one of abstention, it is a clear ‘yes’ for the new commission. have a little courage please, mr kamall, at the start of this new commission! we need clear statements and clear positions. we had a lengthy discussion yesterday in our group, and our conclusion was that we will support this commission as part of the pro-european coalition that also supported you, mr juncker, when you were appointed president of this commission. this commission has not received our support for free, however. we expect a different commission from the previous one. we expect a commission with ambition, a commission with vision, a commission that can lead us out of the crisis. we do not expect more of what we have seen over the past five years, namely a commission that became, more and more, the secretariat of the council, a commission that waited first for the green light from paris and berlin – or rather, berlin and paris, to reverse the order – before it acted. to give you one example, we are still waiting in this parliament, five years after the start of the financial crisis, for the legislative package on economic governance. that is the reason why we are giving you our support: to change the way that the commission is operating and to return to the community method and lead us out of the crisis. more precisely, what we hope to see from your commission are three specific things. the first is a credible strategy on investment and growth. and i hope, colleagues, that we can end the stupid discussion we have had for five years with some saying that discipline is more important and others saying that investment is more important. can somebody, perhaps, tell us that both are important, and that you do not have to make a choice between fiscal discipline, one the one hand, and investment and growth, on the other hand? it is impossible to have investment and growth without fiscal discipline and it is – as you said, mr juncker – impossible to have economic growth in the future without good, sound public finances. i hope that mr katainen comes up with a plan as soon as possible. you are talking about eur 300 billion, mostly from repackaging, but you know what the problems are. the problem is that the investment gap today in europe is not eur 300 billion. the investment gap in europe is currently more than eur 800 billion. close to one trillion is lacking in investment – private mainly – in our infrastructure, in digital, in the energy grid, in transport and in innovation. i hope that, in the coming months, you can come forward with a credible strategy and a plan for closing that gap – but not in the traditional way of saying ‘yes, we will increase a little the amount of capital in european investment.’ you need to come forward with a credible strategy like delors did to create the internal market for consumer goods. we need a new way forward in the integration of the european union, in digital, in energy, in innovation and in our capital markets, which are not unified at the moment. that is what we are waiting for, and we need it as soon as possible. the second thing is: can this new structure work? we have always been in favour of coordination and clustering, and i hope it can work, but i have to tell you that i have doubts about it. in a marriage it is very clear: you do not decide everything together. in my marriage, i decide the questions of peace and war, and my wife does the finances, so there is a clear division of power, but i do not know whether appointing two commissioners for the stability pact is the way forward. i think it could be a source of problems, though i hope it is not because i am very much in favour of coordinating and clustering. i hope, in any case, that we will not see internal battles in your commission. we had a long deadlock in the european union with discussions between paris and berlin on the union’s future strategy. we cannot afford to have a deadlock because mr dombrovskis and mr moscovici have different opinions about the application of the stability pact and about future strategy. i want us to look at this question closely and i want you, mr juncker, to intervene immediately if such a deadlock exists. lastly, the new commissioners should also be unequivocal on european values. there is a problem there. you have already indicated the problem. mr navracsics may be competent to be a commissioner, but perhaps not with the portfolio you assigned to him. you announced a few minutes ago that he should no longer be responsible for citizenship. i think that is a step forward, but does it solve the whole problem? i do not think so. yesterday you received a letter from mr bernard foccroulle, the director of the music festival of aix-en-provence, in the name of a long list of eminent european artists, painters, composers, actors, architects and directors of opera houses and theatres. i want to tell you that we fully back the content of that letter. if you do not have other proposals to make, i hope that the structure you have established in your commission, with vice-presidents coordinating and controlling the work of the other commissioners, will also apply to the portfolio of mr navracsics, and that mr navracsics, in doing his job, will be under the control of the different vice-presidents of the commission responsible for civil liberties. that said, the credibility of this commission is not only a question of economics. it is also a question of values, because europe is also about democracy and about human values.
commissioner juncker and commissioners, i would like to say that our group will be supporting your commission in the future. i can also tell you, however, that this has not been an easy exercise. we've had a lot of discussion and thought about it. but you have redrawn your commission somewhat and you have also said important things this morning which give us confidence, confidence in your team. you know that our group is interested in a different europe, a europe where we can invest back in people, in jobs, in our economy. but i would also like to say that not every investment and not every progress is enough for us. that is why it was so important to put sustainable development at the highest level, with one of the most important commissioners on your own . sustainable development is about investing in the right place at the right time. in other words, the 2030 energy package, in other words, the lisbon strategy; these are important tools for investing in sustainability. secondly, mr juncker, sustainability is not just about ecology, it is also about people. not just any job is important to us, but jobs that provide employees with an income at the end of the month. we want a europe where people are not pitted against each other but work together for social welfare. that's for our sustainable development. and as far as we are concerned, this will be at the heart of the policy of the next commission. good luck with that!
in writing. as the final architecture of what the commission will be for the next five years is about to be finalised, and as the european parliament is about to vote its confidence (or no confidence) in the juncker team, it is time to remind the president of the commission of the promises made during the election campaign. 1/ the €300 billion investment plan will have to be made up of fresh money, which is not the result of various recycling operations. 2/ on the withdrawal of the arbitration clause (isds) which allows multinationals to make and break the law, based on their pursuit of profits and to the detriment of citizens. 3/ on a revision of the directive on the posting of workers, which is currently being used too much to organise social dumping, to the detriment of small businesses and workers. 4/ on the return of medicines to dg sanco otherwise, words fly away, but what is written remains. this is the message i want to convey to you. the president of the european commission must honour his commitments and formalise them, otherwise the belgian socialist delegation could refuse to vote on wednesday on the appointment of the new team proposed by juncker.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, let me be clear, after the spokesman of the abstentionist party of europe, the ecr – this could be a new name for mr kamallʼs troops – that our group is very clear; we shall support this new commission as part, mr juncker, of this broad – i hope for you – pro-european majority and coalition in this house. that said, i think that this debate has been useful because it has made it clear that there are two visions of europe: there are those in the majority, the socialists, ppe, ourselves, alde, who think that we have to move forward on european integration, and those like mr farage who has made his classic intervention for the british public – he is already in the british elections, he is not in the european elections but he is in the british elections for the moment. we shall see ʽmarianneʼ le pen in a few minutes. deux minutes de patriotisme français à l'intérieur du parlement européen. elle n'a pas participé au débat mais elle fera un petit show tout à l'heure, en deux minutes. c'est à cela que nous allons assister. (applaudissements) m. lucke est intervenu. mr legutko intervened, and i think he was also against the commission – more clearly than mr kamall – saying that the problem is that we are growing everywhere in the world, but not in europe. that is the problem. his recipe for that is: let us give up the euro and let us give up the european union, like the americans gave up the dollar, the chinese the renminbi or the japanese the yen. i have not heard the americans saying: oh, we have to tackle the crisis: let’s go back to the 50 states and the 50 markets in the united states. what they are saying is: more unity, common action. that is their response to the crisis, and that has to be our response to the crisis now. so things are very clear now. there are those who are saying to public opinion that we shall create jobs by going back to the past. well, i believe in the future and, for that reason, the alde group will vote in favour of the commission.
in writing. i support the new commission of the european union, jean-claude juncker. in his speech, mr juncker rightly referred to the 'last chance commission'. because one thing is clear: europe has no time to lose. the eu must act now and redefine its priorities. europe must help solve social problems, invest in research and development and create jobs and growth. because europe is more than a crisis manager. the hearings of the past few weeks have shown that the european parliament has been critical of the commissioners-designate and their ideas for the future of europe. some commissioners did not survive this in-depth examination and were replaced or their areas of responsibility changed at our insistence. such control would certainly also be useful for the determination of national government members. juncker speaks of a 'new start for europe' - a new start that many citizens feel is sorely needed. the commission is now in a position to put the juncker agenda into practice. my approval of the new juncker commission is not to be understood as a blank cheque in this sense either. it shall be bound by the implementation of the said content. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration.
in writing. - after conducting the last few hours of negotiations on several fronts, we obtained from president juncker several commitments which we considered essential in the context of defending the interests of the citizen. the cast of commissioners is certainly not quite what we would have liked, and the programme is for the moment only a set of promises that will have to be made real, but we have decided to give this commission a chance of the last chance. the 300 billion: we have obtained the assurance that it will not be recycled funds. we will ensure that the commission is used to finance public investment which is essential for recovery and which is useful to the citizens. the arbitration clause (isds) in ttip-ceta: we will never accept that a company dictates the laws for its commercial ambitions or its expected profits, at the expense of the citizen. medicines: we have achieved that medicines are not a commodity, nor are patients customers. this is a significant victory for us, and it affects the health of all citizens. social dumping: a revision of the posting of workers directive, which is currently being used too much to organise social dumping to the detriment of small businesses and workers, is essential.
in the first place, the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one. they do not want europe to prove that it can take the bull by the horns and bring about cooperation in areas where it really creates a great added value. this commission has a historic opportunity to regain the damaged confidence of many europeans in the european project. there 's only one cure for that: i'm going in. the 28 commissioners know perfectly well what they have to do: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. we are counting on each commissioner to work out some very concrete measures in his own field which will directly translate into more growth and more jobs. parliament will support such action with enthusiasm. president juncker, we have not a minute to lose. let us immediately start work on these renewable energy networks, on an ambitious digital new deal, on a massive injection of oxygen into innovative industry so that people associate europe with a hopeful future. good luck to you!
in the case of the netherlands, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against pollution. the european commission must therefore commit itself firmly to a reform agenda. we want to be constructive and work with the new commission on priorities such as completing monetary union, deepening the internal market, increasing energy security and creating jobs. the most important thing, however, is the commitment of the new team to reform. during the hearings, many candidates recognised the urgent need for change, efficient governance at the most appropriate level and less rule-making. the clear powers of mr timmermans, juncker's right hand man, whose core task is to ensure greater subsidiarity and less rule-making, are cautiously welcomed by us; the need for change seems to have been felt in the berlaymont building as well. as a reform party, we embrace this development. we will adopt a critical and constructive attitude in order to assess whether the commission keeps its word and puts its promises into practice. that's our job for the next five years.
in writing. - i have given my confidence to the new european commission without hesitation, but with a demanding and impatient confidence, because the europeans expect concrete results. i am pleased with the new internal organisation of the commission, designed by jean-claude juncker, because i have confidence in the talents and conviction of the 'prime minister' timmermans, the most brilliant commissioner i have heard in the hearings. i am also pleased to learn that the commission will present before christmas its proposal to mobilise eur 300 billion to boost growth in the european economy. finally, i was pleased to note the social emphasis in the new commission's programme. good luck to you, jean-claude!
in writing. - after conducting the last few hours of negotiations on several fronts, we obtained from president juncker several commitments which we considered essential in the context of defending the interests of the citizen. the cast of commissioners is certainly not quite what we would have liked, and the programme is for the moment only a set of promises that will have to be made real, but we have decided to give this commission a chance of the last chance. the 300 billion: we have obtained the assurance that it will not be recycled funds. we will ensure that the commission is used to finance public investment which is essential for recovery and which is useful to the citizens. the arbitration clause (isds) in ttip-ceta: we will never accept that a company dictates the laws for its commercial ambitions or its expected profits, at the expense of the citizen. medicines: we have achieved that medicines are not a commodity, nor are patients a customer, a victory that is important to us and that concerns the health of all citizens. social dumping: a revision of the posting of workers directive, which is currently being used too much to organise social dumping to the detriment of small businesses and workers, is essential.
in writing. - in view of the difficulties encountered in terms of means of payment, it is proposed to allocate the surplus appropriations from the 2013 budget to payment appropriations in the 2014 financial year. this perspective should be supported in view of the size of the outstanding payments and the sectors mainly concerned by them (humanitarian sector, youth, structural funds, etc.).
in writing. it welcomes the adoption of draft amending budget no 2/2014, which allows the carry-over to 2014 of appropriations not used in 2013. i particularly welcome the decision of the rapporteur, mr deprez, to hold the negotiations on amending budgets nos 3 and 4 in parallel, in order to give the union the means it needs to act. amending budget no 3 deals in particular with the need to allocate additional payment appropriations. if the three projects are adopted, the net budgetary impact for the member states will be eur 105 700 000. this is nothing compared to what they could actually give if they had the political will.
in writing. - given the very high pressure on 2014 payments and the consolidation requested by the commission in rdp no 3/2014, it is proposed to allocate the surplus for 2013 to finance a new budget line, numbered 40 04 01, entitled 'reserve for additional payment needs' and appearing in the expenditure part of the budget, rather than reducing own resources based on gni. if the council adopts pbr no 3/2014 without amendment, this amendment will be withdrawn.
in writing. - the budgetary challenges are immense. the n-va advocates a sound budgetary framework that does not shift debts and focuses primarily on competitiveness, growth and jobs. to that end, an effort is required of all. it is not just the member states but also the eu itself that must set the record straight. the n-va therefore supports the council's position on the 2015 budget. the eu institutions can also take concrete measures. the n-va supports the demand for one seat in the european parliament and the strengthening of transparency, control and accountability in the reimbursement of administrative expenses for members of the european parliament. the reorientation of initiatives which do not achieve their objectives (such as europarltv) or which do not fall within the scope of parliament's tasks (risk of duplication, house of european history) should also be discussed. however, a majority in the european parliament is in favour of sticking to the european commission's proposals and sometimes going even further. while we understand the commitments made, we are committed to a strict european budget within the agreed margins. all these considerations have led us to opt for abstention.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the draft general budget of the union, as well as the general budget for 2015 in general. it is important to stress, however, that we rejected the amendments: 1/ on the union's subsidy for bullfighting; 2/ on subsidies for tobacco; 3/ on the history museum. we are in favour of a road map for a single seat.
in the same way, the european union is not a mere institution, but a political entity. wealth can only be sustained if we are willing to invest in new things. at the european council, i reaffirmed that the priority is growth, employment and investment. these demands and statements are not mine. it is a statement by matteo renzi, angela merkel and françois hollande. all three heads of government are represented in the council and could have ensured that the draft eu budget was not cut. what is the lesson? if it becomes concrete, the heads of government will get cold feet. the blame is conveniently shifted to europe. the example of the budgetary allocations for research and development is particularly striking. the reduction of the actual expenditure for horizon 2020 by almost one billion euros is absolutely incomprehensible. if we want to prepare our economy for the future and secure jobs, we must invest in innovation. in other parts of the world, people have long understood this. that is why we need more than just lip service, ladies and gentlemen, right now. the budget must be renegotiated accordingly.
in writing. - the 2015 budget must move away from austerity policies and the union must absolutely promote recovery, economic growth and job creation to help the most vulnerable citizens. this includes support for research, the creation of activities promoting youth employment and regional cohesion policies. we must also meet our commitments in terms of payment appropriations, particularly in the humanitarian aid sector, the structural funds and youth programmes.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the draft general budget of the union, as well as the general budget for 2015 in general. it is important to stress, however, that we rejected the amendments: 1/ on the union's subsidy for bullfighting; 2/ on subsidies for tobacco; 3/ on the history museum. we are in favour of a road map for a single seat.
in writing. - on the occasion of the accession of the republic of croatia as the 28th member state to the eu, it is necessary that the additional protocol to the free trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part, is also ratified in order to ensure that the republic of croatia continues to participate fully in the eu-korea free trade agreement, which is still in force. although this additional protocol has been applied since 1 july 2013, the consent of the eu parliament is a mandatory component in the completion of the process of ratification of this additional protocol. the european parliament has fulfilled this duty in this report.
in writing. - the eu-south korea free trade agreement adopted in 2011 aims to integrate the european and korean economies and remove trade barriers between the two partners. eu exports to korea amounted to €37.8 billion in 2012 and korean exports to the eu amounted to €37.9 billion in 2012. the eu exports that have increased the most under the fta are north sea oil, machinery, motor vehicles and spare parts. i think it was therefore important that croatia could also be part of this agreement.
in writing. i welcome the ratification by the european parliament of the council decision adding an additional protocol to include croatia in the free trade agreement signed on 15 october 2009 between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part. the aim of this free trade agreement is the progressive liberalisation of trade in goods and services and the elimination of customs duties and other barriers between these two economic zones. it is vital for european democracy that parliament ratifies this type of agreement which touches upon the very original nature of the european union, which is to trade with the outside world.
in writing. - on 1 july 2013, the republic of croatia joined the european union and became its 28th member state. on the same day, the additional protocol to the eu-korea fta was signed to take account of this accession and has been applied provisionally since that date. this council decision therefore seeks to ensure, in accordance with the act of accession of croatia to the european union, that that member state will continue to participate fully in the eu-korea fta, which remains in force. the approval of this council decision by the european parliament is mandatory in order to complete the process of ratification of the additional protocol and contributes to preserving the integrity of the union's internal market.
in writing. - i welcome this own-initiative report by the european parliament on the european semester, as it not only highlights the key areas that need to be reformed most urgently, but also points out the shortcomings in its implementation. the european semester is a cycle in which eu member states coordinate their economic and fiscal policies. the key to this is the country-specific recommendations, which provide concrete and tailor-made guidance for each member state's fiscal, economic and employment policies. the aim of the semester is to ensure sound public finances, to promote economic growth and to prevent excessive macroeconomic imbalances. not only is there a lack of coherence between european commitment and the implementation of the recommendations by the member states, but the involvement of national and regional parliaments and the european parliament is also low. while the eu commission's recommendations should leave political space for member states to design policies and specific reforms, they should also propose reforms that are credible. the joint action in the context of the semester is to be understood as a partnership with a clear division of competences between the eu and the member states. the early and maximum involvement of parliaments must also be ensured.
in writing. - certain aspects of the proposal emphasize the need for an ambitious initiative based on an investment plan to revive and support economic growth and above all job creation, and i can only welcome this. however, there are still some points in this report which are unacceptable. first, the mystery of where the €300 billion promised for the investment came from remains. indeed, we still do not know whether this money will come from savings on other policies or whether it is so-called 'fresh money'. this text should have emphasised more the crucial importance of public investment. especially when you consider the frugal nature of private investment. this public investment can, for example, make it possible to create industrial zones and motorways, but also to implement an energy development plan that we are so lacking. in other words, it is one of the main keys to economic recovery and to the future. social protection and workers' health also remain a sensitive issue in this report. the rights of workers are barely mentioned, especially when it is said that the red tape will be abolished through refit.
in writing. if we are to achieve the commission's objectives and emerge from the crisis, we need to take action that will lead to a deep integration of economic and budgetary policies. the crisis has shown europe that it cannot continue to pursue an economic policy based on individual trajectories. in the new post-crisis context in which europe finds itself, we need to revive growth, by achieving the europe 2020 targets for jobs, r&d, sustainable energy, education and poverty reduction. it is a question of stabilizing the economic world, as jean-claude juncker said.
in writing. - the belgian socialists voted against the european semester. on the one hand, the aspects of administrative simplification as mentioned in the report could weaken workers' rights and citizens' health. let us be clear: administrative simplification, yes, but not in any way and certainly not at the expense of the citizen! on the other hand, we cannot support a report which makes such little use of workers' rights. finally, the text does not provide sufficient guarantees as to the major importance of public investment in the process of european economic recovery.
colleagues, kobani has gradually become a symbol. the city and by extension all of kurdistan is virtually the last safe haven in the entire region against the evil of isis. the international community, colleagues, has a responsibility to protect people when their own governments fail. the eu supports the international principle of the responsibility to protect. we're way behind on that. but to defeat the monster, we need not only military strength, but we must also convince the world that our model, in which the protection of life, respect and tolerance are fundamental, is right. as coordinator of the commission on human rights for my group, i therefore insist that the european union shows that universal human rights are stronger than the barbarism of is. that it shows in a coordinated way that it is capable of facing this threat, that it convinces partners like turkey to pour out clear wine and put an end to their ambiguous attitude.
your honor, minister della vedova, like previous operations, mos maiorum is more than just a border control. the main objective is to trace the illegal smugglers or human traffickers and thus to identify organised crime. i can understand that. knowing the facts allows you to respond more appropriately. but i am left with questions about the legal basis and the practical implementation of this operation. frontex will play only a marginal role and this parliament will not be given any information about what will happen to any arrested persons. are there going to be mass evictions? nor is it clear whether there is a link with the european plans for 'smart borders' in which frontex will play a major role. i am surprised, moreover, that the monitoring and detection of migration flows is not being monitored more systematically, but apparently on the basis of ad hoc operations such as these. in short, i would like to hear whether this operation can be reconciled with a coherent and efficient migration policy at eu level. i thank the council for its replies.
in writing. - the extension of the preferential tariff regime for ukraine pending the entry into force of the free trade agreement with ukraine is a major support for the severely affected ukrainian economy. at the same time, however, the european commission must not lose sight of animal welfare and food safety when importing food products and must ensure that the conditions of breeding, production and slaughter in ukraine are brought into line with those in the eu. this is also of great importance for european producers who have invested heavily to bring their products into line with these standards.
in writing. - in order to continue to strongly support ukraine and to strengthen the security of the trading conditions for economic operators, it is essential that parliament use an accelerated procedure for the examination of the commission proposal, so that the extension can apply from 2 november 2014 without interruption. the commission also noted that the extension of the measures would not be effective until the expiry of the existing measures, and that the extension would not be effective until the expiry of the existing measures. furthermore, the autonomous trade measures provide ukrainian companies and producers with a long-awaited opportunity to diversify their outlets away from an increasingly restrictive russian market, and encourage them to adapt their standards and operations to the requirements of the union, thus preparing them for the full application of the full and comprehensive deep and comprehensive free trade agreement from 1 january 2016 at the latest.
in writing. - by this report, parliament gives discharge to the office of the body of european government electronic communications (berec) in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2012. this is only after a delay, since the discharge had to be postponed because of deficiencies in administration. the commission has also taken steps to ensure that the legal basis for the procedure is established. these include budgetary and financial management initiatives, a detailed procurement checklist, staff training, and measures to increase transparency and avoid conflicts of interest. the european parliament has exercised its supervisory role and contributed to the better functioning of the organisation concerned.
in writing. - i voted for the bill. the recent steps taken by the office to improve communication with european citizens on the impact of its activities on them are welcome, in particular the emphasis on measurable and clearly defined objectives that allow for a better evaluation of its activities; the office has started to put more emphasis on its status as a body of the european union by displaying the union logo on certain pages of its website. it is important that this is also done on the berec homepage and systematically in all communications, in order to highlight the contribution of the union budget to the office.
in writing. parliament rightly refuses discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2012. the european parliament has already criticised the council's lack of cooperation in this procedure on several occasions in the past. the council's behaviour is unacceptable, because the examination of the soundness of budgetary management is one of the basic tasks of any parliament. this democratic control is necessary to guarantee general transparency in the use of public funds. but that is precisely what parliament cannot do because of the lack of cooperation mentioned above. the european court of auditors finds errors in its report for the financial year 2012, for example in the design of procurement procedures. he, in turn, makes recommendations. the council must act on these recommendations. however, this has not been done satisfactorily. the parliament must also be informed of the actual and estimated costs of the europa building and the residence palace. the council must finally cooperate properly with parliament. otherwise, it tramples on the right of eu citizens to transparency and information.
in writing. - i voted to discharge. however, it should be added that parliament and the council could start by defining a modus vivendi procedure with a list of documents to be exchanged in order to exercise their respective roles in the discharge procedure. i would urge the council to seek a political solution to this problem, with the council's discharge, regardless of the divergent legal opinions on which parliament and the council continue to rely. good cooperation between parliament, the european council and the council, based on an open and formal dialogue procedure, could be a positive signal to the citizens of the union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european agreement concluded by the european union of inland navigation (uenf), the european boat owners' organisation (ebo) and the european transport workers' federation (etf) on certain aspects of the organisation of working time in the inland waterway transport sector. it is to be noted that it is to be welcomed that the agreement reached by the social partners and the commission's proposal only set out minimum requirements, leaving the member states and/or the social partners free to adopt measures which are more favourable to workers in the sector concerned.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, may i say something as a point of order outside my speaking time? no? ok. i am wondering where mr farage is today in this debate. he was a specialist in offshore tax schemes in the isle of man – he is a specialist and he is not here today! where is he? (applause)we have a specialist there. mr juncker can be the specialist at the government level but mr farage is a specialist at the private level, so we have somebody who really knows how things work. it is not possible to have him but … (the president reminded the speaker that this was included in his speaking time)yes, mr president, you can count my 40 seconds and let us hope that he comes back. i have three things to say to mr juncker and the first is that we now have an investigation by the commission. let us be honest about it. it has to be a serious investigation and not just about three special cases in three countries. it has to be about practices in general. the investigation has to be about whether this is in accordance with eu legislation. the consequences of that are very clear. if this is in accordance with eu legislation, there is no problem. admittedly, if there is no problem then there is a problem with eu legislation, and we have to work on the basis of proposals by the commission, but if it is in accordance with eu legislation, then ok. alternatively, if it is not in accordance with eu legislation then, mr juncker, you know you have a problem and we have to discuss that together and accept the consequences. that is my first point. let us have this investigation but my request is for an investigation before the end of the year. it is impossible for the european union to continue with a shadow hanging over the commission for six months now. we already have one lame duck in washington, it is not necessary to make a lame duck here in europe right now, so my request is that ms vestager be asked to conclude this investigation before the end of the year. my second point is that we need to have a special committee in this parliament too. yesterday the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) discussed this and i think there is common ground between all the groups that we should have a special committee. because this is not only a question of the executive, of the commission having to look into the matters of the member states, it is also our task as a european parliament to have a special committee and to look into these practices. my request to the two big groups, and the other groups, is to support this special committee at the conference of presidents. my third point relates to the content. i think it was fantastic how ms swinburne tried to explain that it is not necessary to have more europe. if there is one topic now where we need more europe, we have it here on the table, and it is a clear indication that what you are saying does not make any sense. how do you avoid these practices if not at european level – with a convergence code at the european level, with european tax compliance legislation at the european level? that is my point to you, mr juncker. you have spoken about two decisions taken by the college this morning and i am in favour of that exchange of information. in fact i want to ask you two things, one on european tax compliance legislation – because we need that if we want to enforce a number of practices – and the other about the convergence code. i do not agree by saying, like mr pittella, that we have to harmonise everything. harmonise everything at what level? not at the belgian level, i hope, (inaudible words off microphone), that is completely crazy, not at the french level as regards some taxation. i think we need a balance between, on the one side, enforceable measures and, on the other side, room for manoeuvre for the member states based on the convergence code. my call to you is to come forward with these proposals. there is a shadow – and you must know that, jean-claude – hanging over the commission. you know that better than anyone because you have enough experience to know that, and we have to remove it as fast as possible. that is the reason why i ask you to speed up the investigation on the one hand, and to come forward with additional proposals on the other.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr juncker, i was not surprised, but i must confess that i am still outraged every day to see how the richest taxpayers manage to evade tax, often legally, with the complicity of the states in a europe that is a rich continent. we regard this tax injustice as a fundamental breach of the social contract in europe. worse still, i think, is a breakdown in confidence, the confidence of our citizens in the ability of their institutions and in the will of their elected representatives to defend the public interest. you know, we often blame the self-employed, the unemployed, the welfare recipients. but it's often -- and luxleaks reminds us -- it's at the top of the income and wealth ladder that the worst profiteers of the system are found, not at the bottom. you are not alone, mr juncker, of course. i remember that it is the very liberal mark rutte and his sidekick, the not very socialist jeroen dijsselbloem, who are in charge of a tax haven - i am obviously talking about the netherlands - which is no less greedy than the grand duchy of luxembourg which you have had the honour of leading. i am not talking - indeed, manfred weber said so - about all those tax schemes which many european states, including my own, have hidden in their tax code, all those tax schemes which consist in making their state a tax haven. mr juncker, as you said, the central issue is that of harmonization. it is time for the european states to stop waging a fiscal war against each other, the only beneficiaries of which are the large companies and the large fortunes, and the victims, the health of our public finances and through them, the health and well-being of all our fellow citizens. it is this tax war that must be ended by tax harmonization. you said you weren't going to interfere with the ongoing investigation. i'm asking you to intervene. i ask you to give mrs vestager all the means she needs to widen and deepen this investigation so that we can put an end once and for all to the tax evasion of which we are all victims.
in writing. we will show no leniency. during his commission term, mr juncker has put the candidates in the most toxic places for them (a speculator mr hill in market regulation, an oil tycoon in climate and energy, etc.) by basically arguing that poachers make the best bodyguards. so let us apply this reasoning to its author: who better than juncker, former prime minister of a tax haven, to put in place a real tax harmonization. we ask for no less. we demand that tax harmonization be introduced, that each member state propose the same taxation for companies to avoid tax dumping. the credibility of the president of the european commission depends on the establishment of european tax justice
the fight against tax fraud, as has been said here on several occasions, must be intensified, not to launch a witch hunt, but because the tax burden in several member states is far too high. that is also the case in my country, belgium. the fact that mr verhofstadt has just now acknowledged this in his intervention was, in my view, the strongest point in his speech. if we want to reduce that tax burden, we have to make sure that everyone pays their fair share, and that is where i was personally disappointed by the words of commission president juncker a moment ago. he is choosing a purely legalistic line. he hides behind the law and nothing but the law. but, colleagues, there is more. there is morality and ethics, and my party is already voting for fiscal competition. because it's good for our competitiveness, good for our economy. but we are opposed to unfair competition, because we consider it unethical. we therefore also call for a thorough investigation of the luxleaks, an objective investigation and one which is carried out quickly.
madam president, mr moscovici, you obviously have a golden opportunity to make a name for yourself here in brussels. so we'll be waiting for you at the foot of the wall on two fronts. the first is transparency. transparency in itself does not solve the problem of tax competition, but it does raise the political price in terms of reputation, both for the recipients of tax gifts and for those who give them to them. two things about this: first, the extension of country-by-country reporting to all multinational companies. this extension must of course be made public, in other words, in the annual reports of companies, just as we have obtained for banks, we must have the right to details of the activity and taxes paid by companies, country by country. secondly, you can help us with the anti-money laundering directive. you know that parliament has voted for a public register of final beneficiaries of all opaque financial structures. we are waiting for the commission's support in the fight - because it is a fight - which we are waging against the council, so as to oblige the council to accept a measure which, after all, is a matter of public health. on the convergence front, on tax harmonization, it is obviously more difficult because you are subject to the law of unanimity. i would like to say two things on this point: firstly, i note that in the context of the parent-branch directive, the netherlands, some of whose representatives are now taking all the credit, are currently blocking the anti-abuse measures that are being negotiated. i also expect the commission to increase pressure on this subject, in particular by publicly exposing an attitude which is exactly in the direction of greater tax evasion. i think that this is a particularly appropriate time to point the finger at those member states which are engaged in double talk. on the consolidated corporate tax base, it is obvious that adopting this base without adopting minimum rates and therefore some convergence of rates does not mean a "one size fits all", but at least some range of rates in the corporate tax framework is clearly insufficient. on this point, i would ask you to encourage the states which, like france and germany, once said they would organise closer cooperation to form a coalition of volunteers to harmonize corporate taxation. go on, then!
in writing. the tax practices mentioned in the 'luxleaks' file are likely to seriously challenge the foundations of the european construction among citizens. how can we expect citizens and workers to do more and more when large companies in the union have mechanisms that allow them to benefit from a ridiculous tax? this is despite the fact that more than 124 million europeans are at risk of poverty. tax and social injustices are intertwined and unacceptable. the president of the commission, formerly the head of the luxembourg government, must act decisively in implementing a programme aimed at genuine transparency and tax harmonization at union level. but the commission must also complete rapidly the investigations which are under way in several tax cases. all this must be planned within an extremely tight and rigorous timetable. the member states will then have to make themselves known. their governments will have to approve the commission's proposals unanimously. the masks will then fall off. we shall be uncompromising on the socialist group level. the european project has no future if it is based on fiscal and social injustices.
the facts are painfully clear to us. they've been listed by most of my colleagues. but the main problem is that 80% of the funds are spent in shared management with the member states and that is where the problems are. the member states are not taking their responsibility. mr da silva caldeira has made that quite clear. in most cases, member states are aware that mistakes are being made but do not act. he himself mentioned the error rates in the rural development, environment, fisheries and health sectors: the commission if the member states had acted, this could have been reduced to 2%. i 'll add: the commission's proposals for the reform of the structural funds are therefore very welcome. if the member states act, we will be at 3.9%. employment and social affairs, now 3.1%. the member states' action rate is 1.8%. it is clear that the member states must act, that there must be an action plan, led by the commission, by mrs georgieva. and the final piece of that must be a national declaration by the finance ministers. in federal member states, this should be a compilation of statements by the finance ministers of the länder, but it should clearly state: as minister of finance, i did my job, i made sure there was sufficient control. we acted where we had to. and if that does not happen, then that minister is politically responsible.
a word of support from someone who's not from ireland but would love to be there. last night i was at a commemoration of the armistice in diksmuide. diksmuide, a town in the flanders fields, became the symbol of the futility of violence, a symbol and a cry for reconciliation, for peace, dialogue, respect and peaceful solutions. these ideas have led to peace in ireland. we have also looked with great admiration in flanders at the courage and commitment of the political leaders of the irish and british peoples to conclude that good friday agreement. and we have always welcomed the involvement of the european union. but unfortunately, peace is never a given. the obstacles that now threaten her are a cause for concern. i therefore count on the fact that we can continue to work together in europe for a lasting peace. we all in europe have benefited from the success of the northern ireland peace process. it should serve as an example for other unresolved conflicts outside europe, but also on european soil. i am thinking here of the conflict and the peace process in the basque country.
madam president, madam commissioner, i wanted to take part in this debate because today, when we hear about religious communities, or communities based on religion, that do not tolerate each other, it is in baghdad. but when i was a child, ten years old and beginning to take an interest in the news, the two towns i often heard about were londonderry and belfast. i'm glad i don't hear much about it anymore. the peace process has been successful up to now. as was mentioned earlier, a minority would like to see the conflict resume. that is why we have a duty to support this resolution, of course, but above all to support this long and difficult process. i would just like to conclude by saying that peace is never achieved for good. it is always a work which must be put back to work, even if there have been some advances which should be welcomed. fortunately, the situation in northern ireland has calmed down, because it was unacceptable - it was close to home. it is true that we come from 28 different countries, but we are affected by what is happening in our neighbours. that is why it is very clear that this process must be continued and that the commission must continue its efforts. it's perfect. i hope that this will go in the right direction and that these conflicts will not be renewed despite the wishes of a minority of citizens.
mr president, the free movement of workers is indeed an essential achievement, but it cannot become an instrument of social dumping. the secondment directive has been revised and the president of the commission has said that he intends to see it applied to the letter and to set up a targeted revision. in belgium, sectors such as construction are now in danger. since 2012, more than 12,000 jobs have been lost and the worst is to be expected if the situation does not change. this dumping endangers the lives of businesses and creates a climate of mistrust among wage-earners, while fuelling the rejection of the european project. the belgian state has put in place a legal system to prevent abuse, but the european commission is now threatening belgium with proceedings before the court of justice, in contradiction to the announced intention to fight vigorously against social dumping. jean-claude juncker said we had five years to succeed. it is therefore urgent that these words be translated into action by implementing the provisions to prevent social dumping. this is a key issue for the european project.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i am going to speak on a subject which may seem a little lighter than the one my colleague has just touched upon, and yet it is just as important. it concerns football, and particularly a match which has put the stability of the balkan region in danger - and perhaps in great danger. in october, the match between serbia and albania took place, and something intolerable happened, particularly in the stands, where insults were uttered against the albanian players. of course, the union cannot say anything to uefa, but the enlargement commissioner and the high representative will have to make every effort to stress the responsibilities of both the albanian and serbian sides in this matter, so that such incidents - there have been others - cannot happen again and, above all, so that the difficult efforts being made to stabilise the region can be continued. sometimes it's just a little thing, and often the football pitches are laboratories. so we have to be very careful about what happened.
in writing. - i'm against the waiver of ana gomes' immunity. on 29 november 2013, during the tv programme 'tvi24 - cara a cara', ana gomes, member of the european parliament, on the issue of the sub-concession of the private use of the viana de castelo shipyards (estaleiros navais de viana do castelo), stated the following: 'it is criminal, there are no other words, this minister of defence is incompetent or even truly malicious, we must check the links between his law firm and the company martifer, which really exercises influence in all political parties [...]. why didn't the government make it possible to order asphalt machines? why has he not replied to the european commission? why did the government terminate the navy's contracts? because he wants to suffocate the shipyards, get rid of the workers to do a favor to martifer, that's all... that's the truth, the government wants to do a favor to martifer... it's scandalous what they're doing in viana do castelo... " josé pedro correia aguiar-branco, minister of national defence in the portuguese government, lodged a complaint against ms gomes with the lisbon criminal investigation and prosecution service on the allegedly defamatory nature of the statements in question.
in the light of the recent events in the united kingdom, the commission has decided to grant the irish authorities a financial contribution of eur 1.5 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund in connection with the redundancies in the fashion jewellery manufacturing company andersen ireland. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers who are suffering from the consequences of structural changes in the pattern of world trade. the fund provides personalised measures for the reintegration of jobseekers into working life, such as vocational guidance or vocational training units. andersen ireland was one of the largest employers in the region concerned. this further aggravates the unemployment problem there: the unemployment rate in the largely rural area is already twice as high as the national average. it is to be hoped that the measures taken will contribute to lasting, long-term and thus stable employment for the people.
in writing. - the aggressive competition from third countries on the european market for fancy jewellery has had a serious impact on andersen, which cannot leave us indifferent. i can therefore only support the €1.5 million in aid to ireland to help 138 former employees of the company and 138 unemployed young people to enter the labour market.
in writing. - this is the fourteenth application under consideration in the 2014 budget and it seeks to mobilise a total amount of eur 1 501 200 from the egf for ireland. the total number of beneficiaries is 276. the request was sent to the commission on 16 may 2014 and supplemented by additional information, the latest of which was received on 11 july 2014. the commission concluded, having regard to all the relevant provisions of the egf regulation, that the application fulfilled the conditions for the granting of financial contributions from the egf. the irish authorities argue that, in terms of both volume and value, imports from third countries have come to dominate the european market for fancy jewellery for the last five years or more. in 2008, eurostat figures cited by ireland show that sales within the union by both union and third country producers started from a nearly identical position of 56 000 tonnes in product volume.
in the light of the dismissals at the sprider stores retail chain, the greek authorities will receive a financial contribution of eur 7.3 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund. the redundancies concerned a total of 761 employees. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers who are suffering from the consequences of structural changes in the pattern of world trade. the fund provides personalised measures for the reintegration of jobseekers into working life, such as vocational guidance or vocational training units. it is hoped that the funds used will help to provide long-term support for the reintegration of the unemployed employees of sprider stores into the labour market.
in writing. - the greek citizens are suffering enormously from the consequences of the global financial and economic crisis. solidarity is paramount in these difficult times. that is why i support the commission's proposal for eur 7.2 million to help re-employ the 761 former workers of the sprider stores ready-to-wear company and to help 505 young people to find a job.
in writing. - the association agreement with moldova should enable the latter to strengthen its socioeconomic development by establishing a free trade area and strengthening political dialogue. the strengthening of institutional reforms, respect for the rule of law and human rights must also result. all citizens will have to benefit from this agreement which will also contribute to regional stability.
in writing. - the association agreement with moldova should be supported as it should enable moldova to strengthen its socioeconomic development, in particular through the eventual creation of a free trade area and the strengthening of political dialogue. this development, which must be accompanied by the union, will also be an additional tool for stabilising the region.
in writing. by supporting this agreement, i am underlining the need for europeans to strengthen their relations with neighbouring countries. the agreement strengthens the political and economic foundations for closer cooperation in such important areas as the rapprochement of values, the strengthening of regional stability and peace, the consolidation of economic and trade relations and cooperation in the field of justice, freedom and security. in practical terms, this means, among other things, a gradual integration of moldova into the eu internal market (in selected areas) and ever closer cooperation in the fight against organised crime and international corruption.
in writing. - i voted for the deal. as regards the european union, the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement provides for the complete elimination of all import duties and the prohibition of export duties on all goods by the union. only trade in certain agricultural products, considered sensitive in the union, will be monitored. trade in a limited number of fruit and vegetables subject to entry prices into the union will be liberalised under the tariff quotas applicable to traditional trade. as regards moldova, immediate elimination of all import duties is foreseen for the majority of products. a phased liberalisation process is foreseen for a number of sensitive products. the other products will not be liberalised: they will continue to be subject to tariff quotas (poultrymeat and pigmeat, certain dairy products, processed meat products or sugar and related products). we must nevertheless stress that we must remain vigilant to ensure that citizens' rights are respected and that these trade agreements must not be trojan horses for changes in european standards.
in writing. - the european union and the international community must urge the various parties to work towards a long-term and lasting peace, in particular through the full implementation of the good friday agreement and subsequent agreements. in this respect, it is important to underline the importance of the assistance provided by the union through the peace programme in improving relations between communities and promoting economic and social development in northern ireland and the border region of ireland for the benefit of all.
in writing. the relaunch of the peace and reconciliation process in northern ireland is of paramount importance for the stability of this region, which has long been plagued by severe conflict. much progress has been made over the last decade, in particular thanks to the joint action of the european union and other international partners. the eu has a key role to play in breaking the deadlock, improving relations between communities and promoting economic and social development, notably through the peace and interreg programmes. the european parliament is ready to play this role.
in writing. - today, more than ever, we welcome with enthusiasm the resumption of the talks which we hope will lead to the establishment of a lasting peace. it is essential that the parties work constructively and with the will to succeed in order to remove all existing obstacles. since the late 1980s, northern ireland has received financial support from the union. the peace programme has funded a wide range of projects that have built trust and helped shape more positive visions of the future for citizens. in addition, the various projects financed under peace helped to foster an environment in which political agreements had a reasonable chance of success. the financial allocation to the peace programme for the period 2014-2020 shall be eur 150 million. let us continue to encourage programmes such as the peace programme which has helped to reconcile communities so that other regions can be inspired by it.
in writing. - the sovereignty of the republic of cyprus must be fully respected, as must international maritime law. this type of situation, which could have a negative impact on turkey's relations with the eu, must be avoided. the socialist and democratic group reiterated its strong support both for the enlargement negotiations with turkey and for the continuation of the talks leading to the reunification of cyprus. the discovery of natural gas reserves could also be socially, politically and economically beneficial to both communities in cyprus and to the region as a whole, which needs stability above all.
in writing. i welcome the resolution adopted by the european parliament calling on turkey to put an immediate end to its provocations against the republic of cyprus. turkey has repeatedly invaded cyprus' territorial waters, violating the exclusive economic zone of the country, for the sole purpose of exploring the seabed. these tensions highlight the economic, political and geostrategic importance of the new energy situation (the discovery of mainly gas deposits) in the eastern mediterranean. europe, worried about its energy dependence on russia since the ukraine crisis and the nabucco gas pipeline project, sees gas from the eastern mediterranean as an attractive alternative resource. in the face of isolation, ankara has every interest in stopping its provocations, respecting international and european standards and engaging, together with nicosia, in an open and constructive dialogue.
in writing. - i'm worried about the situation. in early october, turkey warned that it would send a seismic vessel not far from an area where a consortium commissioned by cyprus is conducting exploration for possible gas deposits. this announcement was enough to push nicosia to withdraw from the difficult peace negotiations aimed at reunifying the island. that's how sensitive the subject is. cyprus has been striving to become a regional gas hub since the discovery three years ago of deposits that could help the country emerge from a crisis that forced it to accept a €10 billion european bailout, with draconian conditions attached. turkey opposes the exploitation of gas fields by the greek cypriot government before any peace agreement. but nicosia believes that the turkish ships are violating its sovereignty, and accuses ankara of taking advantage of its indispensable role in the international coalition against the islamic state organization to behave, according to cyprus, in a "provocative" way.
in writing. - the fighting that continues in south sudan despite the peace agreement signed a few days ago, the resurgence of violence, including against ngos, are only aggravating the dramatic humanitarian crisis in the country. the international community must spare no effort to provide direct aid to the population and to promote a democratic transition. ngos must be respected and protected in their essential role in food and humanitarian aid.
in writing. we can only welcome the recent ceasefire between government and opposition forces in south sudan. president kiir and opposition leader riek machar have committed to reaching an agreement on an inclusive power-sharing agreement within 15 days. we must support them on the path to lasting peace. since the conflict began in december 2013, tens of thousands of people, including many civilians, have lost their lives and more than 1.8 million men, women and children have fled their homes. there are many reports of human rights violations, including sexual violence on an alarming scale. only a genuinely inclusive, free and transparent dialogue will address the root causes of the crises that routinely afflict the country, including poverty.
in writing. - this text expresses our concern about a desperate situation. the people of south sudan, ravaged by eleven months of civil war, are enduring "indescribable violence and abuse" and are facing the threat of famine, a non-governmental organization said in a report on monday. the level of violence in the country, where inter-ethnic massacres and gang rapes have become commonplace, now exceeds the suffering suffered during the decades of independence struggle against khartoum, the irc notes. south sudan, which declared independence in july 2011, has been mired in civil war since december 2013, when president salva kiir accused former vice president riek machar, who was ousted months earlier, of plotting a coup. the fighting quickly escalated into an ethnic conflict kiir's dinka against machar's nuer marked by large-scale atrocities and massacres by both sides.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, personally i think that we should not waste too many words on this motion. why? because i think that everybody can feel, and even the spokesmen of the ecr can feel, that it is nothing more than a little game played by the two groups – the efdd of mr farage and the group of ms le pen (ni). i understand this game; it is a game that is normal in politics, i should say, based on what i call a perverted logic. the logic of this motion is perverted because what they want is that we should make a judgement on ‘lux leaks’ before the investigations by the commission and by parliament; and that is not serious at all. to come forward now with a motion at a time when we are asking the commission to look into the matter and when we are actually about to set up a parliamentary committee - what is this nonsense, to start with a motion of censure before we have even started to investigate? for me, the only interesting thing about this motion is not its content; it is the fact that, finally, mr farage and ms le pen are now finally outing their hidden relationship. that is the most important thing about this motion: their hidden relationship; the fact that they are actually following the same populist strategy, contrary to what mr farage said to his voters in britain. indeed it is proof of the fact that ukip is hideous, racist, xenophobic and islamophobic. those are not my words; they are the words of the founder of ukip, mr alan sked himself. so, in my opinion, your group – and i say that to mr zanni – is in fact not at all interested in clarifying or resolving international tax avoidance; and i find it very strange that mr zanni is pointing the finger at us. put your own house in order, mr zanni, because one of the big specialists in all this is mr farage. it is he who has an off-shore tax team in the isle of man. so put your own house in order. i should in fact say the same thing to ms le pen, because in a few minutes we shall have the fury of ms le pen coming over this house again. in fact, she borrows money from dodgy russian banks to finance her political actions. nobody else does that. so i believe that in reality – and mr weber has already indicated that he has said really true things – she and you, mr farage, are against europe, and it is not in this way that we shall have more european cooperation. my conclusion is very simple: let us get back to work and let us vote against this stupid motion. (applause)
in writing. i have chosen not to support the motion of no confidence in the new european commission because i want to judge it first of all on its concrete actions and not on the past record of its members. however, the luxleaks case further demonstrates the need to harmonise tax policy within the eu in order to eradicate tax havens. and it would be naive to believe that luxembourg has a monopoly on questionable financial practices. any tax engineering, however legal, is problematic because it is a form of theft at the expense of those who behave honestly. it is urgent to achieve full transparency on ruling operations. the commission investigates alleged illegal state aid and must be given the necessary latitude to shed light on these issues. today, europe must take up this matter head on and insert the european response into the vast global movement against tax optimisation and tax evasion. the european commission has announced that it will make tax and social justice its main priority. i'll see to it that you do. jean-claude, there are many challenges at work!
mr president, with the millennium development goals being concluded at the end of 2015, world leaders have made a commitment: they have called for a plan, an implementation programme to tackle the inequalities that are too often so great in this world. of course, not all of the millennium development goals have been achieved. it's already 2014 and many of them have not been reached. however, progress has been made, and we must continue to make efforts. the post-2015 programming will cover many themes, and i will focus only on the issue of equality between men and women. in the past, four of the eight objectives were concerned with this question, which means that we must continue to pay attention to it. the committee on women's rights and gender equality has asked for three main objectives to be included: the first is access to education for young girls, not only access to primary education but also access to secondary education; the second is access to health and universal access to sexual and reproductive rights. the third is the fight against all forms of violence: violence such as genital mutilation and rape as a weapon of war, but also the violence that european women suffer on a daily basis, even today. sustainable development for our planet will not happen in a world where half of humanity still suffers from gross inequalities.
mr president, madam commissioner, i can of course only support the request for clarification made by my colleague the rapporteur on this crucial subject for the socioeconomic development of the european union. the added value of the structural funds is no longer to be demonstrated for the regions of our member states. their actions make it possible to take profound action to enable europe to remain competitive on the world stage. they have thus created several thousand sustainable jobs, particularly in regions considered to be lagging behind in development. i can give you an example of my own home town of farciennes, belgium. thanks to the contribution of the european structural funds, my municipality has been able to develop a major strategic economic project which will create more than 3 000 jobs. the ecopole, as it is called, is a unique economic activity park in europe focused on sustainable development techniques. this is a 75 million euro investment on a 300 hectare wasteland, which would undoubtedly not have been possible without the contribution of the european structural funds. i could also tell you about the charleroi airport which is used by many members of the european parliament. in 2013, it was ranked the third best friendly airport in the world. its implementation, with european support, has created over 2 000 jobs. you have heard, madam commissioner, i think that today i really want to urge the european commission to take a position on the various operational programmes submitted by the member states and i think that we need concrete answers on the delays, the timetable for future projects, the pace of financing, arrears and the rate available and the possible link with the 300 billion plan.
madam president, i can assure you that the socialists and the democrats are not sleeping any later than the others. matteo renzi was in a group meeting with us, they're all coming in almost in one block. i wanted to reassure you, madam president.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the council is asking for urgency to allow certain member states to spread out payments to the union budget which they should have made before 1 december under the rules they have set themselves. the urgent need today, ladies and gentlemen, is not to grant payment facilities to certain member states, even though the pill may be bitter for some. the urgent need today is to approve a union budget for 2015 that will enable the union to function properly and to honour the commitments and priorities it has set. the urgent need today is to approve the 2014 amending budgets, a necessary step to stabilise, i say stabilise and not reduce, the amount of unpaid invoices which, without this, will reach 30 billion euros by the end of this year. the urgent need today is to agree on a multiannual plan for the gradual settlement of arrears in order to avoid the union budget being suffocated in the future, either by a radical reduction in commitment appropriations, as some would like, or by unbearable delays in the settlement of invoices. the urgency requested by the council is not justified in any way. voting for urgency would be giving the council a bonus for having paid more attention to its internal balances than to the union's credibility in honouring its commitments.
member of the commission. - the commission is currently considering whether and how the 2020 strategy and the european semester can be improved. the time is ripe for that! i think this debate has shown that. you can count on me and the commission. we believe that the strategies must serve the people, that we must improve the results to meet the expectations of the people if we are to regain the confidence of the people. there are many success factors here, factors that we can and must work on to do better, and they all come down to the fact that we must ensure more investment. i am therefore glad that we will hear from president juncker tomorrow what the investment plan he has developed will look like, because in the end it is about more investment for more growth, for quality jobs. i will continue to work to ensure that employment and social considerations are given a proper and better place in the european economic governance framework and i think that also responds to what the members of this house are asking and expecting. so, as i said, the strategy is being evaluated now. in the spring the commission will come forward with the conclusions and with proposals. this debate will certainly inspire us to move in the right direction and i thank you very much for your attention. i am sorry that i cannot answer all the questions put by all the members, but as you have heard, the time is too short. thank you for your input, we'll take it into account.
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i want to say to the members who have spoken that your concerns are our concerns. you have said it, of course, the ball is much more in the council's court and this time we want to play it much better. the fundamental point you have raised is the fight against social inequalities. it is a key point, which is why we believe that the social fund and the structural funds must increasingly be the real financial pillars of this new social dimension which we want to develop in the europe 2020 strategy. a strategy which the presidency also wants to make greener, more ecological. that's a topic you've raised. i remind you that we opened our presidency semester by bringing together, for the first time, the ministers of the environment and the ministers of labour, because we believe that green jobs are what has been missing so far in the europe 2020 strategy and we are convinced that by integrating these processes much more we will be more effective and we can achieve better results of which we can be much more satisfied than we are today in the light of what we have not been able to do.
in writing. in the context of the eu2020 strategy, we have committed to helping at least 75% of all europeans aged 20-64 to find a job by 2020, reducing the number of early school leavers to below 10% and lifting at least 20 million europeans out of poverty. we must ensure that these objectives are effectively achieved. we can do this by investing much more in our young people, by ensuring that they are able to work. this can be done, inter alia, through the youth guarantee scheme, but also by setting specific objectives for youth employment in the context of the review of the eu 2020 strategy. the investment programme to combat unemployment announced by commission president juncker can play an important role in maintaining and creating jobs. we also need to devote more resources to the fight against poverty. today, about 1 in 4 eu citizens live at risk of poverty and social exclusion. we can't just stand by and take this. we need to give people opportunities, give them a future.
in writing. - the present document aims to stimulate investment in the railway sector in the eu by strengthening the rights of creditors to secure their loans. this is welcome, as this objective coincides with the objectives of the so-called fourth railway package of the european union.
in writing. - this proposal is linked to the fourth railway package which encourages more innovation and increased investment in the union's rail system. i voted in favour of this protocol because it will facilitate the offer of financing for railway rolling stock. i believe that this will not only encourage capital investment in the railway sector but also help to create a genuine market for the rental of mobile equipment in europe.
in writing. the convention, including its protocols, aims to address the problem of the establishment of secure and easily enforceable rights in respect of property which, by its nature (e.g. railway rolling stock), has no fixed location. the protocol, by offering a better international guarantee to creditors investing in the railway sector - in particular by completing the european vehicle registration number system and allowing 24-hour registration and search - will eventually create a genuine rental market for mobile equipment equipment in europe.
in writing. according to the proposal, the objective of the rail protocol is to facilitate the offer of financing for high value railway rolling stock by creating a strong international guarantee for creditors, whether credit sellers or credit providers for such sales. this should not only encourage capital investment in the railway sector but also contribute to the creation of a genuine market for the rental of mobile equipment in europe.
in writing. - the hague convention on jurisdictional arrangements of 30 june 2005 is an agreement concluded within the framework of the hague conference on private international law on exclusive jurisdictional agreements in civil or commercial matters. the convention contains provisions on the limitation of its scope, the establishment of jurisdictional arrangements, jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement and the regulation of procedural matters. the european union has already taken up this private law issue by revising the brussels i regulation. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the acquis in the field of competition policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the acquis in the field of competition policy. the convention should therefore be approved.
in writing. - the convention applies in international situations to exclusive choice of court agreements concluded in civil or commercial matters. it seems to me that it is essential at the present time to have a standardisation of international contracts in order to promote trade between states. this will provide greater consistency and legal certainty for exclusive international agreements.
in writing. - this proposal for a council decision excludes from the scope of the convention insurance contracts concluded by consumers in order to prevent them from accepting a choice-of-court clause without their knowledge. the declaration annexed to the draft decision formalises this exemption and also leaves a margin of discretion for large commercial insurance and reinsurance contracts. a review declaration allows for a further analysis of this reservation in the future. i therefore voted in favour of the text.
in the case of the finnish company stx finland, which is active in shipbuilding, a total of 577 workers have been made redundant. in the finnish region of rauma, the redundancies have led to an increase in the unemployment rate of over 2%. finland had justified its request for the european globalisation adjustment fund by stating that the global shipping industry had changed dramatically in recent years and that the eu's market share in this sector had decreased sharply. in particular, shipbuilders from asian countries have an advantage over european shipbuilders due to the low labour costs. the country will receive eur 1 426 800 from the fund. the fund will provide personalised services for reintegration into the labour market, including coaching, placement, training, retraining and expert services.
in writing. - the shipbuilding sector in finland is a national employment generator. unfortunately, the shipbuilding industry is facing increased competition from asian countries where labour is cheap. the resulting decline in production volume was fatal for the finnish company rauma. following this catastrophe for the local economy, great solidarity is needed with the 565 workers laid off. i therefore support the mobilisation of eur 1 426 800 from the egf to enable the former rauma workers to return to work.
in writing. i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund for finland, which was requested by the finnish authorities following the dismissal of 577 workers from stx finland oy, a shipping company, in may last year. the global shipping industry has changed dramatically in recent years: the european union's market share in shipbuilding reached only 5% in the first three quarters of 2013 compared to 13% in 2007, while the combined market share of china, south korea and japan increased from 77% in 2007 to ... 86% in the first three quarters of 2013. the considerable expansion of asia in the shipbuilding market, the decline in orders due to the economic crisis, has led to a global overcapacity in the european sector, which is causing increased competition to the detriment of workers. we have to help them.
in writing. i voted in favour of this aid. as a reminder, on 14 october 2014, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of finland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by stx finland oy in may 2014, supplemented by additional information, the latest of which was received on 22 july 2014. the commission concluded, having regard to all the relevant provisions of the egf regulation, that the application fulfilled the conditions for the granting of financial contributions from the egf. the finnish authorities argue that the global shipping industry has changed dramatically in recent years and that in this global context the european union's market share has fallen. the union market share in shipbuilding, calculated on the basis of production volume, reached 5% in the first three quarters of 2013, compared to 13% in 2007. by comparison, the combined market share of china, south korea and japan was 86% in the first three quarters of 2013, compared to 77% in 2007.
in writing. in a region where the agri-food sector is a major employer, the position of a company such as gad is of crucial importance because of the serious consequences it can have. it is therefore essential to pay particular attention to the situation of the 760 workers made redundant as a result of the increase in pigmeat prices caused by the global financial and economic crisis. therefore, the mobilisation of eur 918 000 by the egf to help reintegrate these 760 people into the labour market seems to me to be fully justified.
in writing. i welcome the decision taken by the european parliament to provide eur 918 000 of assistance to the 760 redundant employees of the french company gad through the european globalisation adjustment fund. gad, a company active in the slaughter and processing of meat, has been hit hard by the global economic and financial crisis and the decline in meat consumption. the financial difficulties of gad are thus directly linked to a major change in the structure of world trade. that is why we felt it was essential to help the workers in this company through the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. i supported the vote on this report which seeks to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund in favour of the 744 workers of the french agri-food company gad who were made redundant in june 2014. the company has suffered serious difficulties, including unfair competition within the internal market from companies which have abused the directive on the posting of workers, and i repeat my request that this directive be revised as soon as possible.
in writing. - i voted for this aid. as a reminder, on 24 october 2014, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of france to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by gad, a simplified public limited company active in the economic sector classified in nace rev. 2 division 10 (food industries), as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. the french authorities argue that the global financial and economic crisis has led to a decline in the consumption of pigmeat in europe, which in turn has led to a decrease in pigmeat production and in slaughterhouses such as gad. while pigmeat consumption in 2007 was still 43 kg per year per capita, it was only 39 kg per year in 2013. this decline in consumption, due to the global financial and economic crisis, affected other types of meat, but was particularly severe for pigmeat, whose price had increased faster than that of other meats, especially beef.
in writing. - on 2 december 2010, the council adopted a decision and a negotiating directive authorising the commission to open negotiations, on behalf of the eu, on an agreement with canada on the transfer and processing of passenger name records in the context of the fight against terrorism. the court of justice has ruled that the retention of personal data is not subject to the obligation to provide information to the public. the purpose of the agreement is to define the conditions under which passenger data records may be transmitted and used and how data should be protected. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the agreement is not applied to the territory of the member states. that is why i have rejected this motion for a resolution.
in writing. the council has requested the european parliament's consent to the agreement on the processing of pnr data signed with canada on 25 june 2014. on 30 september 2013, the european data protection supervisor delivered an opinion on the agreement questioning the necessity and proportionality of pnr systems and bulk transfers to third countries, as well as the choice of legal basis. on 8 april 2014, the court of justice declared the data retention directive invalid. it was therefore appropriate to refer the matter to the court of justice as to whether the draft agreement with canada is compatible with the provisions of the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights as regards the right of individuals to the protection of personal data.
in writing. - the n-va is committed to privacy and data protection. at the same time, we recognise the importance of international pnr (passenger name records) agreements for the protection of the rights and safety of eu citizens, in particular in the fight against trafficking in human beings, child exploitation, organised crime, drug trafficking, terrorism, increasing radicalisation and the current challenge of foreign fighters. we therefore want to give an explicit reason for our support for the speedy implementation of the new eu-canada pnr agreement. first, data from european citizens are currently exchanged under the old framework agreement with canada (2006) which is considerably less stringent. the new agreement includes more rights for citizens, better data retention rules and increased independent monitoring. additional advice to the court would lead to a significant delay, which would prolong the duration of the less stringent rules and reduce the protection of eu citizens. secondly, it is important that the eu works on clear european rules for data exchange with third countries with a better protection of eu citizens as a result.
in writing. in the name of the fight against terrorism, an agreement has been agreed between the european union and canada on the use of passenger name record (pnr) data. this data, which includes various information such as name, address, passport and credit card numbers, routes and travel agency, is provided by passengers and collected by airlines. however, before it can enter into force, it must first be approved by the european parliament. in voting in favour of the request for an opinion of the court of justice, we make it a precondition that the agreement be compatible with the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights and thus reiterate the importance of ensuring a balanced approach between the need to ensure the security of our citizens and their right to privacy and the protection of their data. as a liberal i am committed to finding a middle ground between these two values.
in writing. with this vote, parliament decided to refer the agreement on the transfer of european air passenger data to canada (the 'pnr' agreement) to the court of justice of the european union. doubts were raised about: 1) the legal basis of this agreement and its necessity, as the european commission had not demonstrated the need for the massive collection and storage of data; 2) proportionality (to the extent that the five-year retention period appears to be random and not based on precise evidence); the processing of pnr data is not subject to the provisions of this regulation and the processing of pnr data is not subject to the provisions of this regulation. the european parliament will therefore ask the court about the legality of mass data transfers to third countries and its compliance with european law before voting on this agreement signed last june between the european union and ottawa.
in writing. - we consider that there is legal uncertainty as to whether the draft agreement is compatible with the provisions of the treaties (article 16) and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union (articles 7 and 8 and article 52 (1)) as regards the right of individuals to the protection of personal data. i also question the choice of the legal basis, namely article 82 (1) (d) and article 87 (2) (a) of the feu treaty (police and judicial cooperation), rather than article 16 of the feu treaty (data protection); i therefore support the decision to refer the agreement to the court of justice for an opinion on its compatibility with the treaties.
in writing. - as the united nations millennium declaration of 2000, which sets the goal of significantly reducing world poverty, expires next year, a new declaration on global development goals for the period after 2015 is currently being drawn up. a systematic approach is still needed to successfully combat poverty. in this context, the european parliament urges member states in this resolution, inter alia, to honour their commitment to spend at least 0.7% of their gni, including at least 0.2% of gni for the least developed and other particularly vulnerable countries, on official development assistance. it is also necessary for the eu to present a confident and coherent position on the setting of clear targets for development aid.
in writing. - in 2000, the united nations adopted the millennium declaration. the targets set by the declaration have led to some improvements, including the reduction of extreme poverty by half. however, most of the objectives have not been achieved. i voted in favour of a post-2015 programme so that we can continue our developmental fight. the programme focuses on 11 priority areas to take concrete action on the challenges of tomorrow.
in writing. we are only a few months away from the deadline for the millennium development goals (mdgs) adopted by the united nations in 2000. despite progress in the eight priority areas of action, there is still a long way to go and many challenges to be met: human rights violations, violence against women, conflict, terrorism, climate change, food insecurity, lack of access to clean water, etc. it is therefore essential to launch a thorough reflection on the post-2015 development framework. as the largest donor of official development assistance, the european union must take the lead in driving forward the adoption of an ambitious post-2015 development agenda. by voting in favour of this report, we are setting the foundations for the main directions of the european union's strategy in the ongoing negotiations for the definition of the post-2015 framework.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of this resolution (541 votes in favour, 96 against and 29 abstentions) which clearly expresses the european parliament's wishes for the position to be taken by the european union in the new international negotiations on the millennium development goals to be held next year. the resolution also calls for the eu to take a more active role in the fight against poverty and inequality, and for the eu to work towards making the human rights approach and the right to development a fundamental concept. the resolution also calls on the european commission to make the elimination of inequalities in access to health and education a priority and calls on the union to support its autonomous objective of equality between women and men. finally, it called on the member states to respect their commitment to allocate at least 0.7% of their gni to official development assistance.
in writing. we continue our work towards the adoption of an ambitious post-2015 development agenda. with this report, we want to contribute to the definition of a coherent and firm union position, which the council will adopt in december 2014. the council conclusions should set out the principles and indicate the main directions of the union's negotiating strategy.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's policy on the environment is not distorted. the aim of this strategy is, inter alia, to improve the eu's competitiveness and to strengthen social and employment policies. the agenda included specific objectives relating to education, employment and poverty reduction. the study, now four years in the making, has produced a number of negative results. in terms of employment and poverty, member states are moving away from the eu 2020 targets rather than towards them. we therefore urge parliament to make these objectives binding and to review them in the context of the european semester. the european commission and the member states must in future insist much more strongly on the pursuit of the employment and social policy objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. the latest eurostat statistics are unrelenting: almost 125 million europeans are or are at risk of falling into poverty at any moment. the luxleaks case is just as relentless: the tax injustice is unbearable. the unemployment rate is still far too high. the european project cannot be built on such social, human and fiscal injustices. there is no other way but to take this into account in the europe 2020 strategy. we must reduce poverty and unemployment by imposing big business. the too timid recovery plan presented by jean-claude juncker must be amplified, in particular by developing public investment. but we must also firmly safeguard the social acquis. the recovery must not be at the expense of the workers. i will be extremely vigilant in this respect in the application of the refit programme and its respect for the rights to health and safety of workers enshrined in the european charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. in the face of the economic and financial crisis, we need to ensure a balanced approach, where economic reforms, fiscal responsibility and solidarity converge. despite the economic and financial obstacles, it is essential that we maintain the europe 2020 goals as a guiding principle, particularly in the areas of employment, poverty reduction and education. the reforms to ensure the sustainability of our systems are basic but must be balanced by other measures to strengthen solidarity. i therefore welcome the desire to include more social criteria in the analysis of the economic situations of the member states. we need to move beyond the automation of certain decisions in order to develop a genuine framework for smart, sustainable, inclusive and job-creating growth. the new investment plan will play a key role.
in writing. - the europe 2020 strategy pursues two social objectives: to ensure that 75% of the eu's working population is employed and to reduce by 20 million the number of people affected or threatened by poverty and social exclusion by 2020. but in the face of the current bleak socioeconomic record (increasing poverty, growing inequality, record unemployment), both these goals will not be achieved. so it is the credibility of the strategy that is at stake here. and the european parliament had to discuss new avenues. that is why i voted for and supported a rebalancing of the strategy between financial and economic priorities and strong social priorities in order to favour social measures. that is why i also asked for joint meetings between the epsco and ecofin councils and voted in favour of the introduction of a social protection pillar which provides for an adequate minimum income system at european level in order to strengthen social convergence in the member states. finally, i voted for the social objectives to become binding, along with the economic and budgetary policy objectives in the framework of the stability and growth pact.
in writing. - i would draw your attention to the fact that this important attribution of powers for the transmission of confidential information to several authorities must be counterbalanced by the obligation on the receiving authorities to take all the necessary regulatory, administrative, technical and organisational measures to ensure the physical and logical protection of the confidential statistical information concerned. a similar obligation was introduced in 2009 in the basic act for members of the escb receiving confidential statistical information from the european statistical system authorities.
the rapporteur. - madam president, after what the chairman of our committee has said, i could be more succinct, but i would like to say to the council representative, mr zanetti, that despite all the efforts he has made, i am, both as a member of parliament and as rapporteur, disappointed and frankly dissatisfied. firstly, i am disappointed because my conviction is established - and it is not just my own but that of many members - that the council has spent much more time trying to settle problems between its members, following the 'mouth-to-mouth' - excuse the expression - given by mr cameron, as regards the rebalancing of the contributions of the individual member states, than trying to agree on a common position as regards the amending budgets for 2014 and 2015. i know that it is difficult for some member states to have to spend a large sum of money all at once, but we cannot understand and are deeply disappointed that the council has taken so much time to deal with its own problems rather than with the european union's budget for 2014 and 2015. i am also disappointed and displeased, mr president, to hear - i believe it was you who said it - that in the kind of game between parliament and the council, when one party is satisfied with something, the other party must also be satisfied with something else. we're not playing a game. there is no match between parliament and the council! we have an obligation to each other to agree on the best amending budgets for 2014 and on the quality of the 2015 budget. i therefore want to make it very clear what we have to do. firstly, we support the 2014 amending budgets proposed by the commission because we believe that this is an essential step to ensure the credibility of the 2015 budget, which otherwise will be totally burdened by previous debts. mr president, we want a realistic budget for 2015. you have reduced the appropriations for commitments, you have reduced the appropriations for payments by a further 2 billion, whereas this budget contains the lowest payment appropriations we have seen in recent years. we have also said, and we confirm, that we want parliament and the council to agree on a procedure, a mechanism or a plan for the gradual clearance of arrears to avoid the commission's budget being suffocated in the future, either by the strangulation of commitments or by the fact that delays in payments become unbearable. we therefore confirm our willingness to sit down at the table, but, please, in a different spirit and with a different will from that which has prevailed so far on the council's side.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, today is the european day for the elimination of violence against women. it is true that if we look to our right or to our left, we are three people of whom at least one has been, has been or will be a victim of violence towards him, but i would say more. i'm going to have a hard time telling you today because if i look to my right and to my left, i don't see many men. but if women are victims of violence, then there are perpetrators. i thank the men who are with us. today we must send a message to the perpetrators of this violence, not only in terms of raising awareness but also in terms of sanctions and support. one in three women, that's appalling. for years, as parliamentarians, we have been fighting this battle and yet, unfortunately, the numbers are rising, certainly because this violence is not decreasing but fortunately because some countries have put in place mechanisms that finally allow women to leave the private sphere and go to file a complaint, to be heard by a doctor, to be defended by a lawyer, to win a case in the courts. what we are asking for today is to be able to act, because the facts and figures are there. there is no question of setting up commissions of experts or discussions. all the work has been done and today, madam commissioner, we must act. we ask that as soon as possible - and you have said this - this istanbul convention be ratified by the european commission, which could then put in place an action programme because it is not enough to ratify, it must actually be put into practice in each of the member states. there are no cultures, there are no differences, that justify the fact that in some countries we can protect women better than in others. we must ensure that there is a common european platform which at the same time raises awareness, trains, accompanies and protects the actors, but also allows the perpetrators to be punished properly. we are asking for a legislative framework to enable all this to be done, and we are asking for a european year against violence. commissioner, i hope you're getting this message.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, i'm sorry, but i'm really aggravated by what i just heard. i think that, as a member of parliament, you cannot accept the principle that the rape issue is a foreigners' issue.
madam president, commissioner, i am the third man in this debate. it is true that this is too little - you have pointed this out - and, moreover, several of us are displaying the white ribbon today, a symbol of this campaign against violence against women. the white ribbon is a campaign decided by men in canada 25 years ago, following a heinous crime on a tech campus where a deranged man murdered 14 young girls. i want to return to a fundamental subject, in this case the possibility of declaring a year dedicated to the fight against violence against women. i am addressing you, commissioner, because four years ago, with several colleagues, namely mrs barbara matera, who is still here, and mrs parkanová, of the alde group at the time, and mrs salisch, who was a member of the committee on budgets, we had a very difficult time. i propose to put a written statement back on the table - i know it is a symbolic work that can be done in this parliament - which i hope will gather a majority of signatures, so that you can consider whether it is appropriate to devote a year to the fight against violence against women.
for me, in the field of migration policy, the key words are not only trust but also coherence and coordination. at present, the available budget is divided into several budget lines and funds, each with its own purpose and administrative framework. the lack of a global vision and approach. a more streamlined and ambitious eu migration and asylum policy would provide a good alternative to dangerous crossings into europe and reduce the space for smugglers. we must also tackle the many causes of illegal migration in a fundamental way. my question is: what steps will the commission and the council take to achieve greater coherence and coordination in the field of migration policy, both internally and externally?
mr president, the new framework has been a long time coming, but we must nevertheless acknowledge that progress has been made. however, the challenge remains enormous. the figures were quoted: 11 people die at work every day and more than 8 000 people are seriously ill. this means that during my speech, eight workers will suffer serious accidents at work. it is a terrible human tragedy but it also has an impact on the economy, business and social security. i can applaud the will of this plan, but we cannot be satisfied with intentions, we need quantified and measurable objectives. the key word must be prevention, a permanent action involving all the actors and the social partners at all levels, this is crucial. we must also provide social inspectorates with human resources and training opportunities to be able to respond to the new risks associated with new working methods, new products and the extension of careers. the communication rightly mentions the importance of targeting small and mediumsized enterprises, which must be helped and supported. finally, i would like to emphasize this point: it is necessary to simplify the regulations, but we can never do so at the expense of the health and safety of the workers. their health and life cannot be put on a price.
we, the majority in power here today, are taking yet another step in the euro story which has long since gotten completely out of hand. we are giving the european central bank special powers again, which has systematically taken over powers that it did not have before. the pace at which powers are being transferred here in this house to technical and unelected eu institutions has reached an unprecedented speed and is increasingly being done with the knife to the throat, namely the compelling argument that the currency and thus the social stable economic field must be maintained. in your inverted world we, the critics and sceptics of the european union, are accused of wanting to impose the ideology of nationalism, but it is the other way around! we are against the euro because the single currency is a political delusion. you are the ideologically blinded eu elite, alienated from the people and the victims of your unity machine. we are not ideological but pragmatic when we say that a currency must reflect an economic reality.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to say to mr kamall that berlin airport is not still open either. but that is another issue, or – ok – maybe it is the same issue. i think it is a good thing that we have this proposal here today. the plan is to start on 1 june 2015 – that is the idea – then the fund can be launched. and it is good that you are not talking about millions, dear colleagues, because for five years in a row we have discussed growth here and talked about millions and project bonds. we are now, i think, really on track by talking about the real investment gap, because the investment gap is huge in europe: it is eur 700 billion. since the start of the crisis, investment stock in europe has fallen by 14%, while in the us it has been stable during this whole period. so it is a serious and crucial question. and we have three points to make on whether this plan can work. the first is that this investment plan, mr juncker, cannot be considered separately. i think that if you introduce legislation by the beginning of next year, you have to introduce legislation not only on this issue but also on the complementary important files that are necessary. the first is structural reforms in the member states. mr weber has given a number of examples: labour market, pension market and, for me, you can even talk about conditionality here. let us be honest: what is the purpose of funding investment projects in a number of countries if these countries do not make their own effort to carry out structural reforms? so for me, conditionality on structural reforms can be on the table by the beginning of next year if you come with your whole package. the second thing: i think that this programme needs to have a second part, which is opening our markets, liberalising our markets, unifying our markets in digital, in energy. there are a number of examples. it is nonsense, naturally, to make an energy interconnection between spain and france if at the same time there is regulation in france that does not allow the use of this energy coming from spain – then this energy grid interconnection does not mean anything. the same applies to the digital market. if we still continue to have 28 supervisors in the digital market, forget your broadband. first of all, create your single supervisor in the digital market, and then these investments can be productive. that is the way forward. and a third example on capital markets – lord hill is there – if we continue to have no real unification of the capital markets, lord hill, you cannot use your assets in britain to have an investment credit, for example, in italy. so that is the way forward. we need not only this investment plan and package; we need, at the same time, regulation unifying this market, otherwise it will lose on a big scale. my third point is on the functioning of the fund. let us be honest: i think that there is no room for manoeuvre to put public money in it. there is no public money. there are only public debts but no public money for the moment. so using a guarantee scheme is the right way to do it: you do not need capital for a guarantee scheme. you can create leverage, and i think that is not the most important thing for you now. i am thinking about the other side – the council. the eib is on board: you are on board because you are presenting the proposal. but these 28 member states have to be on board too, because if they come on board in this guarantee scheme, you can have a far higher guarantee scheme than the eur 21 billion that is on the table now. i would ask mr gozi and the italian presidency to raise this question at the next council meeting in december. is it not an obligation, dear colleagues for every member state to participate in such a guarantee scheme to launch investments in europe? so that has to be the message of the italian presidency. and the second thing, mr gozi: why not bring in tax exemption? all the member states can help to make it a huge success if, for example, for once, member states did not impose a tax on the balance of these funds. that could create an enormous boost in the fund, because ordinary citizens could also be interested in taking out a bond in this fund, not only institutional investors. what do you receive for your money today? if you have some money in your bank, maybe nothing at all, because interest rates are so low. if this fund could have a return of 2% with no taxation by the member states on it, then it could be a big success. and finally, let us not simply fulfil the wish list of the member states. it is up to the european commission to make the choice of the projects, twinned with the eib so they are not brothers in crime but brothers in investment. (applause)
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr juncker, i must congratulate you because after less than a month you have presented the beginning, at any rate, of what is beginning to look like an investment plan. so you want to keep your promise, and that's all to your credit. i wanted to say that we share your diagnosis that europe is suffering from a lack of investment, but we must know what we mean by investment. we do not think that these are investments in the sense of those who, for a few days, a few hours or a few microseconds, gamble with money and call themselves "investors". we also do not think that investment is the same as fuelling property bubbles or asset bubbles, as we see in europe all the time today. we also do not think that investing means pouring billions into pouring concrete to build a nuclear power station in flamanville, an airport that will serve no one in notre-dame-des-landes, a dam in sivens or to completely concrete the spanish coast or the irish capital and, finally, to satisfy either a kind of political or technological pride or, simply, to make profits without creating values. we believe, however, that the only worthwhile investment is the financial, material and human investment that is put at the service of a cause, the cause that pope francis reminded us of yesterday, that of human dignity. it is therefore about the ecological transformation of our infrastructure, the restoration of our natural resources, social cohesion, education, training and research. this is the direction that investment in europe should take, and your plan, by its aims, seems to be in line with a number of these objectives. however, in terms of volume, it is hard to believe that the reallocation of the eur 21 billion already committed, already on the table, will be able, by itself, to leverage investments of eur 315 billion. i remember the eib boss saying to us: 'a leverage ratio of 15 seems unlikely to us.' i would also like to point out that this is money we are taking from existing programmes. i think that it is a bit like depriving paul to spoil peter, and i am not sure that we are doing much to advance the schmilblick. finally, the plan is designed in principle to ensure that the public sector covers the initial investment losses, the majority of which would be provided by the private sector. socialisation of losses, privatisation of profits, does that ring any bells? i would therefore like to say that this plan is a good effort, a good attempt, and if there is any way to improve it, we will contribute to it in a constructive spirit. the greens have always wanted to contribute to the building, but i would like to point out some measures which we seem to be lacking and which would be a useful complement to this plan. first order of business, close down the casino. you know, investors always make their decisions by comparison. as long as an investor can go to the casino and make easy money with the government guarantee without risk, he will always prefer to go to the casino rather than invest in the real world. so there's still a lot of work to be done to shut down the casino economy. things have been done, but when the european central bank puts €1 trillion at the disposal of companies and of that €1 trillion, 50 goes into the real economy and, therefore, 950 goes into bubbles, i'm sorry but investors still prefer the casino. the second measure is the link with another debate we have: the fight against tax evasion and tax evasion. mr juncker, 21 billion is what a few multinationals would have to pay if they paid the same tax rate as smes in europe. so we need to mobilize that money. the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion is an integral part of your investment plan; she should be. finally, we must review our taxation. we continue to subsidize fossil fuels by tens of billions in europe every year. we say that we must redirect these subsidies towards subsidies for useful investment which will enable us to make the ecological transition and free europe from a daily bill of one billion euros for vladimir putin and the arab sheiks. these are the complementary measures we will propose to your plan.
i do not think i am exaggerating, mr juncker, if i call the issue of your package for jobs, growth and investment here and now a farce. the package is a jumbled mess of crumbs huddled together. in addition, a shameful recycling spectacle, with new labels being affixed to jars of money which were apparently lying uselessly in the aisles here, and on top of all that, a dossier of leverage, a real leverage fund, a total of 315 billion worth of futile water jugs, if you spread it over 28 member states, turns out to be a tenth of it. hocus-pocus, abracadabra, the great wizard juncker is begging us for fake money. do you know, mr juncker, what your biggest problem will be after today? i will tell you, after you had to cling to your seat because of an unprecedented scandal, your mandate as president of the european commission was already irreversibly tarnished. we must also, from today onwards, accuse you of not hesitating to fool us all for months on end in such an important matter. your biggest problem from today, now and until we get you out of here, is your credibility? egredere, disappear and send us someone we can at least believe and trust!
in writing. the recovery plan presented by jean-claude juncker is a first step that lacks ambition and raises questions above all. the criteria for the project selection procedure remain unclear. the commission has not provided figures on the impact of the projects in terms of job creation and social investment. once again, public levers are needed to boost the agility of the private sector. i would also like to recall the recent failure of the tltro implemented by the ecb. the private sector must now take its responsibilities under the plan. there is no doubt that public investment will also be necessary for the european recovery via the member states' participation in the fund. and the announced flexibility in the accounting of these investments in the calculation of the debt will have to be implemented. during this presentation, i also read with interest the commission's recommendation that belgium "focus more on public investment" as the european accounting standards sec2010 increasingly restrict investment capacity, especially of municipalities.
in writing. having exchanged austerity for investment, we are taking a step in the right direction but far from the giant leap we are entitled to expect. we will not be allies of the commission if it proposes only smoke screens. investing, and investing well: it is essential! if europe remains timid, it will lose any chance of prosperity and of a revival of european employment. we will be there to remind president juncker incessantly that europe must have ambition, that no mistake is allowed and that a fairer europe is not an option but an imperative. many observers question this multiplying effect of 15 which you take for granted, mr juncker. even in the fattening season, we've never seen such a leverage effect, it's really amazing. i hope it's not the pope's visit yesterday that makes you think that "bread multiplication" or "financial miracles" are easy things to do.
in writing. after years of the european commission imposing strict austerity policies on the member states, i am pleased that the new commission has recognised that investment is needed to lift europe out of the crisis. hard savings alone won't do it. this investment plan is therefore a break with the past and is therefore welcome. however, the plan is not ambitious enough. it should have gone much further, both in terms of the amount to be invested, the origin of those funds and the priorities to be set. the amount of money made available to enable public investment is limited and is, moreover, mainly a reorientation of existing budget lines. that's disappointing. the proposed leverage effects also appear to be unrealistic. but i also think that the plan should be more ambitious in terms of priorities. to prepare the european union for the future, a radical choice must be made for the transition to a sustainable economy. the union's macro-financial assistance shall be implemented in accordance with the union's macro-financial assistance programmes. with the vague priorities set out in the investment plan, this sustainable transition will not be initiated.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his report, which is a very good one. it looks like, if we look at the calculations of the past centuries, that 2014 is going to be the hottest year on record globally. and that may be an anecdote to some, but it's an important fact in addition to the scientific facts that we know: climate change is happening, the effects are already building up. in this context, the 20th climate conference in lima is important. i want to be optimistic. optimism is a moral duty, also on this important subject. international things are happening, the us-china agreement, there is a paragraph in the g20 conclusions, so there are also global initiatives. this should give us the energy to take on our own responsibility in a lasting way. i was not very happy with the council's conclusions, i thought they were too unambitious. we can correct that in parliament, we have made important commitments in this parliament at the beginning of this year. i repeat them again: 40% for greenhouse gas emissions, 40% for energy efficiency, 30% for renewable energy. let us confirm this in the vote and then go to lima with that strong commitment and then make a good agreement in paris.
the investment plan of the juncker commission which we have discussed here this morning is perfectly compatible with what we are all advocating here, such as energy efficiency, renewable energy and also the limitation of harmful emissions. we must do two things in the short term: first, and this is very topical, is the reform of our emissions trading system. the first step towards this - and you agree with us, commissioner - is the introduction of a market stability reform mechanism. that is the way to prevent the carbon price from collapsing further and indeed the whole ets system from collapsing. we are counting on broad support in this house to achieve this in the coming weeks and months and, of course, we are counting on support in the council to do so. secondly, we need a forward-looking, smart strategy for our energy-intensive industry. we must reward investment in energy efficiency and also investment in low emissions by giving incentives. with such a balanced package, both the ets reform and the positive measures for energy-intensive industry, we can secure and sustain our industrial ambitions and at the same time go to the crucial summits in lima and paris with an ambitious climate package.
in writing. - the purpose of this text is to allow the european central bank to use confidential statistical data in the context of its new tasks in the field of banking supervision, in a similar way to the use of confidential statistical data by national central banks. this is to reduce the reporting burden, as the same data need only be collected once.
in writing. - the single supervisory mechanism (ssm) has become operational. this mechanism will confer new powers on the european central bank in the context of the supervision of banks in the euro area. the financial crisis has shown that stricter supervision of the financial market is indispensable. for market surveillance to be effective, transparency is essential. information must reach the market and be correctly interpreted by the players. to do this, they must be used as a basis for decision-making. the ecb needs clear and unambiguous powers to impose sanctions. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. firstly, the administrative penalties must be published in general terms and without delay. secondly, there must be clarity as to who is ultimately responsible for initiating infringement proceedings. thirdly, the limitation periods should not start from the date on which the infringement occurred but from the date on which the decision to initiate infringement proceedings was taken.
in writing. i am firmly convinced that we must step up our efforts to ensure the proper functioning of the market surveillance system. this includes enhancing the transparency of the financial sector. we therefore consider it necessary that the ecb publish its sanctions decisions immediately, unless this is detrimental to the stability of the system. we also want to establish closer cooperation by setting up a series of closed-door meetings with the chairman and vice-chairmen of the committee concerned. finally, in order to avoid any overlap between the ecb and the national banks, we have sought to further define their respective responsibilities.
in writing. - it is widely accepted that the lack of credibility of regulation has contributed to the current crisis, with its implementation apparently suffering from major failures. it is common for financial matters to be governed by the "market discipline". however, transparency is equally important to ensure the proper functioning of the market surveillance system. this means that the necessary information must not only be made available, but must actually reach the markets and be otherwise well interpreted by participants and used in their decision-making process. therefore, transparency on the quality of banks' assets is not sufficient to establish the credibility of the ssm. financial markets and all relevant participants also need to be assured that in future the supervisory authority will have the power to sanction banks that do not comply with the rules. this implies that the ecb has clear and unequivocal authority to impose sanctions.
in writing. - the united nations climate conference in lima in early december 2014 is to prepare key objectives for the 2015 world climate conference in paris. a global and binding agreement on climate action was to be concluded in paris next year. the priority objective in this context is to limit global warming to less than two degrees. clear targets for reducing greenhouse gases by 2050 should, among other things, help the economy - and in particular energy-intensive businesses - to adjust to the limit values in the long term. in this resolution, parliament also reminds member states of their commitment to provide usd 100 billion annually for the global climate fund by 2020. this resolution is welcome, as we need clear, comprehensible and reliable global targets to take effective action on climate change. the eu must take a leading role in this area in the world.
in writing. climate change is an unprecedented threat to the future of our planet. in developing countries, climate change has already made several thousand "refugees" and caused recurrent food crises, internal tensions and even conflict. small island states and coastal towns are more exposed than ever to the dual threat of sea level rise and storms. global action is a moral duty to our children and grandchildren. the annual climate conference (cop20) in lima next month is a decisive step. it will be an opportunity for the european union to hold international partners and member states to account and to set the stage for cop21, where a binding global climate agreement should be adopted. europe must position itself as a leader in the fight against climate change and in defending the interests of developing countries. it has a role to play in ensuring that cop20 and cop21 achieve adequate results.
in writing. - the next un climate change conference will be held in lima, peru from 1 to 12 december 2014. at that meeting, i voted in favour of a resolution calling for a relaunch of the eu's climate policy and for a swift agreement on ambitious and binding targets for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources. i also reiterated my wish for an ambitious and legally binding international agreement on climate action beyond 2020, which meets the challenge of limiting global warming to below 2 degrees. i also voted for the urgent strengthening and expansion of current measures to limit greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 and beyond, and for increased resources from developed countries to finance mitigation and adaptation, technology development and transfer, and capacity building in developing countries, in line with the establishment of the green climate fund.
in writing. of course i totally follow my colleague mister leinen on this topic. this year's climate change conference in lima needs to set out the main elements of the 2015 global climate agreement which shall include commitments to fight climate change by all countries in order to stay within the below 2°c objective. the s&ds call on industrialised countries to lead by example and present ambitious emission cuts by march 2015 and to provide financial support to help the developing countries achieve their own emission reductions. it is therefore crucial to provide clarity on how to scale up the mobilisation of climate finance in order to achieve the joint goal of usd 100 billion per year by 2020 - a goal which has already been agreed in copenhagen.
madam vice-president, you said it yourself: there is a lack of political perspective. the result of this frustration is that pressure is indeed growing in several member states to move towards unilateral recognition of palestine. the debate is also raging in my own member state, belgium. we are clear that the right of peoples to self-determination also applies to palestine. that principle is an important one for my party and also for myself as a fleming. but the only way to do that is through politics and diplomacy. and recognition without a negotiated peace agreement will undermine further talks for a balanced two-state solution that guarantees the security of israeli and palestinian citizens. you said: the eu can be the first political actor to initiate the dialogue. we would encourage you to no longer be content with being a lender but to be a real actor in the political, humanitarian and security spheres.
mr president, i also thank the vice-president for the clarity and also the shared empathy of your preliminary remarks. it changes us a little. the opposition and our differences have been known for some time. however, as we can clearly hear in this debate, there are many observations and sentiments which we actually share, starting with one obvious one which has been repeated: the status quo is not an option. in fact, however, the negotiations are at a standstill, a situation which obviously continues to cause frustration and leads to a hardening of attitudes, such as the law on the jewish character of the state of israel, which is counterproductive even in the eyes of the president, the policy of settlement which continues but also this violence, again and again, that of fatah which does not control its armed factions, that of the hamas militias and that of the attacks, including that in jerusalem. something has to change, we agree on that, but not on this, at least not on this timetable. let us be clear, this is the timetable i do not accept, neither this unilateral and unconditional recognition which will inevitably freeze any capacity of the palestinians to make any compromises in the future, nor this recognition today of a state which is not one. two governments, two entities, one of which is a recognized terrorist movement; how are we going to get around this reality and also accept that we are giving this status today to those very people who refuse to recognize the state of israel? i am convinced, mrs mogherini, that there is no alternative. our role is to bring the peace partners back to the negotiating table, but not to raise flags that would jeopardize the future.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the high representative for the priority she has given to the israeli-palestinian conflict since the beginning of her mandate. i also thank the member states which have already started this process of recognition. the recognition of the palestinian state is not a reward, it is simply a right. recognition of the palestinian state is not negotiable with an occupier. the recognition of the palestinian state is for us the guarantee of a resumption of the dialogue which has so far failed. it is also a breath of fresh air for the two-state solution which has been defended by the union until today. recognition allows for more equal negotiation between the two parties. but recognition also means more responsibility for the authorities and the palestinian authority. the union must play its part today. parliament must support you, madam high representative, and that is what we want today in this parliament. i also welcome the hundreds of israeli patriots who have signed this petition for recognition of the palestinian state. these israeli patriots have love for their country and know that this recognition is the best solution to secure the state of israel.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the celebration of the 25th anniversary of the united nations convention on the rights of the child, i would like to draw the attention of this house to a concern which i believe is essential but which has been largely neglected. i want to talk about protecting children on the internet. as you know, the convention on the rights of the child states that children need special protection, special care and in particular appropriate legal protection. in the real world, it's relatively easy to tell when it's a child, first visually; however, in cyberspace, virtuality and anonymity do not allow identifying a child or a minor as easily. that is why i think that more specialised protection mechanisms should be put in place. the first proposal is that, given the growing cybercrime against children, it is urgent to consider a better codification of the status of minors on the internet. i believe that more active and more vigorous cooperation with internet providers should be considered, so that the user accounts of minors can be identified as such throughout the internet. it's not very difficult to do, and it would allow us to prosecute many adults who abuse children under the guise of anonymity. second proposal: cyberpredation covers the use of the internet to communicate with minors online and manipulate them for criminal purposes, not just to commit sexual abuse there are other forms of abuse. therefore, as canada, the united states and belgium have already done, it would be appropriate for the european union to adopt a directive applicable to all member states and allowing the necessary measures to be taken to make all forms of cyberpredation punishable.
mr president, in an increasingly digital and constantly changing world, our responsibility is first and foremost to protect european consumers, to protect them against the leakage of their data on the internet, to protect them against all attacks on the neutrality of the internet, to avoid an internet of caste, and to combat the digital divide for them, to abolish roaming charges as soon as possible and, above all, to combat any abuse of a dominant position. as such, i call on the commission to continue its investigations into google's practices. it is unacceptable that google should favour its own services when used as a search engine. it is unacceptable that this practice has not yet been sanctioned and it is completely unacceptable that in the 21st century, in the european union, consumer rights are not respected. the whole of the european parliament is calling on you, commissioner, to act, to protect consumers, that is your duty. we in parliament will help you to do that.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, the world is experiencing a silent crisis that is devastating entire communities in the developing world. the examination of this problem in the european parliament therefore obliges us to focus on a humanitarian, political, economic and developmental scourge which requires a coordinated and coherent response. this is obviously an ethical imperative which also has economic side effects. we all know - and this has been said and repeated here - that more than 165 million children under five are undernourished and that the first thousand days of life are of vital importance for child development. we are all aware of the recurrent nutritional crises affecting the sahel and sub-saharan africa. what i'm interested in is how are we going to tackle the causes of this disease? we cannot dissociate this issue from the issue of food self-sufficiency. i would like - i have great confidence in you, i had the opportunity to attend your presentation at the time of your hearing, so i think you are certainly aware of these issues - that in your plan and in your approach, the need for transversal policies that are not only focused on undernutrition but also on the issue of food self-sufficiency is first taken into account. i haven't heard about the land grab yet; i see that in africa, there is a real tendency in the economic world to grab land, a tendency with obviously dramatic consequences. we have talked about water, and we have also talked about education and technology transfer, perhaps on our part, which can improve the productivity and yield of these lands. i agree with the rapporteur who stresses that it is quite scandalous to allow financial speculation on food. as for the women's issue, i naturally agree because i am a privileged witness to the major role of women, particularly in africa and in the economic world. we trust you, commissioner, and we expect you to come back with a fairly broad plan covering the whole problem.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the committee on women's rights and gender equality in this parliament, let me stress that in the injustice of child malnutrition there is an internal injustice, namely the discrimination of little girls against little boys. thus, before the age of five, girls are three times more likely than boys to suffer from severe malnutrition. lacking adequate nutrition and thus more vulnerable to growth problems, girls are more likely to die when they are very young. it is therefore necessary to identify the cultural and religious barriers to discriminatory practices and attitudes that are harmful to girls, and of course to try to remedy them. furthermore, according to the food and agriculture organization of the united nations, if women farmers had access to the same means of production as men farmers, they could increase world yields by 20 to 30 percent and increase agricultural production for food. in other words, these advances would prevent 100 million to 150 million people from starving. therefore, tackling inequalities between men and women and between girls and boys from an early age, ending the disadvantageous treatment of little girls, improving the prospects of women farmers, are concrete ways of tackling child malnutrition in developing countries. it seems to me that's a priority.
the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the last few years. yesterday, dr. mukwege moved us all by describing the plight of women in the democratic republic of congo. today, by addressing violence against women and children in iraq, we are opening another window on the unacceptable. kidnapping, enslavement, rape, sexual and physical abuse of women and children, not to mention - it's hard to believe - the sale of yazidi women in the market of mosul. in the face of such atrocities, we at least strongly condemned these attacks in our resolution and called on the commission and the member states to take specific measures to remedy the tragic situation of women and children in iraq and syria. but above all, and this is essential to me, we are asking the iraqi government to ratify the rome statute so that the international criminal court can prosecute the crimes committed by the islamic state. (the president cut off the speaker's microphone)
the european commission has been in office for only one month. the present motion of censure by anti-european and far-right meps is to be seen in this context as a destructive manoeuvre aimed at damaging the european institutions. however, the latest developments in the luxembourg tax affair have once again highlighted the need for a european response to the practice of 'tax ruling' in many member states. the luxembourg legislation which is the focus of the interest is legal but not legitimate. the creation of tax justice must be a priority at european level, to which the commission must give its sincere and unreserved support.
in writing. - i voted against the motion of censure against the european commission tabled by the europe-haters and the far right in the wake of the so-called luxleaks case. i would prefer to see rapid and concrete results in terms of employment and taxation rather than resignation. the resignation of the commission would have delayed for several months the much needed effort to revive the economy and create jobs. it would also have delayed the determined action which the commission must take immediately on tax transparency and harmonisation at european level.
in the case of the commission, the n-va voted against the motion of censure. the challenges facing the member states and the eu are immense and do not tolerate political games. does this mean a blank cheque for juncker? - i'm not sure. it is unethical for member states to conclude shady tax deals with letterbox companies that do not carry out any real economic activity there, just to allow multinationals to pay little or no tax. if we want to reduce the tax burden for everyone, we must make sure that everyone pays their fair share. and then we also have to make sure that companies pay taxes in the country where they actually operate. we must work together to combat tax fraud and unfair competition. the commissioner's investigation into the luxleaks must be thorough, transparent and completely impartial and must be completed as soon as possible. if the investigation reveals that illegal acts have been committed, appropriate action is necessary. only in this way can we safeguard the credibility of the eu.
in writing. i opposed the motion to censure the commission and its president, jean claude juncker. this is an act of populism, exploited by the europe-haters and the elected representatives of the national front in our assembly. in the face of the many challenges we face, it would be irresponsible for us to jeopardise the commission the day after it takes office. there are many projects to be implemented. i think it would be particularly appropriate to move forward on the issue of tax harmonisation, in particular by unblocking the proposal for a directive, still in the council, of march 2011 on a common system for calculating the tax base of companies active in the european union (accis). let us not forget that in tax matters it is the member states - and therefore the council of ministers - which have the final say.
in writing. - i denied the motion. europe-haters and far-right parties have united for the first time in an attempt to make europe ungovernable and to re-experience a deep crisis for european citizens. luxleaks is an alibi. the european far-right parties have been in contact with each other for several weeks to table the motion of censure, well before the revelations calling into question the former juncker government. however, it is true that multinationals cannot be above the law in tax matters. but it would also be unfair to revive a deep crisis among the citizens of europe. we demand that tax harmonization be introduced and that each member state propose the same taxation for companies to avoid tax dumping. there's a saying that poachers make the best hunters. the president is playing his own credibility on this issue and every mistake will play into the hands of the anti-europeans.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the draft decision of the european parliament not to object to the commission delegated regulation of 8 october 2014 on the provisional system of advance payments on contributions to cover the administrative expenditure of the single resolution board during the transitional period.
in writing. - there have been significant delays in the implementation of the 2014-2020 cohesion policy. only one fifth of all operational programmes will be able to be adopted before the end of the year, whereas the submission and adoption should have taken place by the end of january 2015. cohesion policy is one of the main strategies for investment in the real economy: with over €350 billion by 2020, it is making a major contribution to growth and jobs in the eu. it is therefore negligent to let important time pass. the implementation of the programmes must start as soon as possible so as not to hinder investment in jobs, growth, renewable energy and cross-border projects. the government and the commission must act with a sense of urgency and speed up the process effectively to prevent further damage. we also urgently need to find a solution for the €23 billion still outstanding payments from the 2007-2013 funding period.
in writing. the cohesion policy for 2014-2020 is obviously a major programme in terms of socio-economic development and solidarity within the european union. the added value of the structural funds for the member states' regions in difficulty is obviously undeniable. they provide a basis for taking profound action to support the redeployment of these regions. they have thus created tens of thousands of jobs. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's financial instruments, in particular the european regional development fund, in order to ensure that the union's macro-financial assistance is fully integrated into the union's macro-financial assistance.
in writing. i am concerned about the delay in implementing cohesion policy. these delays weaken regional and local authorities and their ability to manage the structural funds effectively. these funds are a catalyst for growth in europe and therefore need special attention in these difficult times. it is essential that the commission should explain to parliament what action it intends to take to remedy this. it's about our growth and well-being.
in writing. - on 24 november 2014, i voted in favour of the draft motion for a resolution on the delays in the start-up phase of the 2014-2020 cohesion policy. europe is, i regret to say, struggling to emerge from the economic crisis, as the latest economic forecasts from the european commission have shown. the low prospects for future growth, coupled with high unemployment and low inflation, are all indicators that remind us that we are lacking in investment in europe. cohesion policy aims to strengthen growth and employment and to reduce disparities in levels of development between europe's regions. any delay in the start-up phase of the 2014-2020 cohesion policy therefore hinders economic recovery and job creation a little more, especially in the least developed regions. citizens, who are becoming less and less enthusiastic about the european project, expect europe to offer prospects for their future and that of their children. that is why i have decided to give my full support to this motion for a resolution which calls in particular on the commission and the member states to speed up the adoption of the partnership agreements and operational programmes.
in writing. - it should be borne in mind that the re-budgeting, from the 2014 financial year to the 2015 financial year, of the amounts not committed under article 19 of the mff implies a revision of the mff by 1 may 2015, which, even if of a technical nature, must respect the multiannual budgetary procedure: a proposal for revision of the mff presented by the commission, parliament's approval and the unanimous adoption by the council. i would also point out that the adoption of the operational programmes also requires the approval of a draft amending budget covering the commitment appropriations concerned for 2015, which means, in the best case, that the actual start of implementation of the programmes will be postponed until mid-2015.
in the context of our efforts to better support small and mediumsized enterprises (smes), we must be conscious of the costs to smes when drawing up regulations and directives. smes are still one of the most important factors in creating growth and jobs in europe. the cost of complying with a regulation can be ten times higher for smes than for larger companies. an independent impact assessment for smes is useful to avoid the major difficulties for these companies, which are often associated with the implementation of complex administrative rules. these companies must not be suffocated by excessive bureaucracy. for this reason, i am in favour of the sme test being consistently applied to legislative projects at european level.
in writing. - we stress that refit cannot be used as a pretext for lowering the level of ambition on issues of vital importance to the safety and wellbeing of employees, or on the protection of the environment. i warn against the promotion of a deregulation agenda using the pretext of better regulation or of reducing the burdens on smes. we call on the commission not to lower its level of ambition and call for public policy objectives including environmental, social, and health and safety standards not to be jeopardised.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of the protection of children, the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation of children in the european union. the eu is committed to promoting the rights of the child under the treaty on european union and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. in this context, the european parliament calls on the member states and the commission to continue to give priority to the rights of the child in their domestic policies and in their relations with third countries. international and european conventions must be respected and improved in this respect.
in writing. - this anniversary is an opportunity to recall the measures, and to take additional measures, to ensure respect for the rights of every child. the european union has been very much involved in this issue and i welcome the commitments it has made in the stockholm programme.
in writing. because of the vulnerability of the child, special attention must be given to ensuring the child's rights to develop, learn and fulfil, to have his or her voice heard and to achieve his or her full potential. twenty-five years have passed since the united nations convention on the rights of the child was signed. progress has been made, but there are still many children whose rights are not respected. even in europe, many children are still victims of violence, abuse, exploitation, social exclusion and poverty. to paraphrase kofi annan, i believe that 'nothing is more important than building a world in which all our children have the opportunity to realise their full potential and grow up healthy, in peace and with dignity'.
in writing. serba, seven, works in the slate mines. from six o'clock in the morning, he breaks stones and saws the slate for six rupees a day. half the workers in the mill are children. 6.5 million children under five die every year from preventable causes, 168 million children between the ages of five and 17 are in the workforce, 58 million children of that age are out of school, and an estimated 250,000 are child soldiers. the ep also welcomed the fact that the commission had already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. since 1989, dramatic progress has been made in the protection of and access to rights and in the promotion of equality. nevertheless, the figures for child abuse in europe and elsewhere remain unacceptable. the need for this convention is clearly timely, and its scope must continue to be extended to all children, without discrimination on grounds of nationality, social status, gender or religion. every child is first and foremost a child!
in writing. one hundred and sixty-eight million children aged 5 to 17 are working, 11% of girls are married before the age of 15; in sub-saharan africa, one in 10 children die before they reach the age of five. the 25th anniversary of the un convention on the rights of the child should be an opportunity to ensure its full implementation at both political and practical level, and to take further steps to ensure respect for the rights of every child, everywhere, especially the most vulnerable. the vote on this resolution was a priority.
in writing. - i believe that the rights of the child are at the heart of the european union's policies and that the 25th anniversary of the un convention on the rights of the child is an opportunity to ensure its full implementation both at political and practical level, and to take further steps to ensure that the rights of every child, everywhere in the world, especially the most vulnerable, are respected. the commitment made by the european union in the context of the stockholm programme to develop an integrated european strategy to promote and protect effectively the rights of the child in the context of the internal and external policies of the european union, and to support the efforts of the member states in this area, should also be welcomed; calls on the commission to present an ambitious and comprehensive strategy and action plan on children's rights for the next five years, building on and updating the eu agenda on the rights of the child.
in the case of the digital single market, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the digital single market is fully operational. however, in order to ensure fair competition, a level playing field is needed, which does not exist at present. these include the creation of international standards for the protection of personal data and privacy, standardised consumer protection and security rules for online shopping and trading, and the protection of intellectual property on the internet. when search engines are used, the search process and the search results should be free from distortions in order to preserve diversity of content and access to competition. in order to avoid abusive market position, large search engines will even be forced to split up their business areas. equally important are high-performance broadband and telecommunications networks in all regions of the eu and the abolition of roaming charges within the eu. the demands of this motion for a resolution are welcome, since the digital market knows no borders and there is much less manoeuvre at national level to establish effective rules.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the commission to consider proposals to separate search engines from google's other commercial services. it is important to be able to guarantee neutral access to online research for all citizens. it is therefore essential for consumer protection to combat any abuse of a dominant position.
in writing. - the completion of a digital single market is seen by the n-va as a prime area where the eu can add value to increase competitiveness and create growth and jobs, with strong guarantees on privacy and data protection. the resolution contains many positive elements, such as accessibility for people with disabilities, as well as ensuring online safety for children. however, we abstained from the final vote because of the indirect reference to the google case, and more particularly the unbundling of search engines from other commercial services. parliament should not prejudge the commission's investigation into whether or not google has abused its dominant position. it is not for parliament to pass judgement on specific antitrust cases; this is the commission's exclusive competence. the n-va supports search neutrality and the open and neutral nature of the internet. we are seeking, among other things, to prohibit operators from deliberately blocking or delaying certain traffic and to allow operators to offer new services with guaranteed quality (specialised services), provided that the guarantee that the regular best-effort internet remains of sufficient quality.
in writing. it seems important to me to let the commission continue its work on this matter. indeed, this resolution implicitly targets google's activities by stressing the need to separate the activities related to search engines and other commercial services. the commission has been working on this for some time. it does not seem to me that parliament should interfere at this stage in the regulation of the internal market and the respect of competition. it would be more appropriate to focus on the ways in which the integration and unification of the european digital market can be accelerated. the lack of europe in this area is currently costing at least 260 billion euros a year. we need to develop a coherent and transdisciplinary strategy to maximise the development of the digital economy, which is the source of growth. i therefore expect the european commission to propose an ambitious legislative package that finally meets the expectations of the european citizens.
in writing. i supported this motion adopted by the european parliament on the digital single market which calls on the european commission to consider unbundling google's search and other commercial services... google, which now has 90% of the online search market and is currently under investigation by the commission's competition services to determine whether it is abusing its dominant position. google must respect european rules and internet users should be able to choose between several competitors. that's my opinion.
in writing. - we tabled this text which proposes to put an end to the abuse of a dominant position by certain search engines. they would no longer be considered as commercial services like the others. the purpose of the procedure is twofold. on the one hand, it would allow for more healthy competition, and on the other, greater transparency and greater benefits for the citizen. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the text voted on thursday should mark the end of recess. it is high time we cut the wires that make european citizens, consumers and decision-makers into puppets of these multinationals who think they can decide everything for us. it's time for the sanctions.
mr president, i voted for this resolution on child malnutrition in developing countries, which would have been better if amendment no 3 had been accepted. this amendment is in line with the conclusions of the un special rapporteur, olivier de schutter, on the development of agriculture in the lessfavoured areas to produce the food needed and on the priority of this agricultural policy in development policies. however, the epp, which is bemoaning the pope's message in plenary on the fight against inequality and poverty, has clearly not understood the message. pope francis must not be very proud of his faithful in this chamber, who applaud him in the message but do not translate that applause into a vote and turn their backs on these general principles of poverty reduction, which are necessary.
in the case of the united states, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the united states does not become a party to the gatt agreement. it is estimated that 2.6 million of these children die each year in developing countries. these terrible figures highlight the urgent need for an integrated approach and coordinated action in a number of areas related to malnutrition. clearly, the steps taken so far have not led to a lasting solution in many regions. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the commission's commitment to food-specific interventions, for example, should be increased. in particular, small-scale local farmers must be enabled to produce more efficiently and sustainably.
in writing. nearly one billion people still suffer from hunger worldwide and at least 225 million children under five suffer from acute and chronic malnutrition and stunted growth due to chronic childhood and maternal malnutrition. an estimated 2.6 million of these die each year in developing countries. according to who, malnutrition is by far the leading cause of infant mortality. it's obviously unbearable. the european union must redouble its efforts to ensure universal access to adequate food. it must continue to address the 'mostly man-made' causes of child malnutrition and develop an integrated approach in the areas affecting undernutrition (health, education, agriculture, water, access to sanitation, etc.). it is imperative that the international community ensure that the international targets for reducing stunting in children under five years of age are met by 2025 and that all forms of malnutrition are eliminated by 2030.
in writing. - child malnutrition is to developing countries what childhood obesity is to developed countries, a preventable health scourge. a stain on humanity's inability to protect the most vulnerable among us, 800 million children are affected, and to equitably distribute the food needs of the planet. moreover, calls are increasingly coming from international organizations such as who and fao, urging governments to do more to combat malnutrition. it is by far the leading cause of infant mortality, accounting for 35% of the total burden of disease in children under 5 years of age. "there is enough food for everyone to eat properly. it is the availability of food that is the problem. we need to rethink our food systems", said fao director-general josé graziano da silva, opening the second international conference on nutrition last week. we can only give him too much credit. our global food system is out of breath and needs to be completely redesigned with a clear focus on local production, the end of monocultures, and priority action on access to health care and education.
in writing. one billion people still suffer from hunger in the world. at least 225 million children under five suffer from acute and chronic malnutrition, and 2.6 million of these die each year in developing countries. the absence of a rapid solution to child malnutrition through development cooperation and humanitarian interventions risks undermining all aspects of human development. when i voted for this resolution, i therefore asked for the development and emergency programmes to be made more effective. they must be coordinated more closely to prevent food crises. i also took the opportunity to deplore the reduction in the funds allocated to agriculture under the 10th european development fund (edf) compared to the 9th and urged the council to re-examine this issue and put in place corrective measures.
in writing. before the age of five, girls are three times more likely than boys to be malnourished. deprived of good nutrition at the expense of boys, and thus more vulnerable to growth problems, girls are more likely to die when they are very young. therefore, cultural barriers, including discriminatory practices and attitudes that favour boys over girls, need to be identified and addressed. furthermore, according to the food and agriculture organization of the united nations, if women farmers had access to the same means of production as their male counterparts around the world, they could increase their agricultural yields by 20 to 30 percent and increase total agricultural production by 2.5 to 4 percent. in other words, progress that could save 100 million, even 150 million people from starvation! tackling gender inequality from an early age, ending the unfavourable treatment of girls, improving the prospects of women farmers - these are the concrete ways to combat child malnutrition in developing countries!
for the greens/efa group mr president, we may like the theatre, but i am simply saying that we need this parliament to vote on the commission's work programme, which is its most important act. i heard some people in the conference of presidents say: 'we will vote on the 2016 work programme!' this means that parliament would take a decision eighteen months after the european elections, the establishment of a new commission and the drawing up of a new work programme. it's obviously ridiculous. i think that this parliament must vote, at the january part-session at the latest, on a resolution on the commission's work programme if this institution is to exist.
mr president, i think it is a good thing that we can do this in january, which gives us the opportunity to hold the debate tomorrow and prepare a resolution. my only request is that it's not a christmas tree, a christmas tree. i know that this may not be the time to talk about it, but in any case i fear that we will have 10, 15 or 20 pages, with all the priorities, instead of a short political resolution. in the latter case, i can support mr pittella's proposal.
mr president, of course if we are to have any influence on what the commission intends to do, the sooner the better. i think that if it is possible to do it in december, let us do it in december. if we don't do it in december, let's do it in january. but, in any case, if there is a majority to do it in december, let us do it now!
for the ecr group the cites convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora is now over 40 years old, but more than ever it is needed. cites as has already been said provides protection for no less than 35 000 animal and plant species. for example, if the african black rhinoceros was saved from extinction for the time being, this convention is one of the reasons. the world wildlife fund estimates the value of the illegal trade in endangered species and their products at $19 billion alone. that's the fourth largest illegal trade after drugs, counterfeiting and human trafficking. and the profits are often used to finance war and terrorism. cites regulates international trade so that it can be conducted in a sustainable way, with a view to human needs and the economy. indeed, 180 countries have already joined cites, including all 28 eu member states. today we are talking about the accession of the european union to the agreement. as the ecr group's shadow rapporteur, i can confirm that we support this accession. it promotes legal transparency on the precise role of the european union and its power. by the way, this is not a unicum. the eu has previously acceded to other international environmental conventions such as the bonn convention, the cartagena protocol and the nagoya protocol. i would like to stress that there are clearly defined responsibilities between the eu and the member states and that the eu's accession to cites does not affect the division of competences between the eu and the member states, nor the way in which a common eu position is determined. the only sensitive point is whether this dossier should have a dual legal basis (environment and trade). but this debate will not prevent us from adopting it in plenary tomorrow.
in writing. the proposal on the table is not ideal, but at least we are making progress after the file has been frozen for five years. the 6% target remains, that is the main thing. by 2020, fuels in the eu should emit on average 6% less co2. the transparency that comes with it is new and good. importers must indicate where their raw fuel comes from. in any case, the commission should report every three years on the progress made and make adjustments if necessary. let us now proceed with this compromise and not put our heels in the sand with no prospect of further results.
in writing. the fuel quality directive obliges manufacturers to reduce the greenhouse intensity of transport fuels by 6% by 2020. this greenhouse intensity also reflects the polluting factor of the production of transport fuels. for example, the production of fuel from tar sands or shale oil is even more polluting than that from conventional petroleum. this is also reflected in the european commission's own impact assessment of 2011. the commission is now trying to treat all sources equally. it is therefore contrary to its own impact assessment and to the european objectives to reduce co2 emissions. without this differentiation, the european market will be rapidly flooded by fuels from highly polluting tar sands and shale oil. the commission has been caught in the middle of a trade agreement with canada by the canadian lobby, which wants to use its tar sands here. the fuel equalisation distorts the progress we would make in reducing greenhouse gas emissions in transport. so an apparent decrease could actually be an increase because of climate-damaging production. the commission is going to take action against organized fraud on farmers. it is particularly cynical that, in the wake of the lima climate summit and in the run-up to the paris summit in 2015, europe is throwing its leadership role in the fight against climate change into the wind.
mr president, commissioner, the proposal to classify serious offences was awaited not only by the european parliament but also and above all by the transport sector in europe. the list should effectively exclude road hauliers who systematically commit serious infringements of union rules; those who refuse to comply with the rules must no longer be allowed to operate with impunity within the european union. i can only be disappointed with the bill presented today. disappointed by this proposal for a regulation which is both incomplete, vague and inconsistent. as an example, let me mention some of its shortcomings: it does not sanction illegal cabotage and therefore tolerates social dumping in the transport sector, which puts workers' jobs at risk and the existence of many companies that work properly. this classification does not make it possible to combat social fraud effectively, which we know leads to unacceptable working conditions and safety and to real distortions of competition. this classification does not mention weekly rest periods in the vehicle. these serious deficiencies can lead to serious accidents and even worse - fatal accidents. we cannot accept the endangerment of the lives of workers and road users! these shortcomings are all the more regrettable since the social partners, representatives of both employees and employers, had agreed on a joint contribution. unfortunately, despite the guidelines sought by the commission, it seems that the views of the social partners have not been given the importance they should have, and that they have not been taken into account. today it seems to me that it is really important for the commission to look again at this classification, with the help of the social partners. i am convinced that this will provide us with a tool tomorrow to respond to the legitimate concerns of the sector and of all european citizens.
mr president, it is not easy to put back on track a budget that has gone off track. we are seeing it now in belgium, for example, where for the first time in 25 years the government is trying to put that budget in order with new recipes, a government that is restructuring the budget and not raising taxes for it. structural reforms are even more difficult to implement, but they are necessary if we are to grow our economy and put people back to work. the confidence in the future is lacking. there's a lot of resistance. you have all noticed that in the many strikes that are taking place in belgium. trust is the key word here. without trust, there can be no social peace. without trust, there is no investment. without trust, there is no growth and no jobs. but that confidence will only come if we keep to the course, if we implement what has been agreed effectively. a 300 billion investment plan may sound nice, but we can just as easily throw that money away if we don't reform and eliminate the deficits at the same time. that is why i am afraid that the european commission is too positive in its assessment of the two-pack and the six-pack. yes, deficits have fallen, but at the same time - as mr lucke has also pointed out - the debt level in the eurozone has increased and new debts are undermining that much-needed confidence. so relaxing the rules is a luxury we unfortunately cannot afford. we must continue to reform, we must continue to push, we must stay the course because that is what is needed to secure the future of our children.
madam president, commissioner, i want to say at the outset that the greens are convinced that to face the challenges of the 21st century, europeans must come together and act together. this includes, to strengthen us, a common currency. we believe that we must keep this common currency and the question is therefore: are the instruments we have today to ensure the cohesion of economic and monetary union appropriate and are they being used correctly? first of all, as regards the nature of the instruments at our disposal, it is clear that when we have budgetary discipline and competition for revenue, the only adjustment variable is expenditure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we do not think that this is a good thing and therefore budgetary discipline must be complemented by fiscal convergence and also by the setting of binding social and environmental objectives. when you, as a government, are required to balance your budgets but also to reduce poverty and your ecological footprint, it leads you to make budgetary adjustments of a different nature than those we see today. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. finally, the six-month period is now very widely used to encourage structural reforms aimed at reducing the role of the state - i have already mentioned this - and the direct and indirect costs of labour, by putting workers in competition with each other. we believe that the six-month period should rather be used as an instrument of cooperation between member states to enable an upward convergence of our social, environmental and democratic standards. this is what we must do if we are to review the economic governance package of the european union, which we consider to be a necessary instrument but which is now inappropriate and misused.
blue-card question.– mr o’flynn, i would agree with you and many others who say that the current status quo is not economically viable. having a common currency without common fiscal, social and environmental policy is not working. but there are two answers to that inconsistency: either we step back to the disintegration of the monetary and economic union into nation states, which is what you advocate, or we resolve it the other way by more integration on the social and fiscal side, which is what we advocate. how do you react to that?
mr president, what i lack in the debate is a sense that this is our concern. the member states that are not doing their job are being targeted. the commission is being asked to drop the rules. there is talk of more flexibility. in fact, we should consider it normal for member states to have balanced budgets, for member states to do everything possible to modernise their economies, to keep their social systems up to date so that future generations can also enjoy adequate pensions and social protection. but apparently that's not normal. apparently, we need a six-pack and a two-pack to make this clear. that's the whole point. we must do everything we can, together here, to strengthen the six-pack and the two-pack and to increase their democratic legitimacy. because there is one truth we cannot escape: we will have to balance our budgets, we will have to reform to make our economies more competitive than they are today. the fact that we are ignoring what has happened in the past by various member states is actually unfair and puts our future generations at risk. that is precisely what is at stake here, namely what the commission will have to do in the coming months and weeks to strengthen the six-pack and two-pack so that those countries can effectively balance their budgets and progress can be made again in terms of growth and job creation.
mr president, commissioner, when we want to evaluate and review measures with such serious macroeconomic consequences, the evaluation spectrum must of course be wide enough to allow for a coherent analysis. now, for the six-pack and the two-pack, what is the valuation? the commission's technical communication on the development of public deficits is all that is needed. there is little or no assessment of the impact on economic growth. nothing on the unemployment rate. nothing about the evolution of social rights. and nothing on the poverty rate. however, for the vast majority of europeans, the two-pack and six-pack are clearly different in their daily assessment: they are fiscal austerity, a frontal attack on social rights, a significant increase in poverty and the challenge to fundamental rights such as universal access to health care. the evaluation must therefore be followed by a determined and socially just response. europe, while controlling its public deficits, must once again become a lever for social progress and hope. in this connection, a new social eight-pack could be created, which should above all include a policy of public investment, where the private sector does not take its responsibilities - the latest ecb figures have shown this - but also, of course, an effective and coordinated taxation of large capital and corporate profits. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a welcome step towards the creation of a european employment area. austerity - it's now obvious - has not worked. the social backlash was planned but it is, unfortunately, cruelly on schedule. the economic failure has finally discredited the strategy - if it can be called that - of blind austerity. a global assessment would have the merit of producing clear conclusions. we must quickly change course and reinvest in the values of progress and social justice. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". i thank you for your question, but unfortunately, whenever you speak, you always criticize the french socialists. i am a belgian socialist myself and i am here to do a job in the interests of europe and not to answer the questions of the national front about their eternal enemies, namely sometimes the socialists, sometimes the liberals.
in writing. ‒ since 1995, any citizen, resident, business or association in a member state has had the right to complain to the ombudsman about maladministration in the administration of its institutions, bodies, offices or agencies. this european institution, modelled on the scandinavian model, is designed to improve citizens' access to european administrations. it is the role of the european parliament to elect the ombudsman. in this democratic process, i gave my support to mrs emily o'reilly this week so that she can continue to improve the quality of the eu administration in the interests of all europeans.
in writing. ‒ we have re-elected ms emily o'reilly as ombudsman. the objectives of this new mandate will be to improve the quality of administration and increase transparency within the union. its role is important for the union's transparency and for contact with citizens.
in writing. i am pleased that the european parliament has confirmed emily o'reilly as european ombudsman by a very large majority. i joined his commitment to increase transparency within the institutions and to actively combat the phenomenon of shoplifting, and i wanted to support him. the post of european ombudsman is a key function for greater efficiency and better quality of administration in the union institutions and bodies. its purpose is to investigate complaints submitted by european citizens and residents, businesses or associations established in the union. i have full confidence in emily o'reilly's work and thank her for her commitment to implementing her new 'cap on 2019' strategy, which aims to ensure relevance and increase the visibility and integrity of public administration.
in writing. ‒ it is a very good signal that the european parliament sent this tuesday afternoon, confirming by a very large majority emily o'reilly as european ombudsman. i joined his commitment to strengthening transparency within the institutions and to the active fight against the phenomenon of shoplifting, and i wanted to support him. the post of european ombudsman is a key function for greater efficiency and better quality of administration in the union institutions and bodies. its purpose is to investigate complaints submitted by european citizens and residents, businesses or associations established in the union. the outgoing ombudsman, re-elected for the duration of the legislature, i.e. for five years, has set herself firmly on an ambitious path, via her new strategy 'cape on 2019'. the main objectives of this strategy, to increase the visibility and integrity of public administration, must be supported in this political turbulent period when the gap between european institutions and citizens continues to grow dangerously.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the ombudsman, the only candidate and already in office. we are the majority who have reiterated our confidence in his work.
in writing. ‒ through the refit programme, the commission is working to make eu law simpler and less costly. the aim is to create a simple, clear, stable and predictable legal framework for businesses, workers and citizens. the refit programme recognised that the tasks of the scientific committee on food, established by directive 93/5/eec and in operation since 1997, whose opinions serve as the basis for eu legislation in the fields of consumer health and food safety, food consumption, toxicology and hygiene throughout the food production, nutrition or agricultural and food technology processes, among others, were transferred to the european food safety authority (efsa) by regulation (ec) no 178/2002. i therefore welcome the repeal of directive 93/5/eec, as it has become obsolete.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text in order to ensure the proper functioning of the scientific committee for food. this will encourage member states to provide scientific support to the committee and to organise cooperation with the competent national bodies on scientific matters relating to food safety.
in writing. in the interests of legislative simplicity, it was necessary for the european parliament to give its consent to repeal directive 93/5/eec. it had become obsolete following the adoption of regulation (ec) no 178/2002, which entrusted the european food safety authority (efsa) with the task of scientific examination of food-related matters. this decision will have no impact on food security in europe. the commission's guiding principle in this area is to apply an integrated approach from the barn to the table, covering all sectors of the food chain, namely: feed production, primary production, food processing, storage, transport and retail.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleague mr la via's text. i regret, however, that the text was published so late and that the debate which was to take place on the monday before the vote was cancelled. i think this one should have been held.
the illegal trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora is a global problem and therefore requires a global approach. the international cites convention is the most important instrument in this struggle. it is about the survival of rare species of animals and plants, but also about our security, about peace. after all, illegal trade in rare animals and plants and their derivatives is a multibillion-dollar business. the profits are often used to finance war and terrorism. my party, the nva, is a strong supporter of the european union's accession to cites and we voted in favour of it. until now, only individual member states have been members and the eu has been an observer. with accession, there is greater legal transparency on the precise role of the eu and we increase our leverage without compromising the division of competences between the eu and the member states.
in writing. ‒ the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) in force since 1975 is an international agreement which aims to regulate international trade in these species so that their survival is not endangered. the eu has had observer status since the original agreement only included states as parties. the amendment to the agreement, which entered into force in 2013, now allows the eu to become a full party to the agreement. this enables it to be adequately represented at cites meetings and to participate fully in the various activities of the convention. i therefore welcome the council's decision to allow eu accession, as the eu can now legally apply and enforce this convention. in addition, this accession also ensures that the eu can pursue its environmental policy objectives fully.
in writing. ‒ the european union had only observer status at the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites). the vote will mean that the union will accede to cites and will thus be able to be represented at the meetings and participate fully in the work of the convention. it will thus have a say in all matters which concern it and affect it directly.
in writing. i am pleased that the european parliament has approved the accession of the european union to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites). by signing the convention, the european union is strengthening control of international trade in these 35 000 species and protecting them better by imposing a system of marketing authorizations. all the member states have already signed. as the union is a major international player in the trade arena, it was essential that it provide support to the convention, which will allow it to participate in the work of the convention and to legally commit itself to implementing and enforcing the convention.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted by an overwhelming majority of 641 votes this afternoon to say yes to the eu's accession to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites). it must be said that the current situation is extremely serious with this unprecedented wave of species extinction. some figures are unassailable: 20,000, the number of african elephants killed in 2013, 2,000 horns, the number of new rhino horns entering the trade last year, 9,500, the number of ads on the internet for wildlife trafficking, 54% of which are for live animals. there are 35,000 protected species worldwide, including the largest land mammals, and europe is the third largest destination region for illegal wildlife activity after japan and the united states. this means that it is important for the union to speak with one voice in the conference of the parties, the decision-making body of cites. the union's accession to cites is simply a welcome and logical transfer of sovereignty to protect the fragile diversity of our planet as best as possible.
in writing. ‒ the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) is a crucial international instrument for the protection of endangered species of fauna and flora. the convention entered into force in 1975 and now has 178 states parties (including all the member states of the european union). cites covers more than 35 000 species and ensures that international trade in specimens of these species does not threaten their survival (all imports, exports, re-exports and introductions from the sea of species covered by the convention are subject to a system of authorization). the original text of the convention provided that membership of cites would be limited to states only. the european union has thus only had observer status until now. the proposal for a council decision which i voted for today is to approve the accession of the european union to cites. the union's accession to cites will now allow it to be adequately represented at the meetings and to participate fully in the work of the convention. i'm glad to hear it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which aims to help defend the more than 35 000 species listed in one of the three annexes to the convention and ensures that international trade in specimens of these species does not threaten their survival. all imports, exports, re-exports and introductions from the sea of species covered by the convention are subject to a system of authorization. a text that goes in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ this agreement will strengthen cooperation with morocco in the field of satellite navigation. morocco has expertise in space technology and its applications and wishes to develop the use of satellite radio navigation on its territory and in the surrounding region (western mediterranean and west africa), with a focus on applications specific to this region. moroccan and european companies have been cooperating in the space industry for several years and have a solid basis for supporting and expanding cooperation in this area of great importance to both sides.
in writing. for several years, our industrial companies have been cooperating with morocco in the space sector. i therefore welcome this agreement, which consolidates the foundations of this cooperation. there is no doubt that morocco has real strengths in the field of space technology and i am firmly convinced of the need to strengthen this basis for cooperation which is beneficial to both sides. i support the strengthening of our joint research activities through european and moroccan research programmes that will benefit citizens, industries and scientific communities, and facilitate the growth of gnss applications.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft cooperation agreement on a global navigation satellite system (gnss) for civil use between europe and morocco and therefore voted in favour of the proposal by my colleague mr buzek.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement because it will allow for the exchange of specific knowledge and the transfer of know-how for the benefit of the scientific community, industry and the public. the agreement shall be based on the principles of mutual benefit, reciprocal access to each other's programmes and activities related to the subject matter of the agreement, non-discrimination, effective protection of intellectual property and fair sharing of intellectual property rights, and effective exploitation of results.
in writing. the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation with ukraine is the result of many years of collaboration. i fully support its renewal, which will enable the european union and ukraine to make significant progress in areas of common interest. strengthening their mutual scientific and technological engagement will bring mutual benefits to the scientific communities, industries and citizens of both sides. i welcome this agreement, which is part of the continuing process of rapprochement between ukraine and the union, marked by the recently signed association agreement, which we can welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the renewal of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and ukraine. the agreement is still in force but expired on 7 november 2014. the renewal of the agreement will therefore allow both parties to improve and intensify their scientific and technological cooperation in areas of common interest and will allow for the exchange of specific knowledge and the transfer of know-how for the benefit of the scientific, industrial and public communities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal of jerzy buzek. this is logical, given that the content of the renewed agreement is identical to that of the agreement which was in force until three weeks ago. this initiative will enable the two sides to enhance and intensify their scientific and technological cooperation in areas of common interest and will allow for the exchange of specific knowledge and the transfer of know-how for the benefit of the scientific, industrial and citizen communities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of croatia's participation in the european economic area, as it is a consequence of its membership of the european union. the eea agreement provides for the integration of eu legislation on the four freedoms (free movement of goods, services, persons and capital) in all eea countries.
in writing. croatia has been a member of the european union since 1 july 2013. it is a logical follow-up to allowing it to participate in the european economic area. by voting for the conclusion of this agreement, croatia is enabled to enjoy the full benefits of eu membership. this will enable it to pursue its economic integration and to harmonise its internal legislation with that of the union, especially as regards the accompanying and horizontal policies covering the majority of the four freedoms (free movement of goods, services, persons and capital).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft council decision. by virtue of the act of accession of the republic of croatia (the 28th member state to accede to the european union on 1 july 2013), croatia undertakes to become a party, under the conditions laid down in that act, to the agreement on the european economic area, in accordance with article 128 of the agreement. the republic of croatia is therefore incorporated into the eea agreement as a contracting party by the proposed agreement. i would remind you that the agreement on the european economic area (eea) was signed on 2 may 1992 and entered into force on 1 january 1994. the eea agreement ensures the free movement of goods, services, capital and people (the four freedoms) and also includes agreements on competition policy, consumer protection or education between the 28 eu member states and iceland, norway and liechtenstein.
in writing. ‒ croatia's participation at economic level is only the logical consequence of its accession, so there was no reason to vote against it. the eea agreement provides for the integration of union legislation on the four freedoms (free movement of goods, services, persons and capital) in all eea countries. the agreement also covers cooperation in other important areas such as research and development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture, known as 'accompanying and horizontal policies'. the agreement guarantees individuals and economic operators equal rights and obligations in the eea internal market.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this text is to continue to promote economic activity and competitiveness in the outermost regions, while not undermining the cohesion of the internal market or the legal order of the european union. a new legal framework has been established to change the tax regime known as 'sea grant'.
in writing. france includes 5 of the 8 outermost regions of the european union (guadeloupe, french guiana, martinique, saint-martin, réunion). the eu is very concerned about the economic and social development of these regions, which suffer from the marginalization linked to their geographical specificities such as remoteness, insularity, difficult terrain and climate, dependence on a few local products, etc. they are among the priorities of the eu's cohesion policy, whose main objective is to reduce economic and social disparities across europe. it is therefore important to allow france to apply a differentiated taxation system (gratuit de mer) for certain products from these regions in order to support their competitiveness and their economic and social development. however, this system must not be contrary to the cohesion of the internal market and the legal order of the european union. it is therefore essential to establish a new regime for maritime concessions and to define its legal framework.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission proposal for council decision 2004/162/ec of 10 february 2004 authorising france to apply, until 31 december 2014, exemptions or reductions from the 'grant de mer' tax on a number of products from the french outermost regions, in order to help them cope with the problems of competitiveness and socioeconomic development they are currently facing. france requested to be allowed to maintain a similar system until 31 december 2020. the new proposal aims to establish a new legal framework for offshore licences from 1 january 2015 until 31 december 2020. it also provides for the extension of decision 2004/162/ec for six months in order to allow france to transpose the provisions of the new council decision into its national law.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the colleague's text. the proposal aims to continue to promote economic activity and competitiveness in the outermost regions, while not undermining the cohesion of the internal market or the legal order of the european union.
in writing. ‒ italy has been hit hard by the economic crisis and its impact on household consumption. the case of whirlpool europe is an illustration of the difficult situation faced by many italian workers. 608 employees were dismissed by the company and suppliers, mainly in the province of trento. the region, which has seen its unemployment rate double since 2007, has not been spared by the crisis. the regional economy is therefore very much affected by these redundancies. the eur 1 890 000 of aid from the egf to italy is fully justified and will help to reintegrate these displaced workers into the labour market in a region and country where the crisis has proved devastating.
in writing. in this case, the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is providing up to eur 1 890 000 in response to the closure of a whirlpool production plant in spini di gardolo. the closure also affected five downstream electrical equipment suppliers and producers. the aim is to help 608 workers made redundant in the italian region of trento and to allow the co-financing of measures active on the labour market such as individual job-search assistance, training and retraining, etc. this request has my support and that of the european parliament and i very sincerely hope that this contribution will help, in one way or another, all those people who have been made redundant to cope with the difficulties that may arise in their daily lives as a result of this difficult event.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the italian authorities' request for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the redundancies at whirlpool europe s.r.l. and five downstream suppliers and producers. as a result of the economic downturn of recent years, many households in italy have had to reassess their purchasing decisions, especially those concerning durable goods (and in particular household appliances). the italian authorities have also informed us that the five main domestic appliance manufacturers in italy suffered a sharp decrease in production between 2008 and 2012 due to the economic and financial crisis. it seems to me therefore important to be able to help the 608 workers affected by these redundancies.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund, or more commonly known as the egf, was set up to provide support for workers who become victims of restructuring and global trade. the aim is therefore to train, or help to rebound, those hardworking citizens who have done nothing wrong except to live in an age when human character often seems less important than the pursuit of profit for certain investors or speculators. the fund we are voting for is therefore intended to be a second chance.
in writing. ‒ the aid application concerns 1 079 redundancies, including 829 workers made redundant by fiat auto poland and 250 workers made redundant by suppliers following the fall in european car production. these redundancies represent 1/10 of the total number of unemployed people living in the region according to the polish authorities, which has a strong negative influence on the tychy region of silesia. it is therefore imperative to enable these former workers to return to employment and the egf support of eur 1 259 610 is therefore welcome.
in writing. in this case, the contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is eur 1 610 259 and is intended for the reintegration into the labour market of 777 workers made redundant in the polish region of silesia. the redundancies are linked to the closure of a fiat car production plant in tychy. twenty-one suppliers and downstream producers in the automotive sector were also affected by the closure. the measures implemented and co-financed by the fund are mainly oriented towards training. i have of course voted in favour of this aid and i hope that it will help in part to help these people to cope with the anxiety, the feeling of uncertainty about their future, which comes over us when we lose our jobs in such circumstances.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund to help the 829 workers of fiat auto poland and the 250 people working for 21 subcontractors, all of whom were made redundant. the european automotive industry is in a serious crisis, as evidenced by its market share losses since 2007. in that year, european passenger car production accounted for 32,2% of world production, compared to 23,2% in 2012. between 2011 and 2012, world production increased by 5,3% while at the same time, the eu-27 production decreased by 7%. it seems to me therefore quite legitimate to help these many workers who have been affected by the crisis in the motor vehicle sector to help them get back to work quickly.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund, or more commonly known as the egf, was set up to provide support for workers who become victims of restructuring and global trade. the aim is therefore to train, or help to rebound, those hardworking citizens who have done nothing wrong except to live in an age when human character often seems less important than the pursuit of profit for certain investors or speculators. the fund we are voting for is therefore intended to be a second chance.
in writing. ‒ greece has been experiencing serious economic difficulties for six consecutive years. during the period 2008-2013, the unemployment rate quadrupled and was the highest among eu member states. the redundancies in the odyssefs fokas company are aggravating the economic situation. the regions of central macedonia, attica and thessaly, where the redundancies are taking place, suffer from very high unemployment and a severe shortage of job opportunities. in addition, attica accounts for 43% of greece's gdp. therefore, the closure of enterprises in this region has a negative impact on the whole country. the egf assistance of 1 259 610 is more than necessary to stimulate local growth and provide essential support to the former workers of odyssefs fokas.
in writing. the contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to this dossier is eur 6 444 000. the commission notes that the greek authorities have not provided any evidence that the aid is compatible with the internal market. the greek authorities also seized the opportunity to make 500 neets (not in education, employment or training) benefit from their package of personalised services. this assistance is essential for greece, whose economy is experiencing a severe recession for the sixth consecutive year (2008-2013). i can only support such a request, and hope that greece will finally emerge from the acute crisis in which it finds itself and that its national economy will finally make progress.
in writing. the automobile industry in europe, particularly in poland, has been through some difficult years. more than 1,000 workers were laid off by fiat in southern poland, due to a loss of market share in the automotive sector and the growing popularity of asian cars. these redundancies are directly linked to the major changes in the structure of international trade resulting from globalisation. it is therefore essential to support our workers and to ensure that they have stable and sustainable jobs in the long term. i fully support the €1.26 million from the globalisation adjustment fund, which will be instrumental in giving 777 workers the necessary tools to re-enter the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request by the greek authorities for a contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) following the redundancies in odyssefs fokas s.a. in greece. it is no secret that the greek people are going through a painful period economically and socially. faced with the economic recession between 2008 and 2013, greece's unemployment rate skyrocketed. this increase in unemployment has led to a fall in income, which has in turn led to a fall in consumption. as a result, many greeks have cut their spending, including on items such as clothing and shoes, which led to 551 redundancies at odyssefs fokas. the aid that europe should give to these workers therefore seemed to me to be quite legitimate.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund, or more commonly known as the egf, was set up to provide support for workers who become victims of restructuring and global trade. the aim is therefore to train, or help to rebound, those hardworking citizens who have done nothing wrong except to live in an age when human character often seems less important than the pursuit of profit for certain investors or speculators. the fund we are voting for is therefore intended to be a second chance.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is providing up to eur 25 937 813 for this dossier. this request, submitted by france, concerns redundancies in the aviation sector. indeed, the traditional eu airlines have lost market share to emerging competitors from the middle east and asia. the aim is to help 3 886 employees and to allow the co-financing of measures active on the labour market such as individual job-search assistance, training and retraining, etc. this aid is certainly not commensurate with the tragedy experienced by the workers made redundant, but it is a sign that europe, if it has not prevented it, is sensitive to their plight.
in writing. european airlines are severely affected by globalisation. air france had to lay off 3,886 workers because of intense competition from low-cost carriers, exacerbated by a rise in fuel prices. the financial difficulties of the french carrier are directly linked to a major change in the structure of world trade. that is why i think it is necessary to help the french authorities through the european globalisation adjustment fund, in order to repay the schemes already in place for the reintegration of dismissed workers into the labour market. the european union is thus keeping its promise to combine economic growth and solidarity by allocating 25 million euros to help the airline out of its uncertain economic environment.
in writing. ‒ despite the growth in global air traffic between 2008 and 2012, european airlines are experiencing severe economic disruption with a loss of market share in the face of global competition. in addition, air traffic between europe and the rest of the world grew slowly (2.4% compared with 4.6% of world air traffic). as a result, air france-klm, which is in a difficult financial situation due to high debt and insufficient market capitalisation, has made a number of redundancies. to cope with these job losses, france has requested the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help the 5 213 workers affected. i am aware of the importance of this intervention by the egf for these thousands of workers, and i voted in favour of this request from the french authorities.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund, or more commonly known as the egf, was set up to provide support for workers who become victims of restructuring and global trade. the aim is therefore to train, or help to rebound, those hardworking citizens who have done nothing wrong except to live in an age when human character often seems less important than the pursuit of profit for certain investors or speculators. the fund we are voting for is therefore intended to be a second chance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the candidates presented to the single resolution mechanism (srm) bureau. the mru was initiated following the banking and capital markets crisis that began in 2008. in cases where a bank should fail despite the enhanced supervision put in place through the single supervisory mechanism, the srm will allow for more efficient management through a single resolution board and a single resolution fund funded by the banking sector. the objective is to ensure an orderly resolution of failing banks while minimising the burden that could fall on taxpayers and the real economy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal. the purpose here was to determine the appointment of the chairman, the vice-chairman and the members of the single resolution board.
for the greens/efa group mr president, you are right: this parliament is the parliament of last resort here in europe. if we want to reconcile our citizens with the very idea of european integration, we must - as you have often said - bring europe closer to the citizen. but what does it mean to bring europe closer to the citizen, if not to ensure that our europe works for the majority of our fellow citizens, and not just for a minority? if we are to achieve this, i think we have to follow three lines. the first is social justice. you have told us that you want europe to deserve a triple a social status and we can only agree with you on this. some people will say: 'social policy is not a matter for the european union.' quite the contrary! first of all, let us talk about tax justice: you have already announced some initiatives on this subject which, although not going as far as they should, at least represent progress in the right direction. there is still a lot to be done in terms of tax transparency and these are relatively easy things from a political point of view to implement. we therefore encourage you to do so. we also think - and i did not hear this in your speech or in that of mr timmermans - that, contrary to what was heard this morning in plenary, the economic governance package must be revised to make the social objectives of reducing poverty and inequality and the environmental objectives as binding as the budgetary objectives. the budgetary choices that governments make will thus be choices that reduce inequalities and our ecological footprint, rather than making them worse. we must also review - and i have not heard this either - the directive on the posting of workers and stop using the six-month period to put workers on this continent, especially the most vulnerable, in competition with each other. finally, you must set up a social impact assessment of all the measures, including the budgetary measures you wish to take. the second is environmental sustainability. i keep hearing from the council, from parliament and from the commission that the ecological transition of the economy is a burden. "we'll do it when things get better", they say. yet for europeans, it is both a requirement - we continue to depend on the outside for our energy - and an opportunity! this is how we will put europe at the forefront of the next industrial revolution. the third and final axis concerns the need to remedy the democratic deficit. i've heard some ideas about transparency in lobbying. what i did not hear was that the european semester, the instrument par excellence for the convergence of policies in europe, should be subject to much deeper democratic control, both at the level of the european parliament and the national parliaments. we really need to give legitimacy to the discussions that are currently taking place when country-specific recommendations are being drawn up - recommendations that more often than not are the result of back-room agreements between government representatives, often at civil servant level, and commission representatives, without either being accountable to democratic representation. in fact, measures are taken or imposed without anyone bearing the political cost. at this point, we are no longer in a democracy. i shall end with the question of better regulation. mr timmermans, you have told us that better regulation does not mean no regulation or deregulation. you said some interesting things about the "waste" package, and i'm taking note. i would like to be assured that the air quality measures are no longer being withdrawn. finally, as regards refit, it is a device used, including by a majority of this house - i am a democrat, so i recognize it - to continually weaken the social and environmental protection measures we need if we are to lead, especially the most fragile among us, a decent life. refit cannot be the pretext for a large-scale deregulation operation. in conclusion, i would urge you to show a better sense of customer service. i was very surprised to see that it took five days - five days! - for commissioner hill to respond to the letter sent to him by the banking federations, asking for the withdrawal of the directive on structural reforms in the banking sector. it took him five days to get it back on its own! a real customer service responds instantly to this kind of demand from the big banks; the commissioner should really make a much more enthusiastic lawyer of him than he is now. we are of course opposed to the withdrawal of this directive. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr. woolfe, i'm a simple man of the mind. i'm trained as an engineer, so i tend to look at numbers. i'm a little stupid about that. i have therefore been following the developments in europe since the beginning of the crisis, which is doing both better financially and worse. what do we see? in short, according to the statistical institutes, between 1 and 2% of the population is richer today and lives more comfortably, while the rest of the population lives in the same situation, or even less comfortably or more precariously. i therefore have to say that the policies which are being pursued in europe today, at the instigation of national governments and the union, are policies which benefit a minority. that's a fact!
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. anyway, too much is too much. as a fervent lover of europe and advocate of european cooperation between our member states, but at the same time as a critical and sceptical representative of your concept of european union, i was actually pleased with the commission's intention to limit its legislative priorities and initiatives. i am an active waste recycler myself, for example, and i have always supported flemish initiatives in this direction as much as possible as an active citizen and also as a politician. but the advantage of a european approach in this area seems to me to be quite unclear and undesirable and in any case superfluous. more can be achieved through voluntary agreements, possibly stimulated by trade agreements. the energy you put into a coercive system towards countries that are unwilling or unable to follow will lead to misunderstanding and cost more money than anything else. the advantage of the debate on the evaluation you are now making is that it once again shows the wide and extensive powers of the european commission. i do not think it is logical that legislation should be drawn up in that bureaucratic commission, nor that legislation should be drawn up on top of and apart from the member states on so many issues as are now on the table. it has all gone too far and gone too far and the only reason i could recommend you not to tamper with your powers and your piles of legislation would be - ironically - because those who want to do everything can end up doing nothing. after all, that might be the best thing.
i have to say something first, mr president and vice-president of the committee on budgets. since the commission was set up some time ago, when it comes to environmental legislation, it is as if it were a tedious piece of legislation that stands in the way of business, of people, as if it were red tape. well, i'd like to convince you, if i had to, that nothing less is true. good legislation we have on water, on air, on chemicals, has led to healthier environments in europe, more jobs and also much more innovation in our economy. let us continue along that road. last week, we were in lima with some colleagues and the leaked document really came as a cold shower. we tried in lima - with difficulty, of course, and you know the outcome - to make progress on the global scale in the fight against global warming. and then it is as if in brussels, thousands of kilometres away, the switch is actually backwards at that moment! now, i have listened carefully, i want to be optimistic and i want us to support that from our group and possibly from parliament as well. i have heard that new proposals are being worked on on the circular economy and on air quality or that amendments are being made to existing proposals. so they're not off the table: in 2015, a new proposal on circular economy will be launched and a proposal, amended or not after some negotiations, on air quality. it's important that we give that support, but i'll do it on that condition. the ambitious objectives on the circular economy and air quality must not be lowered and the proposals must be in place by 2015 so that this parliament and the council can get to work to make sure that our economy is also becoming truly more sustainable.
mr president, you said that the commission should concentrate on the essentials. social protection is for me a fundamental right in europe. in your work programme you suggest that the question of social dumping must be dealt with in the context of labour mobility and that the solution would be to combat abuses. but, commissioners, social dumping is more than that: it is a direct attack on our european social system. it is the competition between workers, in which none of these workers win. the most protected workers are left unemployed, while the least protected workers are exploited. smes are not winners either. the smes that are trying to respect workers' rights in europe are now bankrupt. mr juncker, neither you nor i were elected to destroy the rights of workers or the fabric of smes in europe. the priority must therefore be, of course, not only the revision of the directive on the posting of workers, but also all the tools we have to ensure that social protection in europe is indeed a priority. the second point concerns maternity leave. we've already discussed this. i am glad to see that the commission is finally putting this issue on the agenda and that the council is taking its responsibilities. i would add that six months is not a long time. a pregnancy usually lasts nine months. i hope you'll give us time to come to a solution.
mr president, it is only after two hours of debate that we are talking about agriculture - 38% of the european budget. better regulation is what the commission has already started to do, in particular by simplifying a dossier on the distribution of fresh fruit and vegetables and milk in schools, so that it is more accessible and also includes educational measures around food. it's the most important thing. as rapporteur for parliament, i can tell you that the report has been tabled and is already being translated. it would have been a shame to take it off. the commission apparently intends to maintain it and i would like to have clarification on this. the same applies to the organic farming regulation: organic producers are calling for more protection against the 'fake organic' and the importation of 30% of organic consumption in europe. the sector is asking for protection. i imagine the commission will not withdraw its draft rules. what about the seeds? it's one of our expectations, in a case we've been putting off. what is the commission's intention in this respect? it would be essential to be able to give a clear signal to the agricultural sector, which is in great need of it today.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of the negotiations, the european parliament, through the committee on budgets, set itself three objectives. the first objective was to stabilise - if not reduce - the worrying, if not unsustainable, level of unpaid bills: 5 billion in 2010, almost 25 billion at the end of 2014. so the first priority is to stabilize the arrears. the second objective was to settle the dispute between us and the council - and the council alone, for that matter - concerning the budgetary status of the special instruments, particularly for payments. the third and most important objective was to agree with the other two institutions on the urgency of implementing a plan to reduce the amount of unpaid invoices to a sustainable level. what can we say now, after the long weeks of negotiations we have had? i would point out that the term 'negotiation' is a bit of a misnomer, since at most meetings we have had to hear the council say that it was unfortunately unable to reach a common position. as regards the balance sheet and, first of all, payment appropriations, the agreement provides for an additional fresh money of 3.529 billion for the year 2014 - and for 2014 alone - or two thirds of what we originally demanded. i would point out that we had committed ourselves to asking what the commission considered necessary namely 4.7 billion in 2014 to avoid a deterioration in the situation as regards the amount of unpaid invoices. as regards the budgetary status of the special instruments, the dispute between the council's position on the one hand and that of the european parliament and the commission on the other has not been settled. although a temporary solution, apparently neutral, was adopted for eur 350 million of unused margin appropriations, the substantive question was not settled. as regards the plan to pay off the increasing amount of unpaid invoices, which was essential for us, an agreement was reached, which i consider to be a very positive one. the commission will present an updated assessment of the overall amount of arrears and propose alternative scenarios in march 2015. the three institutions will commit themselves to implementing a plan. and i will quote this sentence, which sums up the commitment we are asking the council to solemnly formalize before us: 'this plan will be validated by the three institutions in good time before the presentation of the draft budget for 2016'. in short, overall, we think that the agreement reached between the two arms of the budgetary authority is acceptable and deserves our support, as the committee on budgets did on monday evening by a very large majority. that being said, madam president, i cannot ignore a few small mediocrity: 30 million here, 11 million there, in terms of redeployment, which the council has taken the honour of granting to one or the other of the recalcitrant member states. i do not think that mediocrity makes its authors great. i cannot forget the council's obsession with granting requests from one or another member state to extend the supplement due under the revaluation of their gni, which it had accepted. we have a text on this subject, which i am co-rapporteur with mr lewandowski; i will leave it to him to table this text, which i will vote for with no eyebrows because it is part of the agreement, whatever my thoughts on the verbal gestures of the honourable prime minister which are the cause of this misstep. i have a lot more to say, madam president, but i will save it for the last two minutes.
the rapporteur. mr president, madam commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow the page will be turned, at any rate for 2014-2015, and there is no point in regretting. besides, regrets are not a policy. i think the best thing to do now is to look to the future. i think there are three things that are important for the future. as far as the immediate future is concerned, we have reached an agreement between the three institutions on the plan for the settlement of arrears within the deadlines which have been set. we will therefore ensure that this plan for the clearance of accounts becomes a reality and that all the institutions respect their commitments. in the medium term, several speakers have said so, but it is obvious: the present system is gradually coming to a standstill and will lead to a deadlock, since it is based on the contributions of the member states, drawn from their national budgets. the question of own resources is going to become a political emergency. we can feel that if we continue with the current logic, all the member states will become little margaret thatcher's, demanding their money back, and gradually this will lead to a total impasse. i am convinced that if we continue with the current logic, the support of the citizens for the european budget will not increase in the coming years. the expenditure and means of payment are mainly passed through intermediary institutions, which forget to tell the citizens that the money they receive comes from the european institutions. i am convinced that if we want to legitimize the european budget in the eyes of public opinion in the future, we must find a way - not for now, but it will be necessary - to establish a direct link, so that the european citizen perceives the effort being made in common for the benefit of all. i would like to thank the delegation from the european parliament. it was a great experience, under the leadership of our president, and i am proud to have worked with the colleagues, whom i would like to thank again.
with all my sympathy for the moldovan people, but colleagues, please stop this. the enlargement of the european union and all the sneaky decision-making in that direction, as is happening here today with moldova, must stop. your voters don't agree with this, and certainly not your own farmers, but you're going ahead. be honest with yourself. looking ahead, the union's strategic vision for the union's eastern borders is simply a catastrophe. so, economically, security-wise and immigration-wise, further integration of moldova is not in the interests of the people we represent here, the citizens of the european union. in other words, seek cooperation with this quasi-developing country without any commitments, guarantee its independence, but stop moldova's stealthy integration into the european union.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i want in fact to direct my words not to the commission but to the council because, let us be honest, the commission has presented an ambitious programme. what we need now is an ambitious response from the council on thursday and friday. and i have to tell you, mr della vedova, that i have seen the draft conclusions: i know about cola light, you know what that is? well i would say that these are council light. if these are the council conclusions for tomorrow and the day after, it seems like – not zero but near to zero, mr lamberts – and my impression when i read them is that a number of people in the european council are not even aware that europe is in crisis. it is all about ʽwe call forʼ, ʽwe supportʼ, ʽwe inviteʼ, ʽwe callʼ, it is a standing invitation to participate by the council. i want to be very precise. what you need to do is take key decisions on a number of points that will help the commission go forward with their ambitious programme and i have seven points to make. the first is that you have to decide with the 28 member states to enter into the guarantee scheme of the fund. that is a decision to take – not to invite the countries to participate, maybe next year. no! take the decision: the 28 member states enter the guarantee scheme. that is the decision to take and you do not need to change the stability pact for that, you can do that under the rules in force today. secondly, to help the fund by saying, maybe at national level, that ok, national states should not put taxation on the income of that fund, so that not just institutional investors but also normal citizens, european citizens, can invest in the future of europe. three, you have to decide on conditionality. you have to decide with the european council tomorrow that the first investments are going to go to those countries which are carrying out positive structural reforms, as a positive incentive to carry out these reforms. the fourth point: the telecoms package. you are asking how we are going to emerge from the crisis? we have a council. decide on the telecoms package! it has been on the table of the council for months already and the only thing you are doing is going backwards: not getting rid of the roaming charges, not in fact establishing net neutrality, not in fact harmonising spectrum policy too. decide on this! this is a package that has already been more than a year on your table, so that you can create a digital market in europe. the fifth thing to decide: a second package on digital, because we need as fast as possible one regulator in the digital market. half of the countries in europe still cannot use spotify, cannot use netflix, because we do not have one regulator and we do not have one copyright regime. next thing, take the decision finally to launch the energy community. take that decision so that the commission is backed by this council to do the legislative work. and then finally: mr kamall was talking about this, it is fine that mr kamall has now discovered the advantages of a unified europe; ok we are on the right track now because he has talked about capital markets. yes indeed, we do not have one credit market, we do not have one mortgage market in europe. if you have an asset in one country you cannot use it to have credit in another country from a financial institution. so those are the decisions that you have to take. not these fake conclusions that we always see after a european council. if we see how deep this crisis is, if we see the lack of investment that we have seen since the outbreak of the crisis in 2008, what i expect from the council, not only from the italian presidency but from the 28 member states, is that now for the first time they take firm decisions to help this commission and to help us emerge from this crisis in the european union. that is your task and my request to the president of the council – i know that you are there, mr president, you are always invited at the beginning of this european council – is that you spread this key message tomorrow when you start your speech. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – in my proposals and in the commission proposal it is not state money that is invested in this project: it is private money that is invested in this project. so you did not even understand the commission proposal. the only thing that the european investment bank is doing, that the european budget is doing and that the member states are doing is guaranteeing a first hit if one of these investments goes in the wrong direction. that is the only thing, and that is also needed, because everybody – all the institutional investors – agree on one thing, which is that it is the cooperation between the guarantees of the state and the european investment bank on the one hand and private money on the other hand that can get us out of the crisis. so it is not public money at all! i am for private money. i am a liberal!
i would like to return to the situation in ukraine. we are pleased that the council is fully committed to further implementing the association agreement. it would be good, moreover, if all the member states were called upon to ratify that agreement as soon as possible. the country is embroiled in a war, it must safeguard its sovereignty and at the same time make the profound reforms that the people have clearly demanded. that's a very difficult task. ukraine needs our help. we are seeing the sanctions against the putin regime have started to work. we must never accept the illegal annexation of crimea and in this connection i have a very specific question. at a hearing on the human rights situation in crimea recently held in the european parliament in brussels, the issue of russian passports being issued, or rather imposed, on the inhabitants of crimea was also raised. can we just recognize these passports? because that would imply an acknowledgement of that annexation. is there any concrete consideration of this?
president, president of the council and president of the commission, i should like to begin by reading to you the title of an article in today's newspaper: "the eu wasted millions on airports". this is the result of a report by the court of auditors, which includes five airports, including one in italy, but also in greece, spain and poland. 666 million was invested in those airports and that turns out to be pretty pointless. it is about investments in airports that were not really needed, that were too close together, that are not profitable. why do i say that? firstly, because, of course, people who really have a heart for europe are always terribly embarrassed to read about it in the newspapers. i'm not saying that because i don't think we should invest. we need to invest. the socialist and democratic group is very much in favour of investment policy and wants to give it a serious boost. we also ask the council to do more, to invest more, but - and that is my message - not in any way. not in some prestige project of some minister or of some member state, but in the future. let us use criteria, criteria that have to do with sustainability and jobs, and let us prepare for the future. many have said it before, but let's do it anyway: investing in the digital agenda, human capital and the energy union. because these are investments that prepare the future, that create jobs and therefore make sense. so no prestige projects by ministers and member states that lead to nothing.
in writing. the european council must address the crucial issue of the juncker recovery plan. the lack of ambition of this plan was unfortunately confirmed a few days ago by the disappointing figures for long-term investments proposed by the ecb to encourage private investment. despite extremely favourable conditions, only 219 billion was borrowed, while the ecb wanted to reach 400 billion. this is perhaps a definitive demonstration of the need to encourage public investment in the recovery plan and job creation and thus to get out of austerity which solves nothing socially and economically. there are several important steps that can be taken in this direction. first, to finance this investment on very favourable terms. secondly, to neutralise the impact of productive public investment in the valuation of debt. but here we must go further than the immunization of investments which would pass through the european fund for strategic investments. finally, in the interests of consistency, the obstacles to such public investment, such as the strict application of the accounting standard sec2010, will have to be addressed. what is the logic of wanting to encourage public participation and, on the other hand, of imposing an accounting standard which will prevent many local and regional actors from developing their investment capacity?
in writing. the main item on the agenda of this council is the commission's investment plan. the commission will present the annual growth review, which lays the foundations for the 2015 european semester. the council will also discuss the follow-up to the strategic agenda adopted at the june european council. as far as the investment plan is concerned, we continue to have serious doubts about it. we were promised 300 billion, here's a little more than 15 on the table. beyond the publicity effect which could be used against the commission but also against the european institutions in general, if this money is not found, there will be no stimulus. finally, the holding of this council is a further opportunity for me to stress the commission's lack of transparency in the preparation of its agenda. it is not clear which cases have been excluded and what the motives behind them are. one of my reports, for example, proposes merging two directives and making the important financial flows for education and agriculture more efficient. the matter is already amended and ready for voting: its withdrawal would be ridiculous.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i want to thank those who have cooperated in bringing forward this resolution, which saw a big majority of more than 500. i think now is not the time to start giving individual interpretations about this resolution. what is important is that this parliament has finally taken a position. it gives a clear signal to the outside world that europe is back in this important matter. secondly, the most important thing about this resolution is that it gives a clear mandate to ms mogherini to go forward with matters.
in writing. for the republic of moldova, the eu introduced so-called autonomous trade preferences for the first time in 2008, eliminating all remaining customs duties on commercial goods from moldova and improving access to the eu market for agricultural products from moldova. in recent years, the eu and moldova have further intensified their political and economic relations, notably through the conclusion of an association agreement. unfortunately, in response to this enhanced cooperation, russia imposed an import ban on agricultural products from moldova, which has significantly weakened the moldovan economy. i therefore welcome all the more the fact that, as a gesture of solidarity, the eu has added three new duty-free tariff quotas for fresh apples, fresh table grapes and fresh plums to the existing tariff quotas. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to moldova, in particular through the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to moldova.
in writing. moldovan apple, grape and plum producers have suffered serious losses due to the russian embargo on moldovan agricultural products imposed by russia to put pressure on the country in the face of a rapprochement with the eu. the ban is damaging to moldova's economy, with russia as its second largest trading partner and the horticultural sector employing almost 10% of the working population. in this emergency situation, we have agreed to temporarily open liberalized access to moldovan fruit imports in order to limit the economic impact and to meet immediate needs by providing a viable market for moldovan exports. farmers are suffering the consequences of a political conflict that is beyond them. we owe ourselves compensation for the damage suffered by our neighbourhood partners. we have strengthened our political and economic ties with moldova in recent years, and it is our duty to support it financially and through targeted actions so that it is not penalized.
in writing. the agricultural sector accounts for about 40% of the moldovan economy and the horticultural sector is a significant part of it, employing some 250 000 people who live mainly in rural areas and cultivate relatively small family plots. however, following the signature of the eu-moldova association agreement on 27 june 2014, russia has banned the import of fruit from moldova. officially for... plant health reasons. under the free trade agreement with moldova, the european union has committed itself to liberalising market access for a number of fresh fruit and vegetables within certain volumes. in view of the serious difficulties that moldova is facing at the moment, i have therefore supported the proposal to temporarily increase its access to the european market for imports. the proposed preferences would bring immediate benefits and relief to the moldovan economy, while having a very limited impact on the union market.
in writing. we voted in favour of the trade agreement with moldova. i would like to point out, however, that it was strange to include a chapter on fruit when we are going through a war with russia, one of the direct consequences of which is the difficulty of getting fruit under embargo. however, it is very likely that the additional volumes of these three products entering the european market will be mostly absorbed by the romanian market, given the cultural and geographical proximity of the two countries, the similarities between their agricultural markets in terms of packaging and packaging of products, as well as the current market situation.
in writing. negotiations with ecuador for its accession to the trade agreement between the union, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, were concluded on 17 july 2014. in addition, on 1 january 2015, ecuador is expected to lose its gsp+ status following an amendment to the relevant european regulation. in order to avoid any unnecessary disruption of trade pending the application of this free trade agreement, the commission adopted on 1 october 2014 a proposal ensuring that the customs duties applied on the date of initialling of the protocol of accession of ecuador to the free trade agreement linking the union to colombia and peru will not increase and that no new customs duties will be imposed on products originating in ecuador. the commission wants the regulation to apply from 1 january 2015 and has in particular wanted to apply a principle of reciprocity. i have approved the commission's proposal.
in writing. i voted in favour of the multilateral trade agreement which will establish a new legal framework for trade relations between ecuador and the union. we must nevertheless remain vigilant about the human aspect and ensure that the social and environmental aspects of such agreements are guaranteed.
in writing. the union is currently extremely in arrears. for cohesion policy alone, over €23 billion in invoices were unpaid at the end of 2013. in terms of credibility, it is therefore important to use all the flexibility mechanisms that can reduce these arrears. the mobilisation of the contingency margin for the 2014 financial year generates over eur 3 billion in payment appropriations. this is not likely to solve the problem in the long term but limits the increase in invoices to be paid carried over to the following financial year.
in writing. i approved the mobilisation of the contingency margin for the financial year 2014 as presented by mr deprez and therefore voted in favour of his proposal.
in writing. the author of the proposal explained to us meps his reasons for approving the amendment in plenary debate at the december part-session in strasbourg. i therefore voted in favour of the text on the council position on draft amending budget no 3/2014 of the european union for the financial year 2014, section iii commission.
in writing. the author of the proposal explained to us meps his reasons for approving the amendment in plenary debate at the december part-session in strasbourg. i therefore voted in favour of the text on the council position on draft amending budget no 4/2014 of the european union for the financial year 2014, section iii commission.
in writing. i have approved the proposal to allocate almost €49 million in total through the european union solidarity fund to italy (floods in sardinia in november 2013), greece (earthquake in cephalonia) and slovenia and croatia affected by hailstorms and floods in late january and early february 2014.
in writing. i voted in favour of the commission's proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for italy (sardinia), which was hit by floods in november 2013, greece (cephalonia), which was hit by an earthquake, slovenia, which was hit by ice storms, and croatia, which was hit by the same ice storms followed by floods in late january and early february 2014. it is essential to play the solidarity card in such circumstances.
in writing. the amount of eur 49 million needed to cover the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund following the floods in sardinia in november 2013, an earthquake in kefalonia in greece, ice storms in slovenia and the same ice storms followed by floods in croatia at the end of january and the beginning of february 2014 should be entered in the 2014 budget as commitment appropriations and in the 2015 budget as payment appropriations.
in writing. the european union solidarity fund was set up to respond to major natural disasters and to express the european union's solidarity with the affected regions. in 2013 and 2014, italy, greece, slovenia and croatia were affected by unusual regional or major natural disasters. of course, some of the citizens of these countries have been affected by these disasters. that is why i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to help these populations in need. solidarity must be at the heart of the european project!
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal by mr deprez, presented during the debate in plenary in december 2014. i therefore voted in favour of the text on the council position on draft amending budget no 5/2014 of the european union for the financial year 2014, section iii commission.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal by mr deprez, presented during the debate in plenary in december 2014. i therefore voted in favour of the text on the council position on draft amending budget no 6/2014 of the european union for the financial year 2014, section iii commission.
in writing. the european union solidarity fund was created to provide solidarity aid in the event of major natural disasters. the reason for this was the severe floods in central europe in the summer of 2002. since then, the fund has been used in many disaster situations and is thus one of the most important eu aid to the affected population within the eu's field of action. the multiannual financial framework of the eu for the period 2014-2020 allows the mobilisation of the fund within an annual expenditure ceiling of eur 500 million. following floods in may and june 2014, serbia, croatia and bulgaria have applied for such a contribution from the fund. i therefore welcome the fact that the adoption of the decision by the european parliament will provide these countries with almost eur 80 million from the european union solidarity fund to help them deal with the consequences of the floods.
in writing. the proposal, which i supported, aims to approve the intervention of the european union solidarity fund in serbia, croatia and bulgaria following very heavy floods in may and june 2014 which caused extensive damage to public infrastructure and resulted in damage to thousands of families. nearly eur 80 million has been mobilised.
in writing. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund following requests for assistance from serbia, croatia and bulgaria concerning floods in 2014. the damage caused by these floods was numerous and terrible: massive destruction of public and private infrastructure, damage to hundreds of thousands of households, destruction of agricultural crops, etc. both the economy and the citizens of these countries have been hit hard by these floods! this is why it was crucial to mobilise the european union solidarity fund to help these countries and their citizens.
in writing. the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for serbia and croatia affected by floods in may 2014 and bulgaria affected by floods in june 2014, on the basis of point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013. the purpose of the solidarity fund is to help european citizens who are victims of adverse extraordinary circumstances. in may 2014, severe weather affected large parts of the republic of serbia and to a lesser extent croatia, causing the worst flooding in recorded history, causing massive destruction of public and private infrastructure and damaging hundreds of thousands of households. a month later, heavy and violent rains exceeding four times the monthly climate averages fell on parts of the republic of bulgaria, causing severe flooding and significant disruption.
in writing. the amount of eur 80 million needed to mobilise the european union solidarity fund following the floods in serbia and croatia in may 2014 and in bulgaria in june 2014 is entered in the budget for 2014 as commitment appropriations and in the budget for 2015 as payment appropriations.
in writing. in order to mobilise the european union solidarity fund following the requests for assistance from serbia, croatia and bulgaria concerning the floods that affected those countries in 2014, it was important to vote on this draft amending budget. remember that! the damage caused by these floods was numerous and terrible: massive destruction of public and private infrastructure, damage to hundreds of thousands of households, destruction of agricultural crops, etc. both the economy and the citizens of these countries have been hit hard by these floods! it was therefore crucial to allocate part of the european budget through the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to help them.
in writing. the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for serbia and croatia affected by floods in may 2014 and bulgaria affected by floods in june 2014, on the basis of point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013. in may 2014, severe weather affected large parts of the republic of serbia and to a lesser extent croatia, causing the worst flooding in recorded history, causing massive destruction of public and private infrastructure and damaging hundreds of thousands of households. a month later, heavy and violent rains exceeding four times the monthly climate averages fell on parts of the republic of bulgaria, causing severe flooding and significant disruption.
in writing. this draft amending budget (pbr) no 8/2014 aims to enter in the 2014 budget the surplus of the 2013 financial year, amounting to just over one billion euros, the bulk of which comes from fines and late payment interest. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european union agency for fundamental rights (the 'agency') and its activities in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text on the council position on draft amending budget no 8/2014 of the european union for the financial year 2014, section iii commission. the aim is to budget the 2013 surplus of eur 1 005 million in accordance with article 18 of the financial regulation, as presented by the commission, and the council's position thereon.
in writing. i voted in favour of my colleague's text. however, i would like to stress that i regret that the question of postponing the adjustment of national contributions has taken precedence in the council over the desire to have a negotiating position for the budgets for the financial years 2014 and 2015, which was only defined on the last day of the 21-day conciliation period provided for in article 314 of the tfeu, which left the conciliation committee unable to reach an agreement.
in writing. the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was created to provide solidarity aid in the event of major natural disasters. the reason for this was the severe floods in central europe in the summer of 2002. since then, the fund has been used in many disaster situations and is thus one of the most important eu aid to the affected population within the eu's field of action. the multiannual financial framework of the eu for the period 2014-2020 allows the mobilisation of the fund within an annual expenditure ceiling of eur 500 million. however, in some circumstances, member states may need financial assistance in the event of a disaster more quickly than is possible under the normal procedure, which is why the possibility has been created to make an advance payment at the request of the member state concerned shortly after the commission has been asked to contribute from the fund. i therefore welcome the fact that the adoption of the decision by the european parliament will provide eur 50 million in advances and related appropriations for the financial year 2015.
in writing. the european union solidarity fund is intended to respond to major natural disasters and to express the community's solidarity with the european regions affected. it has an annual ceiling of eur 500 million. the present proposal for a decision, which i supported, aims to mobilise for the financial year 2015 an amount of eur 50 million in commitments and payments for the payment of advances under the fund in case of emergency. the advance may not exceed 10% of the amount of the financial contribution provided for (and in no case shall it exceed eur 30 million).
in writing. the severity and complexity of natural disasters in europe have increased rapidly and inevitably in recent years, creating considerable human and material damage in some regions. the economic, social and environmental damage caused by these disasters cannot go unaddressed. by approving the mobilisation of the solidarity fund of eur 50 million to meet the most urgent needs, we are honouring our commitments and expressing our solidarity with the people of the disaster-stricken regions of the eu and also with the member states affected by these disasters. there is a real challenge for the eu to coordinate and strengthen its instruments so that it can have viable means to respond effectively to these cross-border disasters.
in writing. in the context of the european union solidarity fund, i voted in favour of the entry in the 2015 budget of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations. the decision is intended to allow for the granting of advances which will have to be paid more quickly and efficiently in the event of a natural disaster next year. the european union solidarity fund is intended to help in the event of major natural disasters and to express solidarity with the regions affected. it therefore seemed important to me to enable the fund to provide assistance more quickly to citizens affected by such a tragedy.
in writing. one of the union's core values must be solidarity! without solidarity, there is no europe. the european union solidarity fund is one of the important instruments. it is intended to combat large-scale natural disasters and to express the community's solidarity with the european regions affected. the fund shall be able to provide financial assistance to member states and acceding countries in the event of a major natural disaster if the direct damage caused by the disaster exceeds eur 3 000 000 000 in 2011 prices or 0,6% of gross national income (gni), whichever is the lower.
in writing. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to finance the additional allocation for structural fund programmes for cyprus, up to eur 83 260 000. this mobilisation of the flexibility instrument will make it possible to grant an additional allocation of eur 100 000 000 to the country.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument, in accordance with point 12 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management. i would like to emphasize the excellent work done by my colleague, mr eider gardiazabal rubial, on this matter.
in writing. the european parliament has approved by a very large majority the 2015 budget of the european union and the bailout of the 2014 budget. the 2015 budget will now amount to eur 145,3 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 141,2 billion in payment appropriations (it should be noted that the overall level of commitment appropriations represents an increase of 1,6% compared to the 2014 budget and exceeds the council's initial position by eur 1,2 billion). i am also particularly pleased that 95 million has been added to horizon 2020, cosme, erasmus and humanitarian aid, and that thanks to the new revenue earmarked for the common agricultural policy, a solution has been found to finance emergency measures of up to eur 273.6 million in response to the russian embargo on food imports, without the reserve for crises in the agricultural sector being mobilised in the first place. however, it should be noted that while this will allow the commission to address the most urgent payment needs in 2014, the level of additional payment appropriations in the 2014 budget will not be sufficient to stop the recurring snowball effect of unpaid invoices in 2015.
in writing. according to the provisions of the treaties, draft amendments must receive the votes of a majority of the members of the european parliament to be adopted. on the advice of my colleagues in the budg committee, i voted in favour of:- the draft amendments to the appropriations in section iii of the draft general budget 2015 as regards the commission;- the draft amendments to sections i, ii, iv, v, vi, vii, viii, ix and x of the draft general budget 2015 as regards the european parliament, the council, the court of justice, the court of auditors, the economic and social committee, the committee of the regions, the european ombudsman, the european data protection supervisor and the european external action service.
in writing. the budget of the european union sets out its revenue and expenditure and is adopted jointly by parliament and the council each year on a proposal from the commission. some 90% of the funds are returned to the member states, mainly in the form of regional aid and payments to farmers. for 2015, the compromise previously negotiated with the council includes expenditure of eur 141,21 billion and supplementary budgets of eur 4,25 billion to continue financing the projects already decided in 2014. i particularly welcome the fact that this budget, adopted with moderation and responsibility in a time of tight cash, provides additional funds for small and mediumsized enterprises, educational programmes and humanitarian aid, among other things. the fact that the 2015 eu budget is now in place also means that the new year does not have to start with an emergency budget and new programmes can start on schedule.
in writing. i have approved the draft budget for 2015. it includes, it should be stressed, increases in appropriations for european youth exchange programmes (erasmus+), research and innovation (horizon 2020), humanitarian aid and aid for refugees. an additional 4.7 billion in means of payment was also released to cover some of the backlog of payments. unfortunately, this will not be enough to solve the union's payments crisis. in this connection, the commission and the member states have committed themselves to presenting a plan in the spring to clear up the unpaid invoices. we'll have to be very careful there.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of the new general budget for the financial year 2015 because i believe a good balance has been achieved. from the outset of these negotiations, i was convinced we should not be making savings in the strategic sectors of heading 1a that are need to create jobs and growth. these issues deal with r&d, competitiveness, the connecting europe facility and supporting measure for smes. the agreement reached is a significant improvement to the start of the negotiations, and since the sectors outlined above are largely being safeguarded i can give my consent to this text.
in writing. after a showdown between the european parliament and the member states, an agreement was reached on the eu budget for 2015 and the bailout of the 2014 budget. we have obtained an increase in the budget allocated for the 2015 period and a partial refund of the unpaid invoices. the latter was a major element of discord. we were advocating the full allocation of the additional revenue from fines imposed on companies which did not respect the competition law of the european union. in the face of the reluctance of the member states, an agreement was reached to allocate only part of this envelope. i deeply regret this, given that these unpaid invoices are currently affecting businesses and local authorities who are waiting for payment. the agreement nevertheless stabilizes the number of unpaid invoices. it is imperative to open up the field of the european union's own resources. only these will ensure the long-term stability of european finances.
in writing. the european parliament has approved by a very large majority the 2015 budget of the european union and the bailout of the 2014 budget. the 2015 budget will now amount to eur 145,3 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 141,2 billion in payment appropriations (it should be noted that the overall level of commitment appropriations represents an increase of 1,6% compared to the 2014 budget and exceeds the council's initial position by eur 1,2 billion). i am also particularly pleased that 95 million has been added to horizon 2020, cosme, erasmus and humanitarian aid, and that, thanks to the new revenue earmarked for the common agricultural policy, a solution has been found to finance emergency measures of up to eur 273.6 million in response to the russian embargo on food imports, without mobilising the reserve for crises in the agricultural sector from the outset. however, it should be noted that while this will allow the commission to address the most urgent payment needs in 2014, the level of additional payment appropriations in the 2014 budget will not be sufficient to stop the recurring snowball effect of unpaid invoices in 2015.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text, on the advice of the budget experts in my political group. the european parliament stresses that, while enabling the commission to address the most urgent payment needs in 2014, the level of additional payment appropriations in the 2014 budget will not be sufficient to stop the recurring snowball effect of unpaid invoices in 2015. it therefore draws attention to the joint declaration on a payment schedule accompanying the agreement on the 2014 and 2015 budgets.
in writing. the list of serious infringements which may lead to the loss of a licence for transporters proposed by the commission does not address the problem of social dumping. however, within the eu we still have to deal with rogue transport companies, often mail coach companies, who flout social legislation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat social dumping, and it is therefore important that the commission should be able to take action to combat this problem. it is important that the commission comes forward with a new proposal quickly so that we can start the fight against social abuses as soon as possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, which aims to amend or supplement regulation (ec) no 1071/2009 of the european parliament and of the council as regards the classification of serious infringements of union rules which may damage the reputation of road hauliers, and amends annex iii to directive 2006/22/ec of the european parliament and of the council.
in writing. the implementation of the fuel quality directive is a sensitive issue, which has been dragging on for a number of years. the 2020 deadline is getting closer and closer. so a solution is urgent. it is clear that there is no perfect solution, but the proposal put forward by the european commission and agreed with the member states is undeniably a step forward. the aim is to reduce the carbon content of road transport fuels by 6% by 2020. the commission is convinced that this objective will be achieved on the basis of the text before it. the proposal also provides for greater transparency and traceability by introducing specific reporting requirements for imports of crude oil, which is a new development. the commission proposal seems to us to be feasible, realistic and balanced. the n-va therefore voted against the objection of the environment committee and thus supported the proposal of the european commission. this does not mean that the n-va does not understand some of the concerns about the proposal, but the overall balance is rather positive.
in writing. the best is the enemy of the good: this is how one could sum up the attempt by some meps in the environment committee to change the calculation method to reduce co2 emissions in transport. the file is technical, but the answer is political: do we want to call into question the five years of work done by the european commission with the experts to put in place a calculation method as provided for in the 1998 fuel quality directive? my answer this afternoon, as well as that of 325 other members of the european parliament, is no. for at least three reasons:- it is risky to distinguish co2 emissions according to the origin of the oil used to manufacture fuels;- the calculation method proposed by the commission meets the target of reducing co2 emissions from transport by 6% by 2020. and the argument of european energy security is important. if we rejected the commission's proposal, we would have undermined the predictability of investment in the sensitive sector of the fuel industry. europe needs to ensure secure energy supply channels.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the commission to withdraw its proposal for a council directive and to submit a new proposal based on the requirement to report emissions according to default average values of greenhouse gas (ghg) emission intensity, broken down by types of feedstock for petrol and diesel fuel, while allowing suppliers to report actual values. the commission's text seemed to me to be too weak and unacceptable because, moreover, the proposed method for calculating the carbon intensity of the different types of road fuels did not encourage cleaner fuels and put the extremely polluting tar sands and conventional crude oil on the same footing. i also felt that the method of calculating ghg emissions from fuels and other forms of energy from non-biological sources should be further studied to take account of the expected increase in the use of fuels with high ghg emission intensity and fuels derived from other commodities in the future.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a council directive laying down the calculation methods and reporting requirements under directive 98/70/ec of the european parliament and of the council relating to the quality of petrol and diesel fuels. i am very sorry to see that this proposal has been rejected because once again some elected representatives have preferred to defend their own interests rather than the general interest.
in writing. i voted in favour of the commission delegated regulation (eu) establishing a discard plan for the baltic sea. i have also added a broader question on zero-waste and its implementation.
in writing. during the last campaign for the european elections on 25 may, the mr had pledged to make a difference in the european parliament by its action in favour of the revival of industrial sectors in difficulty, such as the steel industry. a liberal and social approach dictated by the need for results and not a purely protectionist approach which has shown its limits for more than 20 years. the reality is twofold: worrying if we consider the 60 000 jobs lost in the steel sector since 2007, promising if we consider that the steel sector represents 350 000 direct jobs and several million subcontractors in the european union. we know that the european industry is in dire need of a strong and competitive steel sector. the union is the world's second largest steel producer, accounting for 11% of total production. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment.
in writing. i voted in favour of the commission delegated regulation of 10 october 2014 supplementing directive 2009/138/ec of the european parliament and of the council on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance (solvency ii) and i, like my colleagues, have endorsed the annexes thereto.
in writing. faced with new security challenges, europe must adapt its responses. the use of technologies and the rise of radicalisation leading to terrorism and violence require ambitious european responses in which the european union must play a leading role. it is therefore essential that it should review its internal security strategy. it must enable it to lay the foundations for its own security thinking which embraces the issues at both local and international level. it must also be a further step towards consolidating the european union's area of security and justice. however, it is imperative that the security component be fully accompanied by a counterpart based on scrupulous respect for the charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which renews the european union's internal security strategy (iss) for the next four years. since the introduction of the current ssi, adopted in december 2003, new threats to security in europe and elsewhere have emerged, which now require a different political response. in fact, these security threats have become more varied, more international, more heterogeneous and more asymmetrical, requiring increased cooperation between different countries. it is also necessary to strengthen operational cooperation between member states and to this end to adopt more confidence-building measures. i am still disappointed, however, that there is no real legal dimension to the ssi. in the spirit of the stockholm programme, more should be done to strengthen mutual trust by the progressive development of a european judicial culture, to promote european cooperation and regulation in this field and to strengthen judicial cooperation in criminal matters.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text. i welcome the development of a new ssi for the next four years. since the introduction of the current ssi, new security threats have emerged and others call for a different policy response. we also reaffirm that with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the charter of fundamental rights has been incorporated into union law. i sincerely believe that the current ssi needs to be fully evaluated, updated and reorganised.
my party, the nva, has supported this resolution. we have two priorities when it comes to the debate on palestine as a state, a debate too complex to be conducted in black-and-white times: the european union is not a party to the gatt, but a party to the gatt. the road to a palestinian state is therefore one of politics and diplomacy. in accordance with the right of peoples to self-determination, we support the recognition of palestine as a state and the two-state solution in principle, if this is accompanied by peace negotiations between israel and the palestinian authorities, with international support, so that recognition can be achieved at the most appropriate time. the timing of the selection shall be based on, inter alia, the following elements: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the basis of the following criteria: the progress of the negotiations, the existence of a full palestinian government with authority over the whole of the palestinian territory, and the borders of the territory of the 1967 state of palestine. only in this way will we create a lasting solution to the conflict in the middle east.
in writing. the large majority vote in favour of recognising the state of palestine in principle is based on the two-state solution with the 1967 borders and jerusalem as its capital. it is essential that this step be accompanied by the resumption of peace talks. i welcome this recognition because it is not only an important sign in the palestinian cause of self-determination but also an invitation to both states to resume peace negotiations. the 'parliamentarians for peace' initiative, which aims to bring us meps together with colleagues from israel and palestine to set up an agenda for peace, is also very welcome.
in writing. i am very pleased to be a co-signer of this resolution, especially since it has been the subject of a consensus between the main political groups in the european parliament. i am one of those who believe that after 60 years of conflict which has caused so much suffering on both sides, it is time for everyone to put aside their a priori views and for parliament to finally adopt a clear position. i am convinced that the recognition of the palestinian state is a necessary step towards the resolution of this conflict, by establishing an equal statehood between palestine and israel. the european parliament, by adopting this resolution, has given its full political support to federica mogherini, the union's high representative for foreign affairs, so that the european union can finally play an active and decisive role in the resolution of this conflict. i would also like to highlight the courage of 800 israeli citizens who sent a letter to all members of the european parliament in which they strongly condemn the occupation and the settlements and ask for a vote in favour of the recognition of a palestinian state within the june 1967 borders. this action deeply touched me and made me determined to support their courageous initiative.
in writing. i fully recognise the palestinian state, as i am convinced that only the two-state solution and respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of both palestine and israel will bring about lasting peace and regional prosperity. it is time for the union, which has been in the background for too long, to take up its responsibilities and show political will. our common position in the european parliament will make a difference and enable the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, federica mogherini, to provide a legitimate response and to play a significant and positive role in a peace agreement between israel and palestine.
in writing. i am of course in favour of the two-state solution, and therefore of a palestinian state. i'm sure you will. but not like this. a recognition of "principle", going hand in hand with the peace negotiations, a text so ambiguous that it could be signed by the conservatives and... the communists! because of the multiplicity of conditionalities, the sine qua non conditions are not expressed. the european parliament does not have to support unilateral and unconditional recognition, which will inevitably freeze any capacity of the palestinians to make compromises afterwards. nor is it the recognition today of a state which is not a member of the european union and one of whose entities is a terrorist movement. how can we justify giving this status to those who continue to swear to israel's destruction? the 1967 borders are no longer in line with the reality on the ground, a reality that the negotiators have integrated. it's all about where you put the cursor and how much you pay for it. the recognition of the palestinian state must not be "symbolic", but useful for peace. it is in this spirit that i abstained.
in writing. i co-signed the resolution in favour of the recognition of the palestinian state because it is essential to relaunch negotiations, just as it is unthinkable that a lasting settlement of the middle east conflict can ever be reached without the democratic and sovereign state of palestine being recognised as is the state of israel. this resolution continues the movement that has arisen in the parliaments of various member states in favour of a revival of the peace process. this region of the world needs clear borders if the local people are to live in peace and security in the future. such recognition by the european parliament is intended to send a strong political and diplomatic signal to the international community and, in particular, to the israeli and palestinian authorities. it is high time that dialogue was resumed in favour of a negotiated solution. by supporting this resolution, i am protesting against the escalation of violence in the region and calling for an end to settlements in the palestinian territories, which are illegal under international law. palestine must be recognized on the basis of the 1967 borders, with jerusalem as the capital of two states, living side by side, and in mutual recognition.
in writing. this afternoon, through a resolution adopted by a majority, the european parliament formally and unconditionally recognises the state of palestine. this recognition by the european parliament is intended to be a strong symbol! the resolution voted this afternoon shows that there is a broad consensus in europe that the recognition of the palestinian state is a necessary contribution to peace and security. it is also a signal to the member states to recognize the palestinian state immediately and unambiguously. finally, belgium must unconditionally recognize the palestinian state as it did in 2012, in particular, at the united nations.
in writing. - although european industrial competitiveness is very important to me, i voted against this resolution. i find that this resolution does not address the right causes for the difficult position which the steel sector is in today, nor does it come up with appropriate solutions to address these problems. the main problem is overcapacity in the global market, mainly driven by the high production by state-owned enterprises in large third countries that are being sold on the global market below production cost. the steel sector, which per definition operates on a global scale, is very vulnerable to this. one of the solutions to this problem could be more specialisation in high-quality, high-value-added steel production.
in writing. during the last campaign for the european elections on 25 may, the mr had pledged to make a difference in the european parliament by its action in favour of the revival of industrial sectors in difficulty, such as the steel industry. a liberal and social approach dictated by the need for results, not a purely protectionist approach, which has shown its limits for more than 20 years. because reality is there; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2007-08. we know that the european industry is in dire need of a strong and competitive steel sector. the union is the world's second largest steel producer, accounting for 11% of total production. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment.
in writing. the european steel industry has not been spared by the crisis, far from it. many production facilities have either been closed permanently or have been put on hold with no technical possibility of being restarted. some industrialists have justified these closures by claiming that there is structural overproduction of steel in europe, an opinion which i do not share at all. i think we all agree, however, that the necessary reindustrialisation of europe requires a strong and competitive european steel industry. other economic powers such as china have understood the strategic importance of the steel sector and have therefore not hesitated to support it. three quarters of the costs of producing steel come from energy and raw materials. it is therefore essential to support r&d as well as investments to improve energy and material efficiency in this sector. this is the future of our entire industry. this resolution is timely.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which stresses the importance of an industrial policy and intelligent regulation, together with measures to boost the competitiveness of european industry in a world market and to guarantee conditions which are truly equal for all economic agents, in order to protect european production against social and environmental dumping.
in writing. almost every day, people immigrate to the european union out of necessity. many of the asylum seekers coming to europe take the risky mediterranean route, which has become the most dangerous border crossing in the world. more than 3 000 people have lost their lives this year trying to cross the mediterranean sea to europe. the mediterranean member states are overwhelmed by this situation, which is why the european parliament, in its resolution this week, reiterated the need for a holistic approach and for the eu to assume its fair share of responsibility and solidarity towards the member states of asylum. however, in order to meet search and rescue obligations and thus prevent further deaths at sea, this also means providing adequate financial support in the medium and long term. it also calls on member states to impose strict sanctions on persons or groups exploiting vulnerable migrants in the eu and to raise awareness through wide-ranging information campaigns of the dangers to those who entrust their lives to traffickers and smugglers and to those who have been victims of trafficking.
in writing. i have of course supported this motion for a resolution by which the european parliament asks the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs to examine a comprehensive eu migration strategy and to draw up a series of recommendations to strengthen it. the mediterranean has already seen too much drama. this overall strategy must therefore be based on solidarity and respect for human dignity. the eu urgently needs to develop and secure safe and legal access routes to its territory and actively combat networks of smugglers and traffickers of human beings. it must also develop greater solidarity with third countries in africa.
in writing. more than 3,000 people lost their lives in the mediterranean during the first nine months of 2014. we must find ambitious solutions so that member states can meet their international obligations and save the lives of those in danger. an ambitious approach is needed at european level to ensure effective control of migration while maintaining a humane approach. in this context, it is imperative that the eu allocates additional resources to the european agency frontex. more broadly, there is a need to consider concrete actions as soon as possible to create an effective european asylum framework and legal migration routes.
in writing. i voted for this resolution which calls for a comprehensive european approach to migration and for more efforts and financial and human resources to prevent further deaths at sea... and this despite the fact that at least 3 072 people lost their lives in the mediterranean in the first nine months of 2014! i believe that the european union should take more responsibility and show more solidarity with the member states which are hosting the largest number of refugees and asylum seekers. this necessary solidarity, which i advocate and defend, also implies making a sufficient contribution to the budgets and operations of the european border control agency, frontex, and the european asylum office.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for a comprehensive eu approach to migration. it is necessary for the union to strengthen solidarity and a fair sharing of responsibilities towards the member states hosting the largest number of refugees and asylum seekers, both in absolute and relative terms, in accordance with article 80 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, as we all know, this house has always had a particular interest in the cia's transfer and detention programme and the alleged transport and illegal detention of prisoners in european countries by the cia. six resolutions have already been voted on this subject in the last two partsessions. the recent american report makes the european member states concerned admit - i think poland, which has admitted the existence of a secret detention facility - that they were aiding the cia's operations. the transfer of terror suspects was considered by the intelligence services of certain european member states to be too frivolous and too quick to be ok. the value of the american report is therefore primarily that it provides a mirror for our european practices. the european union says it stands for standards and values of respect for human rights for third countries. our shared european history is constantly invoked. but those principles apply to ourselves and our allies as well, and not just useful in human rights dialogue or human rights hearings. the fight against terrorism is indeed necessary and the balance between the protection of society and the infringement of personal freedoms must be right. today we see the consequences of the anti-terrorist policy that has been pursued. we see extremists in syria, iraq, afghanistan and pakistan have been able to reunite and become bloodier and more powerful by the day. the damage to europe's reputation is considerable. without prejudice to the need to combat terrorism, respect for human rights is an absolute prerequisite for ensuring the effectiveness of any counter-terrorism policy and, above all, for maintaining citizens' confidence in the democratic order of the eu. by uncritically cooperating with the cia programme, the european union has violated this trust. the unconditional use of diplomatic guarantees, the systematic invoking of state secrets and the way in which the intelligence services have assumed the role of judge are contrary to the values on which europe was built.
in june last year, ladies and gentlemen, this parliament adopted a resolution on the crackdown on the civil protests in gezi park. we criticised the absolute lack of media freedom in turkey. today we are not one step further, on the contrary. the arrests of journalists and the brutality that goes with them show that the turkish rule of law has a gigantic problem. after all, democratic states respect freedom of expression. in a previous life, i was a passionate professional journalist. i felt that clarifying the substance was a guarantee of objectivity and quality. the fact that turkish colleagues, even under the guise of national security, are being sent to prison for this is what makes me angry! freedom of the press is the immune system of a healthy society. but ankara seems to be fundamentally taking a different path, slowly but surely adopting the undemocratic practices of authoritarian regimes. if democracy in turkey is nothing more than a mask behind which the state and its leaders are once again showing their true colors, then conclusions must be drawn.
- a writer. - mr president, i can only join the previous speakers. what began in february as a student protest for greater security has prompted president maduro's regime to violently suppress all dissenting voices. ten months later, we have dozens of victims and as many as 1,400 civilians awaiting trial. anyone who attempts to express themselves on the internet risks prison sentences of up to five years. the rule of law is no longer a reality in venezuela. president maduro, as chavez's successor, is trying to harshly control the population in a country that has a disastrous legacy: a nationalized economy with widespread corruption and inflation of over 60 percent. maybe we should consider following the us congress and enacting sanctions against president maduro and his entourage. first of all, look at those people in the regime who have violated human rights, no longer allowing them into the european union and freezing their financial assets. finally, this parliament must condemn in the strongest terms the democratic deficit in venezuela and work for the release of hundreds of peaceful protesters, their leaders and all political prisoners, including the democratically elected president of parliament, maria corina machado.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not aware that the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i regret, however, that following the opposition of the representatives of the two main groups, several paragraphs of the resolution which we had requested were not included. we had proposed a paragraph calling on the mauritanian government to sign and ratify the protocol establishing the african court of justice and human rights. it was denied! we had asked for a paragraph calling on the commission to engage in a political dialogue with the mauritanian government on respect for human rights, on the basis of article 8 of the cotonou agreements. it was denied! we had asked for the inclusion in this resolution of a request to the commission to launch formal consultations, in accordance with article 96, on any violation of human rights. it was denied! i have not understood these refusals, mr president, which were justified in the negotiations we have had on the grounds of the authority of the size of the groups, which seems to me to be the most painful of all arguments.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls for the scheme of generalised tariff preferences not to be granted to the philippines until the european commission has withdrawn the notification that the philippines could be considered as a non-cooperating third country in the fight against illegal fishing. it is noted that the resolution states that it does not oppose any future application by the philippines or the granting of gsp+ status by the union in the near future. i further requested the commission to establish, in close cooperation with relevant un bodies, ngos and the government of the philippines, a roadmap on human rights and the environment, including fisheries practices, to set targets that the philippines will need to achieve in 2015 in order to be able to apply for gsp+ status by 2016.
in writing. we voted against this resolution. on the one hand because the philippines doesn't follow the rules, but on the other hand to send a signal. we cannot continue to accept trade agreements or preferential tariffs with countries which do not respect human rights or social and environmental rights simply because we have always done so!
in writing. i voted in favour of the commission delegated regulation (eu) supplementing directive 2014/59/eu of the european parliament and of the council of 15 may 2014 with regard to ex ante contributions to resolution financing arrangements.
in writing. georgia must continue its efforts to strengthen democracy. it is important that the country continues along this path, and that is why the signing of an association agreement with it is an important and encouraging act. in addition to the benefits georgia will derive from this agreement, the european union will benefit from more regular trade flows and better investment conditions in georgia. at the same time, of course, the georgian authorities must work towards national reconciliation and continue to consolidate human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. the association agreement with georgia is a further step in strengthening the existing framework for economic and trade cooperation. it will allow us to move towards a political association based on common values and standards and towards economic integration of georgia into our internal market, through the establishment of a very ambitious free trade area, which will be beneficial to the modernisation of the country and the improvement of the quality of life of its citizens. we must continue to deepen this area of cooperation and dialogue on common interests, which will create trade prospects for the union and georgia, but also on important areas of foreign policy, security, freedom and justice. georgia has made significant progress and we must continue to show solidarity and support its reforms. the european parliament, in collaboration with the georgian parliament, has a crucial role to play in ensuring the implementation of this agreement.
in writing. i voted in favour of this recommendation, which is part of the approval procedure for the association agreement/free trade agreement between the european union and georgia. this agreement, which was initiated at the eastern partnership summit in vilnius on 29 november 2013 and signed on 27 june 2014, provides for enhanced cooperation in the areas of strengthening the rule of law, promoting judicial reforms, fighting corruption, ensuring respect for fundamental rights and freedoms and strengthening democratic institutions. it will also enable georgia to modernise its trade relations with the union and develop its economy through the gradual abolition of customs tariffs and quotas and the harmonisation of laws, standards and regulations. reforms are planned in the following areas: public governance, justice, law enforcement, economic recovery and growth, consumer protection, energy, transport, environmental protection, industrial and social development, social protection, education, youth and culture.
in writing. i followed the party line and my colleague who is an expert on the matter. the signing of the association agreement should mark a significant step forward in relations between the european union and georgia and embody the commitment to the method of political association and economic integration.
in writing. on 27 june 2014, georgia and the eu signed an association agreement. this agreement is part of a new generation of association agreements with eastern partnership countries and contains provisions on a deepened and comprehensive free trade area. it therefore goes beyond most free trade agreements in removing non-tariff barriers to trade, aligning regulation with the eu and including binding rules on investment and services. the eu is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, including the establishment of a common security and defence policy. the eu-georgia association agreement is the third of its kind, following the association agreements with ukraine and the republic of moldova, for which the european parliament must give its consent to ratification. given russia's intention to significantly expand its military and economic control over the breakaway georgian territory of abkhazia, the adoption of the agreement by the european parliament is all the more welcome as it reaffirms its support for georgia's sovereignty and territorial integrity and thus enables georgia to move closer to the eu in the future.
in writing. this agreement is an important step for eu-georgia relations. while the country demonstrates a real ambition to comply with the union acquis, a balanced free trade agreement will be beneficial to both parties. the eu could benefit from the facilitation of trade and the improvement of investment conditions in georgia. for its part, having adapted to european requirements in terms of laws, standards and values, georgia will not only see its political environment shifting more and more towards a democratic state based on the rule of law, but also gain access to the european market and thereby strengthen its economy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this recommendation, which is part of the approval procedure for the association agreement/free trade agreement between the european union and georgia. this agreement, which was initiated at the eastern partnership summit in vilnius on 29 november 2013 and signed on 27 june 2014, provides for enhanced cooperation in the areas of strengthening the rule of law, promoting judicial reforms, fighting corruption, ensuring respect for fundamental rights and freedoms and strengthening democratic institutions. it will also allow georgia to modernise its trade relations with the union and develop its economy through the gradual abolition of customs tariffs and quotas and the harmonisation of laws, standards and regulations. reforms are planned in the following areas: public governance, justice, law enforcement, economic recovery and growth, consumer protection, energy, transport, environmental protection, industrial and social development, social protection, education, youth and culture.
in writing. by giving its consent to this association agreement, the european parliament will bring georgia closer to the european union. we voted in favour of the agreement and took note of the ratification of the agreement by the georgian parliament on 18 july, which paves the way for its provisional application as from 1 september 2014. it should be stressed that the association agreement will only be a success if it is implemented scrupulously by both partners. the union should therefore assist georgia in adopting the necessary laws and decrees and in ensuring their proper application.
