mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot look at things in black and white, whether or not to apply co2 capture and storage technology, or whether or not to shut down thermal power stations. the technology for carbon capture is a progressive technology and may be required in the context of the european union's objectives to develop a low-carbon economy. overall, this is a useful move and if the member states get actively involved, the result for the european union as a whole would be beneficial. the different levels of development of member states' economies should be taken into account and mechanisms for regulatory regimes should be put in place that will preserve the competitiveness of companies investing in r&d&i projects. the return on their investment is an essential element of the implementation of the technology. the commission also notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the price of electricity from renewable sources is higher than the price of electricity from renewable sources. this applies to all products, not just electricity. it is, of course, important to consider other influences besides the economic and environmental positives. the technological challenges that this technology brings must be taken into account. member states should have the possibility of technological adaptation as they have different levels of development of existing systems. various geological structures and potential carbon dioxide storage sites need serious mapping and research to provide security and minimise the risks this technology brings.
mr president, i draw attention to a problem that has caused a great deal of concern in the balkan countries and which, if it continues as a trend, could create tension in the region. this is a statement by the prime minister of the republic of turkey, mr erdogan, on the importance for turkey of parts of bulgaria, greece, macedonia, kosovo and sarajevo as parts of the former ottoman empire. this is not the first time that a high-ranking turkish politician has made such a public statement. the statements are deeply disturbing and call into question the sovereignty, territorial integrity and national dignity of independent states. this is incompatible with peaceful development and cooperation in the region, with the eu's enlargement policy, with the tolerance of the balkan peoples. the statements are contrary to the responsibility that comes with a political speech by the prime minister of a republic with the status of an eu candidate country. bulgaria, and i believe other countries in the region, will not accept any attempt, even verbal, to question its territorial integrity and sovereignty, and the european institutions should not close their eyes to these precedents either.
in writing. i voted against the motion to waive lara comey's immunity because i find the arguments unfounded and inconclusive. i do not think it is appropriate to question the immunity of a member of parliament because of statements made by him during a debate. freedom of speech should be a basic human right guaranteed to every human being. to achieve a waiver of immunity, there must be serious acts and violations on the part of the member, which i believe are lacking in this case. i strongly support the committee on legal affairs, which recommends that the european parliament protect the immunities and privileges of lara comey.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the regional development committee's proposal on building networks of excellence for an effective cohesion policy, as i believe it is crucial for the eu to continue to improve its innovation capacity. i think that the objectives to be supported in the future need to be chosen with particular care. in general, the winkler report is very general and only makes recommendations, without proposing specific measures to improve the situation of the regions. however, i believe that the ideas it contains are good and, if developed further, would contribute to the future improvement of the situation of the eu regions.
in writing. - i support this report, emphasising one word mentioned in the speech by my colleague herman winkler: 'efficiency'. i think it embodies the spirit of the new mff and the major changes we are seeing in the size of the funds. it means achieving greater efficiency with the same resource that we have had so far. incidentally, bulgaria needs to be encouraged in this direction, and the reason for this is not the fact that the country will have the same amount of european funds for the next seven years as it had for the previous period. for the 2014-2020 programming period, member states are for the first time required to develop a research and innovation strategy that contributes to increasing regional innovation capacity and to improve the coordination of development funding. they will continue to play a central role in the process of absorbing this funding. therefore, smart specialisation is the only way i believe is right to use the union's common expertise and resources to achieve regional development with a focus on enhancing our own regional characteristics, potential and competitive advantages. by identifying their individual priorities and drawing up their specific regional strategies, individual regions will be able to adapt them to their individual needs in the most effective way.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, i supported the proposal for a european parliament resolution on 'smart specialisation: building networks of excellence for an effective cohesion policy' because i believe that the eu structural and investment funds should help to make regions 'innovation engines' through targeted investment in research and development (r&d). an important precondition for receiving r & d funding from the european regional development fund is the development of so-called 'smart specialisation strategies' and member states should accelerate their efforts to develop them. in preparing these strategies, the following challenges are identified, especially in relation to the new eastern european member states, which need additional investments in r&d and research infrastructure: first, identifying the 'competitive advantages' of innovation in close cooperation with business/smes as a source of future entrepreneurs and a key driver for innovation in the market; second, the creation of sustainable networks and partnerships of universities, research centres and business representatives from the new member states with leading european research centres to build the necessary capacity and research infrastructure. third, ensuring synergies between the different instruments and sources of funding, with a focus on horizon 2020 and the new instruments to attract private investment in r&d.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the voting rules and the content of reports in the context of the approval procedure because i believe it is important to establish a stable mechanism that is respected by all. i fully agree with rule 81 of the ep's rules of procedure, which is of the utmost importance for the purposes of this amendment to the rules. i think it is important to extend the scope of qualified majority voting, as this is a method that ensures a better and fairer representation of the vote of european citizens. i also agree with the commission's decision to reform the powers of the european parliament to make it more effective.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the commission proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 510/2011 to set the conditions for achieving the target of reducing co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles by 2020, as i believe that reducing co2 emissions from light vehicles will lead to positive results in our fight for a greener environment. i also welcome the granting of derogations to small enterprises, which would otherwise face serious difficulties in complying with the regulation, which in turn would lead to a reduction in competition.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the commission's proposal for a new regulation on the 'consumers' programme for the period 2014-2020 as it provides sufficient full and comprehensive protection for consumers and the internal market. however, i was against the alternative proposal, which lacked sufficient clarity on some key issues. such a legal act is of the utmost importance for the health of consumers and for the protection of their interests. in recent years, the need for such an act has been felt strongly in view of the obsolete provisions of the legislation which preceded it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the vital murayra report because a significant part of the legislation in the field of trade policy has been brought into line with two articles of the tfeu the so-called trade omnibuses and the rapporteur proposes amendments which reflect the changes presented in the two acts. this includes the proper involvement of the european parliament in the preparation and application of implementing acts, the limitation of the delegation of power to a period of five years, which may be extended by tacit consent, the extension of the period for possible objection to the preparation of a delegated act from two to four months and the modified application of the written procedure. i believe that the rapporteur's proposals are a positive development and provide concrete guidelines, timetables and ways of acting.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report by mrs murayra on the grounds of consistency of trade legislation, as it proposes amendments to the commission proposal which reflect the changes introduced by the two common commercial acts. i share the rapporteur's view that this is the right way to monitor the implementation of legislation in the field of the common commercial policy, since the legal basis is article 207 tfeu. furthermore, such a change would ensure the future involvement of the international trade commission in the exercise of its oversight powers, which are of considerable importance for the proper functioning of the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report by paolo bartolozzi on the definition, description, presentation, labelling and protection of geographical indications of aromatised wine products for several main reasons: first of all, i think it is important to have a quality policy for these products. the main objectives of the proposal are to improve the applicability and clarity of eu legislation on aromatised wine products, with some trade names being updated. this ensures that the consumer is properly informed, which is really important. another objective is to bring it into line with the treaty on the functioning of the european union. overall, the proposal does not change the scope of existing rules for the sector but concerns adaptation to the commitments already undertaken by the union.
in writing. − i voted 'abstention' on the report on the development and deployment of carbon capture and storage technologies in europe, not because i disagree with the rapporteur's arguments or the process technology. for me, as a bulgarian mep, it sounds unthinkable that we as eu members should be expected to support the project financially or to develop an indicative strategy explaining how to achieve the co2 reduction targets by 2050. i'm not a pessimist, i'm a realist, and i can say that bulgaria is currently facing the difficult task of solving so many serious, vital problems that carbon capture and storage technologies are not among the priorities. i appreciate the potential of carbon capture and storage technologies and hope that they will soon become a priority for our country as well.
in writing. − i voted against the commission's proposal for an ehealth plan for 2012-2020 as no specific measures for the development of these databases on patient status, which is the most important for the adoption of this act, were put to the vote. more importantly, parliament calls on the commission and the member states to continue to work on pilot projects such as epsos (smart open services for european patients) and renewing health and/or the virtual physiological human initiative in the name of building interoperability at european level and to continue to support innovative person-centred care solutions, including modern modelling and simulation, necessary to achieve the goals of predictive and personalised medicine.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the de lange report on the food crisis, fraud in the food chain and the fight against it, because i believe that food safety and the interests of the consumer have always been central to the work of the european parliament as a whole. i am therefore pleased that the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has taken the initiative to present a report setting out the relevant factors contributing to the fraud that has occurred, as well as possible solutions to it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the steinruk report on effective labour inspections as a strategy to improve working conditions in europe, as i believe that economic and social changes in recent decades have had a dramatic impact on employment. i believe it is essential to have such a system in place to enable the exchange of information between national authorities in the event of fraud or illegal exploitation by certain undertakings. this will further contribute to cooperation at european and national level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the commission's proposal on employee financial participation in company revenue, as this report aims to highlight the positive role that employee financial participation schemes can play in developing employee participation in management and in the financial success of the companies in which they work. this report focuses on a number of observations and recommendations on employee financial participation that can contribute to the establishment of a voluntary framework for advising companies, employees, social partners and national authorities on how best to develop and support employee financial participation schemes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because i believe it is important to ensure responsible and sustainable long-term funding of social security systems, especially in times of economic crisis. i believe that all eu migrant workers should enjoy appropriate social security rights and protection when working in another member state. i fully agree that it is necessary to lay the foundations for sound social protection for all, including the self-employed and the employed, regardless of the type of employment contract or employment status. given that the number of unemployed people in need of social support is increasing every day, social security systems in europe should help to protect against risks and low incomes, and to reduce inequalities across eu member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for specific measures on plastic waste in eu legislation in relation to more consistent and strict application of the legislation on plastic waste. i believe it is important to harmonise the collection, sorting and overall management of waste across the eu in order to create a level playing field in line with the waste hierarchy, including removing technical, regulatory, administrative and financial barriers to recycling. i voted in favour of the proposed reform of the special labelling of materials to inform consumers about the possibilities of mechanical or organic recycling, together with guidance on how consumers can increase sorting and recycling. replacing single-use and short-term plastic products with more durable materials is environmentally relevant. i disagreed with the first part that energy recovery of plastic waste should be used when all other options have been exhausted. i also voted against the introduction of a european plastic waste day, on which citizens can return any amount of plastic waste to pre-determined points in exchange for appropriate monetary compensation. i don't think it's right to incentivise citizens by offering money, they should take the initiative without any return.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the european strategy on plastic waste in the environment. the situation of plastic waste is serious, not least because of its substantial differences from the rest of the materials contained in waste streams. the lack of a sufficiently comprehensive focus in the waste framework directive raises problems both in ensuring collection and treatment and in implementing a single targeted approach at european union level. in view of the huge flows of plastic waste, finding a targeted solution, in line with existing regulatory mechanisms, and options for exploiting this huge material resource is of paramount importance. i strongly support the efforts to develop a strategy for plastic waste, setting specific targets and defining an approach to their implementation. such a strategy should take into account the specificities of plastics as a material and the treatment process of the generated waste, which is not only managerial but also technological. i draw attention to the key role of each member state in addressing plastic waste problems by adopting and implementing the necessary legislation. in any event, the restrictive measures should not be seen as a blow to the plastics industry but rather as a drive for more efficiency in the materials economy.
in writing. − i am happy that we managed to reach an ambitious agreement on priorities for the plastic waste strategy for europe, and that parliament has supported that. the report recognises both the necessity of specific binding targets for the collection, sorting and recycling of the various plastics and the pressing need for more rigorous implementation and enforcement of the existing legislation throughout all the member states. this proposal sends a strong signal to all actors along the value chain about the direction in which europe should move, creating impetus for policies, practices and consumer behaviour based on the principle of waste as a valuable resource. i am confident that this will push europe to innovate further in the field of recycling and waste management at all levels and will promote research and the development of more sustainable modern technologies, materials and products. in this manner we also send a strong signal to the international community as regards dealing with plastic waste, and we will contribute significantly to eliminating toxic and hazardous plastic waste from the environment and to protecting human health.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate mr daniel caspary on the compromise reached on a key regulation of the european union's foreign trade policy. this instrument is essential for liberalisation and access to external markets, given the current challenges arising from changing balances in the global market environment. in this context, it is a top priority for us liberals to develop an instrument to protect the integrity of the single market and the union's common commercial policy, by giving the commission more powers to guarantee equal and fair access to the public procurement markets of third countries for companies from the member states of the european union and to the markets in the union for companies from those third countries. when we talk about reciprocity, it should not be seen as a way of closing markets in the european union and in third countries in return. the main objective should be to promote the mutual opening of markets, therefore the option of restricting market access should be a last resort and should only be applied in cases where all other measures related to a commission investigation of the situation have been exhausted and the relevant negotiations have been conducted. i believe that the possibility of restricting access to the entire european union market, and not just to certain regions within the union, should be a principle, but i also believe that it is strategically important for the commission to have the necessary tools to ensure that a fair system of common rules is established which also applies to international trade agreements. i accept that the subject is delicate, but it is related to the application of various instruments for the protection of trade, which politicizes it, but i am nevertheless convinced that the union needs such a unified system. finally, i would like to stress that we liberals fully support the efforts to find a compromise approach in parliament that will help to overcome the differences among member states within the council.
madam chairman, honey is so pure that it's the only food that doesn't have an expiration date because it never spoils. secondly, there have recently been reports that the european bee population is only two thirds of what our agriculture requires. and thirdly, the court of justice of the european union is neither a legislative body, let me remind you, colleagues, nor an academy of sciences. i do not accept the court's decision because it is a lie, a lie born in the headquarters of corporate lobbies that are not european, that want to impose foreign production by forcing us to adopt exceptional and unnecessary measures for our own producers. and now this lie is being promoted by the sick brain of the green fanatics who are trying to commit a murder on the copper production sector in europe, because if these proposals of yours that you are making now come into force, bulgaria, in which the copper producers are barely making ends meet, they will perish, you will deprive the people of bread and livelihood. what a disgrace!
a question asked by raising a blue card. madam president, madam dancila, can i ask you, and this is my question to you, what will happen, and tell your colleagues on the left of the chamber, if the imposition of a cost of 100 euros per packaging is implemented on producers in my country, in your country and in the other poorer countries of the european union? please tell me what will be the result of such a restriction imposed on them?
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my support for mr buttikofer's ambitious and positive report on the prospects for reindustrialising europe. new technologies can lay the foundations for a modern industrial revolution based on green energy, clean transport, new production methods and new materials and intelligent communication systems. they all provide huge opportunities for innovation and for developing a cleaner and more sustainable future for europe and for turning the crisis into an opportunity for innovative solutions and economic progress. in response to the societal challenges we face, we need a unified european approach that integrates more sustainable and efficient production and consumption models, and that should be at the heart not only of our industrial strategy but also of our thinking and our way of life. more efficient and sustainable use of resources throughout the chain and greater energy efficiency is a winning strategy, both for the environment and for our economies in the long term. in the context of the limited resources we have in europe, these principles are fundamental. i very much welcome mr buttikofer's report, i support his vision of how to achieve the goals of a sustainable and competitive economy.
madam president, i am moderately optimistic about the positive signals, financial and economic, from some member states, including greece. but, mr samaras, the crisis is still in the minds of many european citizens, so the challenges of returning to growth and attracting investment to our continent remain for the greek presidency. in the short term, we will have to take decisions in the next six months, decisions in solidarity, to deal with the refugee issue, to hold the european parliament elections successfully and to launch the new programming period quickly. we must resist populism and abuse of the free movement of workers. i'm sure you understand, mr. samaras, that the political situation in bulgaria also presents a serious challenge. the bulgarian government of the bsp and the dps is being held in power by an anti-european xenophobic party that is allowing itself unprecedented behavior that is not condemned by the bulgarian socialists, whose chairman is the chairman of the european socialists, for fear of losing support and falling from power. and here's a concrete example: the south stream agreement signed in 2008 with six european union countries and russia does not comply with european law. i believe that this agreement should be brought into line with european legislation and i therefore call on you, mr samaras, to give the council a mandate to the european commission to negotiate with russia on this matter. otherwise, those parties who have signed this agreement will in all likelihood be dealt with by the court of justice of the european union. dear colleagues, in bulgaria there is a specter of a backroom, led by former agents of the state security, the communist state security, the result of which is the lack of effective fight against corruption, xenophobia and anti-european deals. this is happening with the blessing of the president of the european socialists, mr. stanishev, the mandate holder of the current government. i think the council of the european union should know this and not remain indifferent.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the two priority axes of the greek presidency on: 1) creating growth, jobs and cohesion and 2) migration, border management and mobility, removing labour barriers to mobility, which contributes to sustainable economic growth in the internal market. greece takes over the presidency at a trying time, with the upcoming european elections and a rising tide of anti-european and nationalist sentiment. it risks sustaining political pressure that makes it more difficult to create the conditions for growth and jobs and to improve europe's global competitiveness. needing more than ever more europe follows: - to have a debate on political integration, not disintegration. - identify the main areas with significant growth potential: the single market with a focus on the digital market, human capital with a focus on education and entrepreneurship of young people, small and medium-sized enterprises, green economy and external trade. - to make effective use of the funds in the european programmes, in particular horizon 2020 and cosme, which will be key to stimulating competitiveness, growth and job creation, to support innovative enterprises to generate viable products with real commercial potential. - to make efforts not only for economic recovery, but above all for restoring the confidence of citizens, investors, markets, confidence in institutions, banks, politicians and the policies we carry out.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report which seeks to allocate powers between the various committees. i believe that it is of the utmost importance to differentiate the powers of the various parliamentary committees, because it is on the basis of these powers that their work and, accordingly, their competence in relation to various problems and issues, including the reports they consider, is allocated, also with a view to the more efficient functioning of the european parliament.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the repeal of decision 2007/124/ec, euratom, as this repeal does not affect the continuation or amendment of projects concerning their completion or financial assistance. in the context of this council proposal, the committee on civil liberties proposes that the european parliament give its consent to this project. i think this is very important, because the european parliament is the institution that most clearly represents the interests of european citizens. when it comes to security and safeguarding freedoms, it would be most appropriate to hear the views of the people who will have to abide by the rules laid down by the specific institutions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the renewal of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the russian federation, as i believe that the partnership between russia and the eu is a key element, from a strategic point of view, which will contribute to the achievement of the objectives of modernisation. the proposed extension of the agreement for another five years in its current form should be seen as an opportunity to allow the eu and russia to further deepen their bilateral relations in the field of science and technology. the renewal of this agreement is of great importance in the context of the ongoing negotiations for a visa facilitation agreement between russia and the eu. i would like to note that the positive results of cooperation are proof of the potential of the eu-russia partnership to deliver tangible and mutually beneficial results.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a council regulation on the banknote design and technical specifications of the euro coins to be exchanged, as i consider that the proposed changes to the original are essential because, while there are innovations that ensure that the single monetary system of the union is protected, reliable and efficient, the fight against counterfeiting should also be allowed. this is an important element whose importance should not be overlooked and special attention should be paid to the measures to be taken to overcome it. i believe it is important that the commission informs the european parliament of any objection it may have under paragraph 5 of the proposed amendment, because this will help to reduce the supranational element, and both institutions will be involved in the decision-making on the new national designs of coins in circulation published by the commission in the official journal of the european union.
in writing. − i welcomed the report by mr reinhard büttikofer because it aims to give due attention to eu-asean relations, which are often undeservedly overshadowed by the eu's relations with china, japan and india. this situation persists despite the fact that the purchasing power and size of the asean economy are now comparable to those of china and that the political influence of asean is increasing. the opening of bilateral negotiations with the asean countries should be seen only as a first step towards a wider political and economic partnership agreement of a regional nature, both because of the central role that the asian region plays in the international political and economic balance and indirectly in eu-china relations, and in view of the aspiration of the countries of the south east asian region to create a common market by 2015, an objective which, in my view, the eu supports.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the commission's proposal on tachographs and social legislation relating to road transport, as this report aims to ensure road safety, decent working conditions for drivers and fair competition between transport undertakings. the new legislation aims to make fraud more difficult, to better enforce social rules and to reduce the administrative burden by making full use of new technologies and introducing a number of new regulatory measures. the introduction of accessible smart tachographs will help to improve enforcement and will be a way to reduce the administrative burden of the related obligations for compliant transport undertakings.
in writing. - the concession contracts in bulgaria, which have been robbing my country for years, are a subject that deeply concerns me. i therefore welcome the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the award of concession contracts, which would of course also affect the processes in my country. the european legislative initiative in this area is urgent, it would contribute to clarifying the current legal framework and would strengthen stability and legal certainty against the background of the legal uncertainties existing in the eu. clear rules on service concessions would stimulate competition within the union. and greater transparency of procedures will make it possible to combat favouritism in public procurement more effectively. the lack of legal certainty is detrimental and the fact that contracts continue to be awarded on an individual basis is unacceptable. clear, consistent, understandable and effective rules are urgently needed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the commission's proposal for a directive on public procurement, as it introduces clear and transparent criteria for public procurement. the new legislation aims to make fraud more difficult, to improve compliance, to reduce the administrative burden and to introduce a number of new regulatory measures that will reduce fraud in this important sector. transparent public procurement is of great importance to businesses in individual member states, their citizens and their economies. the eu also needs such rules, given the many fraudulent schemes in recent years involving huge sums of money.
in writing. − i supported the proposed texts for a european-wide directive on public procurement because i believe that this is the right way to ensure more open and fair access to public tenders and to improve the way european taxpayers' money is spent. the new rules adopted offer a qualitative reform in this area through several basic measures. first, the introduction of the criterion for selecting the 'most economically advantageous tender' instead of the lowest price tender requires that the choice be made constructively on a complex set of economic, social and environmental criteria. the proposed administrative changes, such as the attempt to introduce electronic services (e-orders) and the facilitation of the regime for the provision of original documents, should also be assessed positively. the improved common standard voted on would allow more smes to have non-discriminatory access to public tenders and make it easier for candidates from other member states to participate in the bidding process. the overwhelming majority of parliament's support for the texts in question is a testament to the pan-european consensus on these issues and the need for improved criteria. the public procurement directive, if properly implemented in national systems, could significantly improve the regulatory framework and procedural requirements in countries such as bulgaria, where a number of problems exist in this area.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the commission's proposal for a directive on the award of public contracts in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors, as it introduces clear and transparent criteria for public contracts in these very important sectors. these sectors are more specific than others, and their specific nature requires more specific rules at european level. the new legislation will make fraud more difficult, improve compliance, reduce administrative burdens and introduce a number of new regulatory measures to reduce fraud in this important sector.
in writing. − there appears to be a growing imbalance between the legal openness of eu procurement markets, the ambitions and interests of the eu in this area, on the one hand, and the restrictive practices of major trading partners, on the other. a number of third countries do not want to open their procurement markets to international competition at all or to continue the opening process if they have already started it. i supported the report by daniel caspary because as a result eu economic operators face restrictive practices when they contract with a large number of the union's trading partners. in addition to the ongoing trade negotiations with major trading partners (such as the us, canada, japan or india) and the commitments made by the 15 parties to the multilateral agreement on government procurement which have been reviewed and await approval by the council and parliament the proposed regulation aims to complement the eu's current efforts to open up third country procurement markets to eu companies.
in writing. − i supported the report because i represent an eu member state in a humanitarian crisis and such unreasonable expenditure at european level is in direct contradiction to what is reasonable. i support mrs herling and i agree with the commission's proposal to consider pollen as a natural constituent of honey and i think it is necessary to pay attention to the direct and indirect impact on the beekeeping sector. classification of pollen as an ingredient would significantly increase the cost of the tests carried out to obtain the information required for labelling and the cost impact could be substantial and exceed the current production costs of the hive, and would be different for amateur and professional beekeepers who produce large quantities of honey and can easily bear the burden due to the effect of scale, and thus the change would be more felt by beekeepers producing smaller quantities. as a consequence, some commercial beekeepers may cease their activities. on the other hand, the increased production costs due to the additional testing requirements will lead to an increase in retail prices.
in writing. - i voted for this report because it confirms the status of honey as a natural and healthy product. i am glad that my colleagues have agreed with this position, which i also expressed as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. by voting for this report, we avoid the negative consequences, direct and indirect, that the beekeeping sector would have suffered if pollen had been accepted as an external ingredient rather than a natural constituent of honey. the direct consequences are related to the labelling and testing costs that would arise under european food labelling legislation. the indirect effects are related to the reputation of honey as a natural, healthy product. during the discussions on the dossier, i have repeatedly stressed that the debate on the honey directive should not be confused with the debate on gmo coexistence. the issues of gmos and food labelling are covered by other directives than the honey directive. that is why i voted for this report, because by this vote the european parliament is once again declaring its support for the beekeeping sector.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the commission proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the 'hercules iii' programme to promote activities in the field of the protection of the financial interests of the european union, as i consider that the creation of such a programme is very necessary in order to promote activities to combat fraud, corruption and any other illegal activities affecting the financial interests of the union. this would lead to a pooling of efforts and an increase in the quality of work and inevitably to better results.
in writing. − i voted in favour of improving coordination between national authorities and the commission (eurostat) because i believe this is essential for producing high quality statistics in the eu. the ess committee should retain the same structure as the intrastat committee, i.e. one member from each member state. in order to ensure data coverage, the movement of these goods should be included in the intrastat system, limiting as far as possible any additional costs. however, i do not agree with the exchange of confidential data relating to intra-eu trade, which i believe should be allowed between member states in order to increase the efficiency of the development, production and dissemination or to improve the quality of these statistics. the exchange of confidential data could be authorised in exceptional cases also in accordance with regulation (ec) no 223/2009 in order to facilitate the work of the tax administration.
mr. chairman, colleagues, it is now january 15th and we have all seen that there is no wave of migration of bulgarians and romanians, and speculations about its scale are unrealistic. in the context of the forthcoming european elections, the following main conclusions must be drawn: first, we must not allow the negative campaign to dominate the european debate. national governments and european formations must not fall into the trap of pro-nationalist and anti-european parties, borrowing their rhetoric for short-term political dividends. such strategies are a 'blurring' of the real problems and needs of european citizens, whose solution requires structural reforms, more education for economic growth, and increased employment, especially among young people. such campaigns risk forgetting the belief in people and the contribution of immigrants to the economy and society of the host country. a personal example is given by the bulgarian plamen petkov, who died tragically in 2012, saving a five-year-old girl in the uk from drowning and was posthumously awarded the royal medal of valor. the failure to respect the fundamental right of free movement is a threat to the long-term stability of the european union in view of the multicultural societies in which we live. as vice-president redding mentioned, according to eurobarometer, citizens cite this right as the most positive effect of integration, and the european commission reports a growth in gross domestic product of at least 1% in countries that have taken in workers from eastern europe. let us not jeopardise this achievement for europe's competitiveness by exploiting the full potential of the single market.
mr. chairman, i'm very sorry that the biggest opponents of free movement are not present at this debate today, i don't see mr. farage, i don't see his supporters, i wonder why they're not coming to this debate. because today we are discussing and speaking with facts, and what is missing in their arguments are the facts, and i would like to thank in particular the european commission and vice-president mrs reding, commissioner andor, for defending european values and european law. but let's look at the numbers. all this hysteria that has developed in some countries, particularly in britain, led by the nationalists, but unfortunately the other parties are slipping, a lot of them, along this line, are not based on any facts. in the uk, there is one bulgarian citizen for every 2000 people, in a city of 100,000 there are 50 bulgarian citizens. is that pressure? how many unemployed? at 600 to 1. these are the facts. bulgarian and romanian students are paying £30 million a year to live and study in the uk, so when we talk about free movement, let's talk about facts. let's talk about why mr. cameron took the report from the secretary of the interior, which was supposed to be published and prove how dangerous immigration is. turns out there's no facts about this thing. let's not stop the free movement of citizens, member states benefit from it.
mr president, i would remind you that council directive no 78 of 2000 establishing a framework for equal treatment in employment and occupations is in force. under the so-called framework directive, member states are obliged to report on its transposition into their national legislation. i think it would be too late for the european commission to wait until 2015 to collect data on its implementation and possibly in 2016 to come out with a summary report. member states have had difficulties in implementing the framework directive. it needs precise definitions of basic concepts which can be drawn from the case-law of the court of justice of the european union. my appeal to the commission is to start a process of revision and supplementation of the directive, which i hope will have a positive impact on any changes in national legislation that do not depart from the objectives of the directive.
mr. president, when the national wealth of a colonized country is totally depleted by its colonizers, the population of that country naturally begins to migrate to where its money has gone. so the bulgarians and the romanians and all the other eastern europeans, however little they actually are in reality after all the data that has been exported, who migrate westward, go where their money went. their money that was stolen, drained from your disadvantaged western companies, left behind in our fragile post-socialist economies. and if you want to stop this flow, this stream, this tiny stream that flows into your countries, annoying you, then stop looting our countries, free and allow our economies to get back on their feet and then the bulgarians and romanians will return to where their hearts are, to their homeland. (the speaker agreed to answer one question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. mrs morwai, i absolutely agree, it's something extra i want to tell you that these other freedoms of movement of goods, capital and services, they don't bother you, do they? because you have imposed your boot on our markets and pumped it from there. the only last right left to our citizens in this union is to seek their happiness and their future where those capitals were exported. they come in as investors and then they're exported in much larger quantities and people follow them, that's natural. (the speaker agreed to answer one question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. i don't think apologies work because apologies are like words. the words anyone can speak, the question is what actions are taken behind the words. and i couldn't agree more with you that, as i said before, this is the only remaining right of bulgarians, who are already treated as second-hand people in their own country, because people from rich western corporations, who developed capitalism for centuries, come and pay them less and treat them directly as slaves. and that's the last right - to go somewhere where we can be treated normally. (the speaker agreed to answer one question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. unfortunately, similar statements have caused a wave of photos in bulgaria, which show ordinary british people celebrating in london on saturday and sunday and what violations of public order they commit. but it's not right to blame each other and watch each other do what they do. and as for your question, yes, we have witnessed a similar situation in france, where european citizens have been returned and deported to their own country. these are the ones you accused us of not being able to integrate. you can integrate them, if you know better.
in writing. all eu member states are equal in all its policies and freedoms, including the free movement of people. the expectations of some countries that after january 1st the bulgarians would immediately occupy the airports and head to other countries, however, did not come true. i am surprised by the hysteria that has developed around the date of 1 january and the frightening predictions that some governments have made. it is unfair and humiliating the way in which the bulgarian emigrants in general have been talked about. the idea of fingerprinting is unacceptable. i urge mr. brock to distance himself from this idea. the intertwining of issues such as migration, roma community, minority groups, schengen, crime, social tourism and refugees does not give a clear picture of the problems, but only provokes a negative attitude towards bulgarian citizens. ladies and gentlemen, european law is the same for everyone. the bulgarian people enjoy all the rights of european citizens and respect their obligations. don't replace them with issues from your own political agenda. every human work is a contribution, no matter where it is organised; migrant labour is also a contribution. today, more than ever, the eu needs greater labour mobility, not the other way around.
in writing. the free movement of persons is a fundamental right guaranteed to citizens of the european union by the treaties. as commissioner andor also mentioned in his statement, the commission has developed further measures to encourage union citizens to exercise their right to move and reside freely within the member states. i cannot help but take pleasure in the prevailing tone of the debate. the vote in this chamber was dominated by the voice of reason, by the view that we must defend the values and the law of the union by all means. at the same time, some of the loudest speakers against the full opening of the labour markets to bulgarian and romanian citizens today, when the leading argument in the speeches of most colleagues were the facts, were not among us. what are the facts? emigration is driven by the desire for better career opportunities and fulfillment, not by the prospect of receiving welfare benefits. the right to receive benefits is in turn linked to contributions to the social security systems of the countries concerned. in the context of the current crisis, labour migration within the union is not only a way of reducing unemployment but also a means of overcoming disparities in the supply and demand of labour - topics we have repeatedly discussed here.
in writing. in recent months we have witnessed a fierce debate in which bulgarians and romanians have been warned about all the bad things that will happen in the six countries with the lifting of work restrictions on january 1. the data on the economic benefits of migration, on the desire of bulgarians and romanians to work, on the small number of people who will actually leave their homelands, could not convince some politicians not to succumb to a populist election campaign. so the debate, from a debate about migration, became a debate about the spirit of the european union and the equality of the member states. if in the midst of the economic crisis we were talking about a two-speed europe - of the financially disciplined countries and those with bad finances - today we are witnessing a new division between rich western europe with its growing nationalist and protectionist tendencies and poor eastern europe with its problems and immigrants. such opposition is not only sad but also dangerous. it takes us back years as a mentality and casts doubt on the success of european unification. just as europe showed solidarity with countries in difficulty during the financial crisis, so today europe must protect bulgaria and romania, which demand respect for the work and abilities of their citizens.
mr. chairman, i don't know about world war i. i know about her from history. but i remember the bombing of serbia in the '90s. today the balkans, the western balkans are changing. and that's the good part. all of us who live in this territory know what that means. i congratulate serbia on the opening of negotiations for membership of the european union. i believe that this will contribute to reconciliation and regional cooperation in the region, to peace, stability and prosperity. this is not only important for serbia, it has a positive effect on all the other countries in the region, on the speed of european integration of the other countries. i expect serbia to maintain the same determination to negotiate and continue the modernisation of the country that it has shown recently. as a member of parliament from bulgaria, i expect that special attention will be paid to ethnic minorities and regional development. the recommendations of parliament are well reflected in the resolution and i support it. accession negotiations will, of course, run in parallel with the normalisation of relations with kosovo, and the two processes will certainly complement each other. i regret to see that enlargement is not one of the priorities of the greek presidency. but i call on the greek government, despite the difficult moment for europe and the challenges facing all european countries, to renew the union's efforts to find a solution to all outstanding issues and to accelerate cross-border cooperation in the region.
commissioner, a year ago hardly anyone would have thought that today we would be congratulating serbia on the opening of the pre-accession negotiations with the european union and kosovo on the negotiations for the stabilisation and association agreement. these events are the clearest evidence of the long road that both sides have travelled, a road full of peaceful dialogue, compromise and cooperation, a road that will inevitably lead them to full membership. but opening negotiations is the first step towards european union. now the leaders of serbia and kosovo must prove that they can not only preserve what has been achieved, but also build on it through reforms on behalf of their citizens and in order to ensure good neighbourly relations. the european union will support them financially through the instrument for pre-accession assistance as a demonstration of its commitment to their future. but it is up to them to realise their european dream. full membership of serbia and kosovo is important not only for them, but also for the stability and prosperity of the balkans. it will lay the foundations for economic cooperation that will make all the countries in the region richer. it will lead to a strengthening of contacts between people, which will overcome nationalism and hatred. it will require political cooperation to solve common problems. the accession of serbia and kosovo will thus bring peace to a region too long associated with conflict. as a member of the european parliament from bulgaria, a country with an interest in having stable neighbours and a peaceful region, i can only wish serbia and kosovo a speedy accession.
madam president, as we all know, the situation in south sudan is particularly worrying. it is a country already weakened by decades of war, but the current crisis could shake the entire region. i would like to emphasize the following four points. war must be avoided at all costs and above all it must take on a stronger ethnic dimension. it is worth recalling to both sides that south sudanese women and children are being forced to flee the country regardless of their ethnicity. protecting civilians and responding to the humanitarian crisis is a priority. we should also remember that the first duty of the government is to protect civilians, even before fighting those it considers to be rebels. we cannot settle personal or political differences by force of arms, the solution is political and democratic. thirdly, without a ceasefire, the negotiations between the two parties will not be able to achieve anything. the intergovernmental authority for development (igad) must remain firm on this point with the support of the european union and the international community as mediators. and here too we would like to hear more from the african union, which has a role to play in preventing the crisis from spreading to east africa. finally, we must not forget the underlying problems: political and interethnic dialogue and the protection of civilians are urgent, but the basic infrastructure also remains to be created. cooperation with sudan must be transparent, including on resource management. the strong support of the region and the entire international community is a factor that should not be overlooked. we must do everything we can to ensure that the youngest country in the world is not also the most ephemeral.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i welcome the swift progress parliament has made on this file and wish to thank the rapporteur for the engagement shown in his report. it reflects the needs which people and businesses feel when they are moving freely within the union and are blocked by bureaucratic hurdles. the proposal, as has already been explained very comprehensively, aims to simplify the acceptance of public documents. it will also make the life of millions of citizens and businesses easier, because the hurdles which are being removed are unnecessary and costly. they are red tape and pure bureaucracy and they originate from the member states, as has been underlined. so your vote tomorrow will be a very important step in the right direction. this matter concerns the 14 million citizens who reside in a member state other than their member state of origin. 13% of all marriages in the union are international and 50% of smes are engaged in cross-border activities. however, they all face burdensome and costly paperwork in trying to live or in doing business. citizens might want, for instance, to register a birth, get married, register a house, or apply for a residence card. companies want to prove their legal status, but they have to jump through many a bureaucratic hoop to do so, all because national authorities ask for certified copies, certified translations and rubber stamps such as the famous apostille the rapporteur has highlighted. and all that just to show that your birth certificate really is your birth certificate. in short, the apostille and the other formalities force citizens and companies to waste time and to spend money, simply because they are moving across an internal border in the single market. in other words, whenever citizens and businesses want to benefit from freedom of movement and establishment, they are asked to legalise documents and they need to ask the authorities of their member state to confirm that the public official signatures, seals or stamps are genuine. we need to remove everything which is red tape. take, for example, the apostille. this is a kind of seal that must be placed on about 1.4 million public documents per year. it takes very often up to six months to obtain one. certified translations are required for around 1.6 million public documents per year. the cost of that to citizens and to businesses is eur 330 million per year. of course, one could say ‘yes, but what about forged documents?’ there are forged documents, but currently there is no structured cooperation among member states to combat this. so we are proposing a structure such as the one underlined by the rapporteur on the existing internal market information system – the imi. this would enable the receiving authority to send a request for information to the issuing authority in order to check the authenticity of a public document in cases of doubt. that would be a real barrier to forgery and to fraud. this proposal cuts red tape and costs for citizens and it gives the member states a way to fight fraud more efficiently than is the case today. ultimately, it promotes free circulation of citizens as well as the freedom of establishment and of providing services for businesses willing to tap into the full potential of the internal market. mr rapkay has been a very good rapporteur, he has been supportive of the proposal and ready to move this file forward. parliament wants to ameliorate, and to change the proposal in certain points, for instance by extending the scope by including additional categories of public documents as well as public documents issued by union authorities. you have also reached a compromise that certified translations can still be requested for economically complex documents such as those concerning real estate or companies. if it is necessary it should be done. it should only be eliminated for cases where it is not necessary. in addition, parliament also agreed to introduce a greater number of eu standard multilingual forms to remove final translation requirements. the commission can accept the amendments, which strengthen the proposal and bring additional benefits to citizens and companies. one amendment was tabled last week after mr rapkay’s report had been adopted by the committee on legal affairs. under this amendment only extracts from registers and a few administrative documents would be exempt from the apostille. this means that, unlike in the commission proposal and the report adopted by the juri committee, court documents, notarial acts, official certificates, administrative documents and diplomatic documents would still be subject to the apostille and other formalities. this, of course, would go completely against the basic thinking and basic action behind getting rid of red tape. so the commission clearly cannot accept this amendment because it could void the report of all meaning.
mr. chairman, every man has the right to liberty, to property and to the pursuit of happiness. those are the words of the author of the american declaration of independence, thomas jefferson. and when british tourists take advantage of their freedom and come to pursue their happiness in the southern or eastern resorts, that's not a problem, of course. although they do so quite often in a reckless and sometimes hooligan-like manner. when their pensioners come to extract whatever happiness they can from the rest of their lives in our villages, buy property there, take advantage of their property rights, that's not a problem either. but when eastern european citizens try to find their happiness by finding decent pay and decent income in western countries, suddenly this becomes a very serious problem. the bad thing, ladies and gentlemen, is that you have not yet answered the question: 'why are our citizens going to seek their happiness in your countries?' i gave you that answer last time, i'm sorry that mr. van orden left, because he's the person who probably knows best what conditions were imposed on bulgaria when it joined the european union, how those conditions are killing our economy and our people are naturally fleeing out. they should not have administrative obstacles to their pursuit of happiness.
mr president, i would like to thank the european commission and vice-president reding, as well as the rapporteur of the european parliament, mr rapkay, for the proposal and the work on this report. mobility is one of the european union's most important achievements. the ability of european citizens to move, study, work and rest in different countries is what our citizens feel is the most direct result of european integration. at the same time, bureaucracy, administration and the need to submit additional documents are particularly significant obstacles to such mobility. it is true that this regulation deals with the form rather than the content and in many places the substance of these documents is extremely important and creates many problems but i think it is still a very big step forward. the treatment of apostilles and certified copies and the uniform format of the various documents will greatly facilitate european citizens' ability to move around. there is still a lot of work to be done and i would like to address you, mrs reding, specifically with regard to young people and their mobility, and especially when it comes to education. it is true that there are other regulations and other directives which relate to educational and vocational qualifications, and the question of the recognition of qualifications is an intergovernmental rather than a community matter. it is very important to continue working in this direction precisely because of young people who, for example in bulgaria, lose about 6-7 months for the recognition of a diploma of higher education obtained in another country. this is something worth working on in the future, once this regulation has been adopted, which, i repeat, is a big step forward.
in writing. mr president, against the background of the continuing and unfounded debate on the free movement of workers from bulgaria and romania, the adoption of this regulation is a good sign. the regulation will contribute to the effective exercise of the fundamental right of citizens to free movement. in essence, the standardisation of official documents for the whole of the european union is a reduction in the administrative burden that we have always sought. citizens save time and money, the process itself is made easier. i am confident that the regulation will receive wide publicity and approval. such actions make the union's existence meaningful for the benefit of its citizens. this is the way, before the european parliament elections, to remember how the european institutions work for the people. i would like to see a short deadline for its implementation by the commission and the member states.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, thank you for the opportunity to comment on parliament’s draft report on better lawmaking, which also highlights some very important issues concerning relations with national parliaments, and the report on the monitoring of the application of eu law. as you point out in your report on better lawmaking, the principles and tools of smart regulation are being embedded in our policy-making cycle. this means designing a regulation that respects the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality and delivers its benefits effectively, with minimum costs. the report places the emphasis on the need to minimise regulatory burdens for businesses and calls for concrete proposals in this regard. the commission believes the refit programme is an effective and efficient means to identify and correct weaknesses in eu legislation and to take up the suggestions of member states and stakeholders for areas where further simplification and burden reduction is necessary. what does it imply in terms of concrete proposals? among the measures listed in the refit communication of last october, 21 proposals that will bring important simplifications are already with the core legislator. in addition, the commission is proposing 23 new legislative initiatives to simplify laws and reduce regulatory burden, and 31 new evaluations to identify the precise measures to take. the commission will also suggest the repeal of nine legislative acts that are no longer needed and refrain from proposing legislation in six areas during this mandate. nearly 40 evaluations are already underway. refit is a rolling programme. the commission will publish the first refit scoreboard in the course of this year, in order to monitor the progress of proposals. the commission also believes this demonstrates that we are fully committed to simplifying legislation and reducing the regulatory burden. however, smart regulation is a joint responsiblity. parliament and the council can substantially amend the commission proposals, possibly at the expense of simplicity and sometimes even adding regulatory costs. that is why i welcome the creation of parliament’s impact assessment directorate and encourage parliament to utilise it fully in carrying out impact assessments on amendments. i also echo parliament’s call on the council to complete the work on establishing its own mechanism for undertaking impact assessments, mainly on amendments. the commission’s impact assessment system has been independently assessed. it was recognised that it uses the best international standard. work to further strengthen the system is ongoing, with a view for instance to assessing territorial impact. further improvements will be made in ex ante assessment of cost and benefit. we also plan improvements on public consultation policy. on subsidiarity and relations with national parliaments, you know the subsidiarity control mechanism was introduced with the lisbon treaty and we now have some experience with the mechanism. we could say that it works well because national parliaments regularly make use of their right to issue a reasoned opinion. we received 84 reasoned opinions in 2013. although the vast majority of them did not trigger a yellow-card procedure, the national parliaments made the commission aware of their concerns and the commission keeps these comments in mind during the legislative process. it has been suggested that the eight-week deadline for national parliaments to issue a reasoned opinion is too short. when you see that we received 84 reasoned opinions in 2013 it seems that it works. any modification of the deadline, or the number of votes necessary to trigger a yellow or orange-card procedure would require a treaty change and it would be for member states to agree upon this. on ms lichtenberger’s report on monitoring the application of eu law, i would like to highlight the following points. our two institutions attach great importance to the correct application of eu law, and i appreciate the opportunity to have a regular exchange of views on this subject – you understand that i am speaking in the name of my colleague now. the commission shares the parliament’s concerns as regards the high number of late transposition infringements. the commission has systematically proposed financial penalties as sanctions against each member state that has missed the transposition deadline. the 2011 annual report underlined once again that petitions from citizens and businesses are valuable sources in detecting violations of eu law. the commission takes note of parliament’s remarks on the procedural law under article 298 of the treaty. article 17 of the treaty gives the commission the power to oversee the application of eu law under the control of the court of justice of the european union. accordingly, the infringement procedure under articles 258 and 260 forms part of a specific competence conferred directly on the commission under the treaties, and therefore article 298 cannot be used to govern the responsibilities directly conferred by the treaties upon the commission in the area of infringements. in addition, complaints already benefit from comprehensive administrative guarantees including a deadline for response, the right to be heard and prior notice before closure. concerning the transparency of infringement procedures, and especially that of the eu pilot, the commission fully adheres to the rules laid down in the current framework agreement with the european parliament. the commission wants to underline that in the initial phase of infringement procedures we have to respect the principle of sincere cooperation with the member states. that is inscribed in the treaty. this means that transparency might necessarily be limited while the commission conducts its initial investigation. this way of working has been supported again by the court of justice in one of its recent judgments, dated 14 november 2013. that having been said, as the case then advances from the stage of letter of formal notice, the commission publishes the key information on the subject matter of the dispute by way of a press release and via our europa website. so the commission welcomes the interest of the parliament in smart regulation and in the correct application of eu law, and the commission looks forward to continuing a dialogue with the parliament on these important issues.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i note some progress on monitoring the application of european law, but there are serious gaps. my criticism is that the european union's legislation is becoming more and more distant from people and more concerned with chickens and pigs. the failure of the institutions is that they are moving away from the principles of subsidiarity and there is an increasingly evident federalisation, centralisation and concentration of power in brussels. is that what we want? no, i'm not going. i and the party i represent, the national front for the salvation of bulgaria, want legislation to be close to the people and to solve their problems, and the commission is not achieving quality results in the fight to protect fundamental rights, the environment, the internal market and property rights. the huge number of petitions shows that these are the most important areas in the european union. i shall now support my words with an example from bulgaria and the tragic state of these sectors there. i have repeatedly alerted the commission to the problems with the landfills in banja, german village, yambol, the chelopec and krumov city mines of dundee precious metals and those of the copper miners, but europe's hypocritical attitude has led to these tragic results. the judicial system does not protect fundamental rights, environmental protection is something unknown to the last bulgarian governments. i have repeatedly warned the european institutions that democracy in bulgaria is on the books, that there is total control over the public media, as well as the possibility of repressing all political and economic opponents, and the electoral law unfortunately despite the assurances was not changed in a way that would make people believe that the elections will be held fairly. i remain hopeful for a new and effective european commission that is closer to the people and their problems.
madam president, i welcome the rapporteur, mr karim, on his proposal to introduce a single approach to better regulation in order to overcome the fragmentation currently existing in the commission's communications and, above all, to make regulations more understandable to citizens and businesses and with less administrative burden. as a former chair of the european affairs committee in the national parliament in bulgaria, immediately after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, i was challenged with my team to create and put into practice a completely new procedure for conducting subsidiarity and proportionality checks and for participating in the informal political dialogue with the european commission. as a result of the new procedure and the active dialogue with all stakeholders, a strategic focus was ensured in the work of the bulgarian parliament on current issues of pan-european interest in direct contact with citizens, the non-governmental sector and business. with the new composition of the parliament, this tradition has unfortunately been broken. in this context, i will focus today on the commission's report on better lawmaking, which shows that national parliaments are increasingly involved in shaping and implementing the european agenda. it is true, but at the same time we all know that there is definitely something to be desired, both at european and national level. in order to increase the democratic legitimacy of european legislation through the involvement of national parliaments, the early warning mechanism can be made more effective by the following three necessary measures: first, the development of guidelines at european level for the implementation of the lisbon treaty and better coordination between national parliaments themselves. cosac is a good foundation, but it is not enough. secondly, the extension of the eight-week period for carrying out subsidiarity and proportionality checks, especially in bicameral parliaments. third, strengthening the capacity of national parliaments, including through various forms of exchange of good practices, and building institutional continuity to ensure the sustainability of the mechanism.
madam president, it is good that the european commission recognises corruption as a pan-european challenge, not limited to the new member states. but if she wants a serious analysis of the genesis of corruption in modern bulgaria, she should look for it at the beginning of the transformation of the political power of the former communists in 1989 (and before) into economic and financial power. the opaque privatization in bulgaria and the public funds going into the pockets of the former communists, their agencies and families, and in more recent days the entry of bulgaria into the european union with this serious corruption deficit, have repelled investors and created a sense of injustice and selective justice among bulgarian citizens. the corruption led to an unprecedented suspension of european funds for mr. stanishev's government, the "brother and son" scandal, the rings from ethno-business party companies. bulgaria is in a very serious political and moral crisis crisis of trust, crisis of justice. from this podium, i call again on all european leaders, and especially those of the socialists and liberals, to contribute to a pro-european solution to this crisis in bulgaria. i emphasize the word pro-european because bulgaria's european path is threatened by the current puppet government, dependent on vague behind-the-scenes forces and more obvious geopolitical players.
in writing. madam president, according to the european commission's report on the implementation of the unfair commercial practices directive, european citizens are still being abused. this is not because of bad regulations, but because of poor implementation of the directive. with today's resolution, we call on member states to make more efforts in this direction as soon as possible. of course, they will be supported at european level, with the commission reviewing its implementation guidance document and continuing to regularly update and clarify it, especially with regard to sectors identified as highly problematic. the exchange of good practices between the parties in tackling abuses is also of paramount importance, and consumer organisations need to step up their role in raising citizens' awareness of existing unfair commercial practices and how to assert their rights. efficient and rapid legal remedies at affordable prices are of course directly linked to the successful implementation of the directive. we cannot have growth in the european economy and the single market if consumers do not have confidence and do not actively participate in them. we have to create the conditions for that to happen. that is why i call on you, colleagues, to vote in favour of the resolution presented.
in writing. mr president, there is little doubt about the future of renewable energy. unfortunately, the existing energy infrastructure implies the development of concentrated large renewable energy sources, which raises regulatory and system security issues as well as the need for fast-track replacement capacity. on the other hand, the renewable energy (res) sector is characterised by decentralised production, which requires smart grids and management. the development of smart grids today needs to be adequately promoted. further development and integration of distributed generation from renewable energy sources is possible mainly through the construction of local and regional smart electricity distribution networks. the commission should focus as soon as possible on reducing barriers to the development of smart grids, stimulating investment and providing financial incentives through an appropriate regulatory framework, developing technical standards and supporting innovation in technologies and systems, ensuring a competitive retail market in the interest of consumers. i support the establishment of a minimum share of 20% of the european regional development fund for investments in energy transition, including smart grids, renewable energy generation and distribution, energy efficiency and energy savings. it is of particular importance that cooperation and exchange of best practices between member states, including the roll-out of smart grids, continue to be pursued.
mr. chairman, now that we know that our "pirate" mr. enstrom supports the directive, perhaps copyright holders should be a little more vigilant. but my expectations in relation to this directive, which i also support, are pragmatic and i hope that the strengthening of collective management of copyright will have a positive effect, namely differentiation of prices for the different member states and, consequently, cheaper access for citizens of poorer countries. because you know that 10 euros don't mean the same thing everywhere in the european union. they mean one thing in germany, france, italy and they mean something else in bulgaria, romania and croatia. we have always said that european culture should be a commodity for all, but that is, alas, not the case and it is primarily a commodity for those who can afford it. of course, the income of creators must be protected because it also develops culture, but we have seen how the lack of funds actually encourages people to resort to piracy and copyright infringement, and i hope this directive will correct these distortions.
mr president, i consider the proposal for such a directive to be overdue. the deep crisis of 2007, which continues today, has revealed serious shortcomings in the legislation, but this has not led to effective action by the commission. the foundation of the european union the free internal market, is seriously threatened by possible misuse of inside information and manipulation. these measurements are correct. i am disturbed that there is still too much reliance on individual countries to control the competent authorities for compliance with these directives. there are countries where such surveillance would be extremely difficult, either because of protectionism or incompetence, but it is more serious when inside information is transmitted by the state institutions themselves and their leaders - and here it is no longer a question of protectionism, but the opposite - of transmitting the national interest. an example of this is in bulgaria: in the 1990s we witnessed the criminal privatisation of state property and enterprises, and now inside information continues to leak in the process of 'public procurement'. i'm afraid that because of corruption and lack of capacity, such measures would not have any effect in bulgaria. the recent appointments of institutional directors have been sharply criticised even by the commission. many good ideas are unfortunately corrupted after they have been transposed into national law and implemented accordingly.
mr president, i voted in favour of the rapkay report on the recognition of documents between the different member states, but there are two points which remain in my mind. the first is that the european commission says it is fighting red tape and wants to make red tape easier for citizens. so it remains unclear to me why the european commission itself looks at the bureaucracies of the member states and does not look at its own bureaucracy, which has gotten its fingers into the european citizens and their businesses and is increasingly suffocating them? and the second question, which is naturally related to the big topic of migration processes within the european union is i wonder and i think the answer is negative has the commission asked itself the question when the eastern countries are completely pumped out by their specialists who will go to the west, what will happen to these countries?
in writing. - a recent eurobarometer survey showed that citizens of the member states identify freedom of movement as one of the main achievements of integration. several million people in the eu live in a country other than their country of origin. a significant percentage of firms operate in the territory of more than one of the countries in the union. at the same time, they often have difficulty navigating procedures, requirements for certified copies of documents and long lead times. moreover, these procedures cost millions of euros a year. this report aims to simplify administrative procedures for citizens and businesses within the eu. its scope includes exempting official documents from the need to be legalised, accepting uncertified copies or translations, developing eu standard forms and documents, and improving administrative cooperation between the parties by establishing a mechanism for verifying the authenticity of documents. the support for the resolution is a step in the right direction, as is the fact that it has been voted on, by reducing formalities and avoiding the burdensome procedures for the recognition of official documents. i believe that the text voted on today will make a tangible difference to the lives and work of millions of european citizens.
mr president, i voted against the report on criminal sanctions in this case because i firmly believe that criminal policy is a matter for the exclusive competence of the member states and that the european union cannot in any way create criminal legislation in any area. yes, it is very convenient at the moment to say: 'well, we had such and such problems, they led to a serious collapse in our economy, let's criminalize certain phenomena that are related to the common market'. but what will stop the european union (if we open this door to it) from starting and finally adopting a european penal code, completely abolishing national legislation in this direction? that is unacceptable to me and that is why i voted against it so that this door would not be opened.
mr. chairman, i of course supported the report of my colleague karim, we worked on it together in the leading committee on legal affairs. i have some remarks to make, however, and many of them are included in the report itself, but the main one is that for me the very principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are perhaps the most sinister thing that exists in the european union when it comes to creating its legislation. what is a 'subsidiary'? what can be better dealt with at european level and by what term are member states' powers and their national sovereignty 'taken away'? subsidiarity is what the european commission says and nothing else. the very power of national parliaments to object is a laughingstock, a mockery, i even wonder how national parliaments still have the will to continue to object when it is seen that absolutely nothing is happening.
on the basis of what i've heard, i'd like to ask, cannibals are also different, but does that mean we should treat them with love and respect just because they're different? of course, this does not mean that sexual orientation should be directly linked to cannibalism, i do not want to suggest such a thought, but colleagues, in the constitution of the republic of bulgaria, a member of this union, it is written that marriage is a union between a man and a woman. that's it. that's the situation. whatever you try, this will not change until the bulgarian people through their legally elected representatives of their own will decide to change this. that should be very, very clear to you. let me ask you something else. when films with inappropriate, pornographic content are shown on television, we put a sign "over 18" so that children do not watch, but we allow pornographic parades in our streets, in full view of everyone! this is not a rights issue! this is pornography!
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint resolution replacing the lunacek report because it is a balanced text, the result of a reasonable and responsible agreement between the political groups, and it meets the objectives set out in its title. the text adopted follows an approach based on fundamental rights as enshrined in the eu charter of fundamental rights and the treaties, and defends the principle of non-discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation or gender identity in the fields of education, health, employment, access to goods and services. the text fully respects the sphere of competence of the union on the one hand and that of the member states on the other. the exchange of good practice between member states is encouraged in the different areas where the principle of non-discrimination and the protection of individuals against hate speech and hate crime apply. the report also takes into account the union's responsibility to promote respect for the fundamental rights of lgbt people in its external action. it is therefore a text that is fully in line with the union's values and principles, such as subsidiarity.
in writing. - i fully support the european commission's initiative to create a tool such as the eu justice scoreboard. as many colleagues in the chamber have pointed out, the various member states have expressed concern that the instrument could be used to harmonise the legal systems in the union and thus to disregard certain legal traditions which are an integral part of the law of the member states concerned. i believe that this concern is addressed in mr zwefka's report, which explicitly emphasises a very different meaning of sharing good practices and an intelligent and expert approach to justice gaps. as regards the other main concern that the tool could be used at national level for political agitation and manipulation, i believe that this would be difficult to implement given that the data on the scoreboard are transmitted by member states at expert level. in this context, the concern is comparable to the fear that the government of a country may not be able to improve the deficiencies in its justice system that it has itself acknowledged. as a member of the european parliament from one of the eu's newer member states, i agree with my colleagues from romania and the republic of croatia that the eu has much to gain from this instrument.
in writing. - i voted for this report because it is a step forward towards a fairer place for small farmers in the cap. small farms are vital to sustain rural agriculture, livestock and specific local crops. they are among the main tools against the 'aging' of european agriculture and the depopulation of rural, mountain and semi-mountainous areas. therefore, due to the voluntary nature of the small farmers scheme in the first pillar of the cap, it is necessary to examine and use all the possibilities for supporting small farmers provided in the second pillar. public services and infrastructure are needed to benefit small farms, to encourage investment and to create appropriate financial instruments for small farmers, and to guarantee fair prices for their produce. i am glad that my colleagues agreed with me on the need to find an effective way of supporting producers, such as beekeepers, who do not own or cultivate land, which excludes them from the small farmers scheme. that is why i voted for this report, because it is a step forward in the development of specific measures to increase the competitiveness and profitability of small farms, to create jobs and to limit the depopulation of rural areas.
mr president, i would also like to call for the swift finalisation of negotiations and the introduction of the financial transaction tax. the tax has to be simple, easy to apply and involve no exceptions or loopholes. now, when we see the prospects of the european economy starting out on a period of recovery, and when the work on the construction of the banking union is underway, it is definitely high time to solicit the financial sector’s commitment to reinforcing the fiscal capacity of those countries that have been badly damaged during the financial crisis. that is why the decision has to be taken soon. we have already eleven member states that have declared their readiness to go ahead with the financial transaction tax and to start working on it. i hope that more member states will join, including my own, which has a socialist-supported government. they have to act and not water down their decisions further. we are not in a position to impose global taxes, and i hear the arguments of some colleagues. i am sure that the experience, however, of the pioneer member states will show the usefulness of this tax. i would like to bring two arguments for this that relate to national budgets, because i hear many arguments about taxpayers and about small and medium-sized companies. firstly, the introduction of such a tax would relieve the pressure on the national budgets on the revenue side, and this relief of pressure would allow the national budgets to be reinforced and finance the economic recovery. secondly, i would like to remind you about the commission’s proposal to use part of the financial transaction tax as own-revenue for the european budget. that would mean less national contributions to the european budget – not a bigger budget, but a more autonomous budget. therefore, you are going to have relief on the expenditure side of the national budgets as well. so, when we speak about the small taxpayers, about the depositors in the banks, we also have to think that this is going to make the national budgets much easier to manage and reduce taxes for them.
mr president, the european union is undoubtedly a leading player in environmental policy and in the achievement of sustainable development. however, there are differences between the union's strategic objectives and those of non-union countries, as well as fluctuations within the union itself between member states on binding objectives. that's why the results aren't optimal. the establishment of binding 2030 targets for emissions, energy efficiency, renewable sources is the necessary benchmark. setting high goals is important. but it is also important to have the mechanisms, tools and measures to mobilise countries, businesses and citizens to achieve them. these measures must take account of the specificities of the member states, not endanger jobs, and ensure affordable energy prices. the economy of each country must be able to support them. only then can we have sustainable development. binding objectives require binding measures. it is very important to harmonise the basis for reporting and evaluation for all member states so that we can work under the same conditions and the same criteria.
in writing. i abstained from voting on this report because, although it addresses a real problem for women's rights in the union, the text thus put to the vote is not sufficiently mature or capable of taking into account all the dimensions and complexity of the issue of undocumented migrant women. these women are in a very vulnerable situation: they are particularly exposed to human trafficking networks, whether for sexual exploitation or forced labour. at the same time, the lack of legal status and irregular situation, and generally poverty, in which they find themselves, prevent them from seeking protection from the police and from taking legal action. the report rightly stresses the need to protect the fundamental rights of these women, regardless of their origin or migration status. however, it makes demands that go beyond the union's competence and whose effects are not measured, even as the union and the member states face difficulties in formulating coherent and fair immigration policies. this is a complex issue which deserves more scrutiny.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of seasonal employment because it is an integral part of the union's efforts to develop a common and coherent immigration policy. the agreement reached at the end of the trilogue makes it possible to both facilitate and accelerate the procedures for obtaining a visa for the purpose of seasonal employment and to better protect seasonal workers, in particular against exploitation risks but also against accidents at work. the agreement also allows for the need for controls to be anticipated in order to avoid abuse (exceeding the length of stay or using this special procedure for other forms of immigration). the new rules thus established will help to combat irregular immigration by providing a more accessible legal route. this strengthens the area of freedom, security and justice and contributes to the dynamism of the european economy.
mr president, for several months the european union has been living with anxiety about ukraine. the deepening crisis has unfortunately shown that the winning moves are few and they are also risky. on the one hand, the relationship between the opposition and the government, on the other hand, the relationship within the opposition group. you can't ignore the division of the country into regional and ethnic characteristics. there are other outside forces involved. the participation of the freedom party is problematic. but i think there's a certain, albeit fragile, improvement in the situation today, after the rejection of the laws aimed at the protesters. there are attempts at negotiation, and we have to work to continue this dialogue by showing that the protection of citizens' rights, freedom of expression, non-violence are the imperative things that have to happen. our policy should be not sanctioning but motivating, but we have the opportunity to be much clearer, much more united in our messages. now is the time to say, if you will, let's have a plan b. it is clear that the outcome of the situation in ukraine will determine the overall situation in the region for a very long period of time, and against this background we have no right to turn russia into an enemy and at the same time turn ukrainian citizens into hostages of relations between the european union and russia. we have moves to make and we need to support mrs... (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
madam president, the european union is the main provider of humanitarian aid to the central african republic and we have been standing by this partner country for many years. it is true that today it is still a challenge to speak with one voice, but above all to act together. to find a lasting solution, the union's commitment needs to be more focused on supporting african efforts through the community of central african states and the african union. it is agreements and political cooperation between the states of the region that will make sustainable progress possible. two other things. first, in the short term, the union must continue to insist that solutions other than arms and violence be offered to former rebels and militiamen. secondly, we must beware of rushing and imposing from outside a date for the parliamentary elections in the central african republic. the democratic transition and the reconstruction of the state must be undertaken, but this will not help if security is not restored first and if the electoral process is not the culmination of a dialogue and a national appeasement.
a question asked by raising a blue card. you're making this issue politically unacceptable. as the permanent spokesman of the gerb and the previous government you continue to do so. let me ask you to comment on the following quote from our current deputy prime minister: "in 2012 it was planned to build a tent camp for 1,000 refugees near harmanli, 200,000 leva were allocated, but it is difficult to say what they were spent on, because, i quote: "we found a storm-stricken meadow without electricity, water and sewage. the prosecution is already working on that. it's not used for domestic policy purposes, it's just that the government had to work miracles for a few months to be able to control the process.
a question asked by raising a blue card. mrs. guillaume, i have the following question for you: since you don't want to be physically stopped refugees that turkey is intentionally passing and for them it is not proven to anyone that there is a danger, you want them not to be stopped, my question is: can you make any commitments on behalf of the socialist president who rules in france? how many of these refugees will france take from bulgaria because bulgaria can't handle them?
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have been part of two delegations that have visited bulgaria, turkey and greece and all the refugee centres on bulgarian territory. i would say that the country is making increasing efforts to respond positively to three main expectations: first, immigrants expect protection, status, better living conditions and integration in the european union, but not necessarily in bulgaria. secondly, the union expects bulgaria to fulfil its obligations in the area of asylum and protection, but also to ensure security at one of the two land borders of the union. and third, bulgarian citizens expect the social burden on themselves not to increase dramatically and their security not to be threatened. those are three real world points of view. they pose a major dilemma: how to secure the state border so that people who could threaten order and security do not enter the union, but also how to alleviate the suffering of those who have fled the syrian nightmare. modern bulgarians are fully aware of european values and humanism. so it's more important today to talk about opportunity, about political flexibility and about rational solutions. bulgaria's options are limited. she needs serious and quick financial support. the bulgarian government still operates on its own budget. political flexibility is also needed by the republic of turkey. the republic of turkey should be expected to exercise strict control over the movement of large groups of immigrants of different nationalities through its territory to the bulgarian border and to apply the readmission mechanism in good faith. if bulgarian institutions are to deal with the problems of over 10,000 immigrants and prepare this spring for a new wave of unknown numbers, the solutions will again be situational and palliative. but if solidarity grows, it will be possible to address the issues of housing, health, education, status and even partial integration of immigrants in a truly rational way. to this end, bulgaria shall implement a comprehensive national plan. this is the dominant expectation in bulgarian society today. otherwise, the picture is not the same in different places, and we have seen conditions in some places are bad, in others are good, in others are excellent. but the most important message to bulgaria should be that the country will not be left to fight the waves of immigration alone. (the speaker agreed to answer one question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. thank you for asking, it's easy. 80% of the people who are on the territory of the country want to continue their journey to europe because bulgaria is the poorest country in the european union. whether it's illusion, mythology or propaganda, i can't judge, but 80% of them say "give us a statute tomorrow so we can go to europe!" of course we have a problem. second, let's stop with this fence mythology. it's a 20-mile light cable that actually keeps refugees from getting stuck in the ravines and riverbeds of a difficult-to-cross area. they should go to the checkpoints of the state of bulgaria.
mr. chairman, the time allotted for this debate is outrageously short, so i'm going to get straight to the point. firstly, commissioner, you said: integration aid for those who decide to stay. but as far as i understand, these are refugees who are on bulgarian territory because there is danger for them in their country. and when that danger passes, won't it be better for them to return to their own country? and that's actually what needs to happen, so what kind of integration are we talking about? secondly, in the reply to a question i put to the commission - and you have, incidentally, postponed that reply three times over the time limit required by the rules of procedure of this parliament - it says that bulgaria has given eur 300 000 to help the countries neighbouring syria. and what did bulgaria get in return? that is the big question you have to ask us now, and i want to repeat the question of my colleague ilchev: will you show that bulgaria will not be alone in this fight? because you've shown the opposite.
mr. chairman, as of today, there are 11,618 refugees in bulgaria, half of them syrians. the big influx of refugees was from the summer to the end of last year. there were months like october, which had 3,626 people logged in in one month, november had 2,332 people, september had 1,662 people. the crisis was a few months into last year. mr engel said a moment ago that the crisis is over and i cannot see where the european people's party's problem with the refugees in bulgaria lies and i am particularly concerned about the commission's statement. i think the measures the commission is considering are unjustified, wrong and biased, because it is obvious that the problem is being contained. what bulgaria needs now is not a mechanism that is going to be added, but an agreement with turkey on readmission, taking some of these 11,000 refugees to other countries in the european union and creating the capacity for bulgaria to take ten times the normal number of refugees that its facilities are prepared to take. it's necessary to do that. there was a crisis for a few months. it has already been decided and i think that if the commission is impartial, it should make an analysis of the situation in the whole of southern europe, not just in bulgaria. otherwise, i think you're wrong, flawed and biased.
thank you, mr. chairman, first of all, with the visit to the refugee centers with the libe delegation, yes, we have established some of the measures to control the refugee wave. these efforts are at the heart of our call for more european solidarity and financial assistance. but we must have the courage to say to ourselves: bulgaria was not ready for this challenge, bulgaria delayed with a clear plan of action. this period of time casts a shadow of xenophobic sentiment, which i hope will not leave a lasting mark on the image of our country. today we need a strategy for the future, and the measures taken so far are limited to the end of april. and then what? then we're back to talking about unaccompanied minors, needing medical services and language courses? how will bulgaria take the reins from international organizations? i do not want to ask unanswered questions about the future integration of these people, i want to talk about it, i want to talk about cooperation with local authorities and local people, and the working conditions and training of police officers, the people who guard the external border of the union, not to be in the background. prevention, coordination at all levels, integration of refugees, close cooperation with turkey and other member states - these are just some of the steps to tackle this problem successfully.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i rise to say something that is either mentioned very lightly or almost always overlooked, namely that the situation in bulgaria could have been even worse and there might even have been a real humanitarian disaster if it had not been for the ngos and the hundreds of individual citizens and individuals who compensated for the unpreparedness of the bulgarian state. that bulgaria and its institutions were unprepared for this crisis is a fact, the blame obviously lies shared between the previous and the current government. but i would like to point out that these people, these organizations that have sprung up spontaneously, are much better organized and much more effective when it comes to providing aid than is suspected and than is the assessment of the envoys, both from the un and the european union, who were on the ground. these are the organisations, by the way, who are now sounding the alarm that our national integration programme is extremely weak and i am calling on commissioner malmstrom on their behalf not to weaken in any way the control and pressure on the bulgarian government. because we are unprepared and we have no experience, it is a fact, but that we must now form a will to deal with this problem, which will not disappear quickly, is very important and i suggest that there is no optimism about the development of the conflict in syria and that there is no optimism that this problem will be quickly resolved will easily disappear, both from bulgaria and from the territory of the european union.
mr president, commissioner, the european union, the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the syrian refugee crisis following the lampedusa incident. remember when that was and when the crisis in syria started. yes, bulgaria has problems. bulgaria is not a direct neighbor of syria. refugees are crossing vast areas of turkey to reach bulgaria. the problem is not just the flow of refugees, but that 50% of those crossing the bulgarian border are not actually refugees. these are migrants from north africa, from many countries. this creates a lot of risks for bulgaria, but a lot of risks for the european union, and perhaps in this respect, the cases of violence involving migrants are present in bulgaria. there are other cases of xenophobic sentiment and so on. all of this is a danger that bulgaria cannot and should not bear alone. yeah, she wasn't ready. bulgaria, it wasn't ready, but it's managing the rapidly increasing flow. the statistics are there, i won't comment on them, but bulgaria has managed to provide accommodation for thousands of refugees since august and has been able to continue to solve these issues.
mr president, madam commissioner, the common european asylum system is based on two conditions: responsibility and solidarity. bulgaria complies with both. the country's asylum system has been under great pressure, but the initial problems have been overcome. the commitments are implemented in accordance with the dublin regulation, work is being done on a crisis management action plan, interaction with the european institutions is being maintained and a policy of full transparency is being implemented. yes, commissioner, of course there is still more to be done to improve the living conditions of refugees and to speed up the processing of their documents, but let me note, as has been said, that so far the country has been managing with its own resources. it was not until the end of january that the first financial assistance from the european union arrived. i am confident that, together with the will and work of the bulgarian institutions, with the solidarity of the member states and the european commission, refugees will receive the care they deserve even without applying article 33 of the regulation.
mr. chairman, first of all, colleagues, i'd like to say that i'm pleasantly impressed by all those who have contributed to this debate. i'm very impressed by the care, the compassion, including even some of the criticism that has been made, because we are all in a situation where we have to solve not only the present problems, but the future problems. it should be clear that the bulgarian border is actually the external border of the european union, and it's almost 200 km. this is the longest border. we still have a number of challenges to solve, and they are, by the way, a serious problem, and i thank commissioner malmstrom for highlighting all this, for highlighting that important work has been done so far, and for highlighting that we need to activate, let us call it, the 'solidarity mechanism'. because we're not going to be able to solve these problems together if every single member state of the union doesn't respond proportionately, proportionately to population, to gross domestic product, so that we can fight all of this together. i also thank vice-premier venizelos, because the greek experience is also important for us, because we all know, together with the mediterranean countries, how much effort is sometimes put into it and how dissatisfied our population is that it does not receive the necessary technical, financial assistance, but above all the solidarity with which we must solve these problems together.
mr president, madam commissioner, as noted, the refugee crisis in bulgaria began in august 2013 and 85% of the measures adopted to manage the crisis had been implemented by 4 february this year. in the fourth month since the beginning of the crisis, the number of illegal border crossings has decreased for the first time and by 31 january this year, the flow of illegal immigrants has practically stopped. the capacity to accommodate asylum seekers in the country was increased by more than five times in 2013. the timely actions of the government prevented the existence of tent camps in the conditions of the coming winter, prevented the emergence and development of infectious diseases. in addition, the number of persons granted refugee status in 2013 increased by several times. all this, madam commissioner, shows that bulgaria is relying on solidarity, but can also do without activating the clause of article 33 of the dublin ii regulation.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, this is a particularly important issue for bulgaria, which has unfortunately been relegated to the background in recent weeks. the syrian refugee problem is extremely important because over two million syrian refugees, more than half of whom are children, have already fled their homeland. with the uncontrolled admission of refugees into our country through turkey, as the southern border, bulgaria is on the verge of a critical number of refugees and there is a great risk of a subsequent crisis in the country. i call on the eu to intervene and solve the problems of syrian refugees in bulgaria, because the bulgarian government does not have the capacity, nor does it know how to handle this task. yes, it requires funding and specific knowledge, since the refugee wave from syria is a precedent in bulgaria's new history. but it's not unprecedented that every bulgarian government has so far looked for ways to get more money so they can steal it. they're not looking for advice on how to deal with the problem, they're looking for money that you don't know if it's going to get to the refugees. maybe that's why we're the poorest country in the eu, because the money from the funds almost never reaches the citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, the eu-russia summit has sent an important message, namely that our relations and interests, as president barroso of the european commission has said, are too important to ignore our differences, which are largely about the need to respect the rule of law and fundamental human freedoms. the strategic partnership between the european union and russia must exclude the bloc mentality and must respect the right of the partners to be free to choose their own path. bulgaria, as a member of the european union, is crucial to implementing the common european energy policy, which will remove the possibility for russia to exert economic and political pressure through energy projects. bulgaria sees this common european energy policy as an important instrument to safeguard its national interests and at the same time as an opportunity to free its bilateral relations with russia from historical overlays.
mr president, the accession of the republic of macedonia and the other countries to the european union is an integral part of the european dream of the unity of our continent. but this unity can only be achieved on the basis of trust and truth. it cannot be built on a national doctrine based on mythologized truth and history. the current state ideology of the republic of macedonia, based on one of the latest plans of the comintern and southern communism and wrapped in the surrealist touch of antiquisation, has a completely different goal from the european one. based on the successive artificial division after 1944 and the inculcation of hatred towards the neighboring countries, the aim of the current rulers is also to maintain the feeling of bad neighbors. by imposing identity through grotesque forms, monuments, film exhibitions, encyclopedia titles, etc., the rulers in skopje have one goal to stay in power as long as possible, sacrificing for the sake of that both the european perspective of the republic of macedonia and the well-being of its own citizens. unfortunately the real victims of this policy are the macedonian citizens indeed. for their sake and in the name of... (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. there was a time when 28 friends were part of a club. there was one person who wanted to join this club, but the 28 friends didn't know who this person was, so they asked him, and the person answered and told them who he was, but soon the friends noticed that there was some problem with the version of this person's identity. at one moment he was like the greek alexander, at another moment he looked at them with the stern look of the bulgarian king samuel, and at a third he presented himself as a member of the balkan slav community and federation. and when those 28 members of the club pointed out, or at least some of them pointed out to this man that he was obviously lying to them, he responded with the language of hate, with discrimination against their loved ones and with denial of historical truth. what do you think these 28 friends would do in real life if they were approached by someone like that? they won't accept it.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i am pleased that we are voting today on this resolution and on the oral question on the eradication of female genital mutilation. in the committee on women's rights and gender equality we adopted the resolution unanimously and i hope that the european parliament in plenary will take this opportunity to send a clear signal of its commitment to putting an end to this cruel violation of human rights. we will thus be in line with the commission's commitment and in particular that of mrs reding, who had already launched the zero tolerance campaign, which opened up the debate and raised awareness of the scourge of female genital mutilation. i would like to stress a few points which i believe are important when it comes to the eradication of female genital mutilation. firstly, female genital mutilation is an undeniable attack on the physical and psychological integrity of women, on women's rights and, ultimately, it perpetuates inequalities between men and women. i would like to make it clear that there is no cultural, traditional or religious excuse for not respecting human rights. secondly, let us remember that female genital mutilation is a phenomenon that occurs in europe as well as in our partner countries and that it is always inappropriate to point the finger arbitrarily and globally at the african continent, which reveals very different realities from one country to another. it is important that the european union has a comprehensive and integrated strategy which makes it possible to have a coherence between our internal and external policies and not just to give lessons on female genital mutilation. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction, and it is a step which we must take to ensure that the directive is implemented in a way that is compatible with the objectives of the directive. without them, the eradication will not happen. dialogue within a community is extremely crucial to achieving our goals. finally, i think we should not fall into the trap of medical circumcision, which would be more acceptable. we hear it here and there. it is still genital mutilation even if it is performed in a sterile environment by a doctor. ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, on this international day of zero tolerance for female genital mutilation, i would like to take this opportunity to encourage the entire international community, not just the european one, to redouble its efforts to put an end to this scourge and to thank all those brave men and women who are contributing to it every day.
mr president, in my work in this mandate in the european parliament i have always taken a stand and defended the european citizens. these are the citizens who are watching us from the balcony now, who with their work and their innovation and their ideas are moving the european union forward. these citizens, like normal people, quite naturally want their savings to be safe, to be insured, to be managed responsibly, and not to pay twice for the mistakes of unscrupulous financial sharks. at some point, and this is the moment, we have to draw the line and remember that the european union is still a federation, and a very broad confederation of 28 independent sovereign member states, not 28 semi-autonomous provinces. i would like to agree with mr freedom here that he said that we cannot accept an approach where some countries are excluded for some reason. if there is a common regulatory mechanism, it should apply to all member states, not just some of them, but here we are faced with a problem, because it is obvious that the european union does not have the legal power and competence to act in this area. and since one of the member states, and this is the largest member state, the country where the european central bank is based, raises the question, it is appropriate to ask whether there is a problem in admitting that such a mechanism actually exists, that this mechanism, and i say again i support and agree with all its ideas, and my work on the reports and on the european banking authority and on the deposit guarantee scheme, practically all the reports that have been related to the reform of the banking sector, i was the opinion rapporteur, prove that i support this report. but it is clear that in order for this system to apply to everyone, we need to go through the simple reform of the basic union legislation, namely the treaties. the treaties need to be amended, and when all the member states ratify, their sovereign national parliaments or peoples by referendum ratify these changes, then we can move on to the next stage of this federalization. i think the european commission and super mario draghi have crossed the line of what's possible. ladies and gentlemen, this is not a game where we walk across a screen and eat magic mushrooms and collect gold coins from the air. it's a question of the structure, of the principles, of the rule of law, on which this union is built.
in writing. - on 5 february 2014, the european parliament voted in first reading on a draft to improve the rights of air passengers in the european union. statistics show that only 2% of passengers who complain about a cancelled or delayed flight receive compensation from the airline concerned. the texts adopted impose additional obligations on airlines in relation to passenger information in the event of delays and improve the rules for recording and handling complaints. another innovation is the proposal to pay compensation to passengers for flight delays of more than 3 hours. one of the most important proposals of the european parliament is to clearly define the term 'exceptional circumstances' with a closed list that specifically lists all situations that are not under the control of the airlines and for which no compensation is due. the texts adopted also lay down specific responsibilities for carriers in relation to the accommodation and care of their passengers in the event of natural disasters or emergencies. the recent example is the icelandic volcano eruption in 2010, which paralysed europe and left tens of thousands of european citizens sleeping in airports far from home. the final adoption of this regulation will be an important step towards improving the consumer rights of millions of european citizens using air transport!
in writing. - mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, with the vote on the report on the 2030 climate and energy policy framework. the european parliament confirmed the dominance of climate change policies over other industrial and energy policies. of course, the eu has a historic duty to be at the forefront of the fight against climate change, but we must not forget that today our contribution to greenhouse gas emissions is only 11%. no matter how ambitious our goals, we cannot achieve the goal of saving the planet by ourselves. we must therefore take account of the price we will pay for achieving the objectives of economic competitiveness, affordability and security of energy supply. the adoption of three binding 2030 targets for emissions, renewable energy and energy efficiency is in fact a continuation of current policies, without taking into account the lessons learned from their implementation so far. for example, the rapid increase in expensive renewables and the rise in the price of paid emission allowances lead to an inevitable increase in the price of energy and create problems for the competitiveness of the industry. i am not convinced that the proposed policy until 2030 is based on smart solutions, on the necessary flexibility, corresponding to the different possibilities of individual member states. that's why i voted "abstention".
in writing. i co-signed this joint resolution on the situation in ukraine and voted in favour of it because it clarifies once again the position of the european union on this situation: the union is reaching out to a democratic and independent ukraine and is positioning itself as a mediator in the current crisis. this resolution supports the efforts of the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, catherine ashton, to condemn again the escalation of violence and the government's anti-protest laws, and to encourage a political solution and dialogue. the european union, including the european parliament, must act as a mediator at the disposal of the ukrainian actors in the crisis, in order to find together a lasting solution in the interests of the ukrainians and to bring about a transitional government and democratic elections in a timely manner. the resolution also recalls that the current situation is not unrelated to the union's difficulty in conducting a constructive dialogue with russia more generally. this is a challenge which still needs to be addressed in the union's external action.
in writing. i voted for this report because the resolution correctly addresses all the issues currently on the table in bosnia and herzegovina. the european union continues to respect its commitment to the country, maintains a close dialogue with its leaders and makes recommendations in line with european values and principles. however, internal political problems due to the intergovernmental division of the representatives of the three ethnic communities have resulted in the difficult expression of a common and univocal voice, which prevents the country from moving more resolutely along the path of european integration. bosnia and herzegovina must continue to make efforts to strengthen its unity and to address its internal problems, linked to corruption and organised crime, human rights violations, judicial reform, the transition to a market economy and high unemployment. finally, i support the resolution because it highlights the progress made in certain areas by bosnia-herzegovina, which is an encouraging message for that country.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it expresses a precise and comprehensive position on montenegro's progress in the european integration process. the commission's progress report on the country is the second to be published since the opening of negotiations and shows clearly positive results. montenegro has made progress in the area of market economy, but has also improved its capacity to meet the obligations of eu membership and continues to sufficiently meet the policy criteria. for these reasons, i support the rapporteur, who points out that five new negotiating chapters will be opened in december 2013. however, the report also states that the country is facing problems in combating the misuse of public funds and reforming electoral legislation, as well as with respecting the right to freedom of expression. finally, i support this report because it affirms the union's commitment to continue the dialogue and to guide montenegro in its integration process.
madam president, the council's reluctance to adopt this report quickly at first reading leads me to one conclusion, and that is that we have a problem that is not related to the specific proposal. i know mrs. wickstrom and i'm sure, and i saw it with my own eyes in the legal committee what a wonderful job we did on the particular trademark proposal. but the problems go beyond that. they're on a whole other level. because here again we are talking about greater harmonization in the european union. but the european union has another very big problem right now. first of all, he's inharmonious himself. our economies are not harmonious. our regions are not equally developed. our companies are not on the same starting position, so we can say that all other rules will be leveled for them. and so the council, which is made up of member states and which is intended to protect more or less their national priorities, their national interests, obviously reacted, because it sees in this report a threat to some of the member states, to their companies, whether they will be in the same starting position; that is, until we solve the problem that there are rich countries with strong companies that can impose their advantage, their dominance over the other countries, and other countries whose companies cannot compete with them, any development and harmonisation of the common market in the future will be met with bad reception in the council. we have to think about solving the general problems.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the law and the criminal profit commission have not achieved their goal in bulgaria. the european commission noted this in its latest monitoring report. previous governments have abused such regulations. even now in bulgaria, criminals are not punished, but only political and economic opponents of the rulers. we don't believe in the objectivity of these institutions because criminals and rulers have long since merged. how is it possible that the party that is currently in power the ataka party, and its chairman have huge funds of unclear origin. its deputies and officials behave in a disgraceful manner, attacking in turn and spreading outrageous lies, disrespecting anyone's rights and freedoms. and the proper authorities are doing nothing about it. there are reports that mps from this party become guarantors of loans to offshore companies to keep them short, and the prosecution does not react. such parties, being easily attacked, are brought into parliament to serve the criminal rulers. i therefore urge a monitoring mechanism for the national authorities to fulfil their obligations so that there are no cases like in bulgaria.
i welcome the idea of improving europol's governance and increasing its efficiency. in this context, individual member states have a responsibility, particularly in the exchange of information. i am concerned whether all the competent authorities in the different countries could meet the criteria for a high standard. for example, the former interior minister of bulgaria is currently on trial for political umbrella stretching. there is a case in strasbourg that the bulgarian state lied to the european court of human rights in the case of alexander hristov, also during the time of the former rulers. and these are just some of the examples that i can give. there is no record of such abuses yet for the new ones, but they certainly show inefficiency and perhaps incompetence, because they do not punish their political servants from attaka, even when society is repulsed. i call for stronger controls at european level on how individual states meet their obligations and correspondingly strong sanctions for violations; and protection for those like me who resist when the state does not protect them.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. - mr president, it's very interesting: once i get a thank you from the commission and it turns out that it's unwanted. because unfortunately the committee on civil liberties has cruelly cut the report that contains the opinion that was drafted by the legal affairs committee, and it has done so in an extremely one-sided way. and i think that position makes us hypocrites to some extent, colleagues. because tomorrow we will have a debate where we will again discuss the problems of unemployment in the european union, we will mainly discuss the problems of youth unemployment again. i worked constructively in the legal committee, i worked compromise. i have proposed amendments which both improve the commission's proposal in terms of easier treatment of researchers and take account of the very sensitive nature of this subject, particularly in terms of youth unemployment. you said it yourself, commissioner. do not be surprised tomorrow, as i explained to you a little while ago in the previous debate, when the council objected to the reason for this.
a question asked by raising a blue card. mrs. corazza beeld, i agree with most of what you said. we know that the united states has accomplished a great deal by attracting educated people from abroad. but my big problem with this directive is what measures we're going to put in place to prevent abuse. you all know that right now there's a big influx of syrian refugees in bulgaria. and it turns out, very interestingly, that 90 percent of these refugees are students. my question is: how do we prevent abuse of this new statute of limitations?
- what? president, commissioner, i welcome the rapporteur's agreement with the council on the proposal for a regulation establishing a european voluntary humanitarian aid corps. i would like to congratulate commissioner georgieva for her consistent efforts to ensure active civic participation and public support in the preparation of the regulation, ensuring the success of the volunteer corps. i remember the moment when, two years ago, representing the european affairs select committee in the bulgarian parliament, the various parliamentary groups unanimously supported, within the framework of the political dialogue, the creation of the initiative 'european union volunteers for humanitarian aid'. the initiative can play an important role in the professional development of young people through training, experience and networking opportunities and the european volunteers register. i welcome the european parliament's proposal to recognise the experience gained by young people in volunteering as a vocational training, which is an appropriate measure to combat youth unemployment.
rapporteur. - mr president, first i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, the european women’s lobby, victim support europe and european added value assessment for their contributions to the report. violence against women is a severe violation of human rights in the form of gender-based discrimination. it is the root cause of gender inequality and it is an obstacle to women’s full participation in economic, social, political and cultural life. according to studies by european added value assessment, around 20 to 25[nbsp ]% of women in europe have experienced acts of physical violence at least once during their adult lives, and over 10[nbsp ]% have suffered sexual violence involving the use of force. as many as 45[nbsp ]% of women have endured some form of violence; 12 to 15[nbsp ]% of women in europe are victims of domestic violence, and seven women die every day in the union from it. the economic cost of violence against women in the eu in 2011 is estimated at eur 228 billion each year, including eur 45 billion for services, eur 24 billion in lost economic output and eur 159 billion on pain and suffering. the cost of preventive measures is substantially less than the cost of violence. there have been a number of calls by parliament to the commission to come forward with an eu-wide strategy including legislation to combat violence against women. today in the eu there is neither a legislative act establishing measures to promote and support the action of member states nor a comprehensive strategy to combat violence against women. the outcomes and levels of protection of women and girls within the 28 eu member states differ widely. there is no doubt that violence against women has a cross-border dimension and needs to be tackled at eu level. there is a need for minimum standards, common definition and action. the report contains a resolution that lays the basis for a legislative annex. the annex proposes a regulation based on article 84 of the treaty that provides for the exchange of best practices, information and training of officials involved. the report proposes using the passerelle clause set out in article 83(1) of the treaty to add gender-based violence to the list of so-called ‘euro crimes’ with a cross-border dimension. the legislative initiative report (ini) also calls on the commission to submit, by the end of 2014, a proposal for an act establishing measures to promote and support the action of member states in the field of prevention of violence against women. it also insists on the need for a coherent system for collecting statistics on gender-based violence and asks the commission to propose a new action plan on fgm addressing several issues like prevention and protection. the annex urges the member states which have not done so yet to ratify the istanbul convention on violence against women and the commission to launch the procedure for the accession of the eu to the same instrument. it also proposes that the commission take the first steps towards establishing a european observatory on violence against women, building on existing institutional structures such as the european institute for gender equality. it also calls on the commission to establish, in the next three years, a new year to end violence against women with the aim of raising awareness among citizens. the eu should therefore become the leading international actor in preventing gender-based violence, and we should ensure that a life free from violence becomes a reality for all women in the eu. i hope we will have the opportunity tomorrow to support this legislative ini with a majority and to call on the commission for very, very strong commitment towards this report.
the european parliament periodically reviews reports on violence against women, but unfortunately there is still no adequate solution to the problem. violence against women affects their social status, is associated with stereotyping in thinking and behaviour, and leads to inequality. it causes lasting physical, sexual, and emotional suffering and harm to the victims and their families. but the perpetrators often go unpunished. women who have been subjected to violence need not only legal protection but also specific health and psychological support and targeted violence recovery. violence against women is unfortunately taking on increasingly unacceptable forms. the scary thing is that it affects many young girls and women and requires monitoring to ensure prevention. we need to ensure that the european institute for gender equality is more actively involved, we need different information and education campaigns, we need serious european regulation.
- the austerity policy has been a colossal failure for employment and the social sphere! even the imf admitted it. massive unemployment across the eu, cutting social services, is this the europe of the 21st century? there are countries like bulgaria where over 50% of the population is in a humanitarian crisis, official unemployment is over 12% and ridiculous social benefits are given to all those in need! unfortunately, this is exploited by populist parties, which promise pensions and salaries many times higher than the real ones at the moment, as if they hold the money of the state in their pocket! and when they cheat voters and don't deliver on their promises, they blame the eu for their failure. i am calling for a fundamental change in the social and economic sphere so that those who deceive their peoples cannot profit from the commission's failure.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the creation of the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps as it is an important achievement, which meets both internal and external policy objectives: on the one hand, a strengthening of european citizenship and new opportunities for european citizens, especially young people; the european union's foreign and humanitarian policy is also a valuable addition. indeed, the opportunity to volunteer with the european humanitarian aid corps can be a very good opportunity for our young people to gain new experiences and to acquire skills that will be recognised, while helping those in need. in addition, the european voluntary corps should be an added value to the union's humanitarian action; however, it will be very important to give the eu's humanitarian action the full visibility it deserves, especially with the new instrument.
in writing. - i voted for this report because it is a step forward in promoting social cohesion in the union and in achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, namely to reduce by at least 20 million the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion. i welcome the fact that the fund's budget of eur 3.5 billion has been maintained. given the multifaceted challenges of poverty, the eu needs effective european policies with adequate funding. an important step is to extend the scope of the fund beyond food distribution and the ability to purchase basic consumer goods for the homeless and children. this will also help to meet other basic needs of the most deprived citizens. the flexibility given to each member state to respond to one or more of these forms of deprivation should also be emphasised. it is also necessary to use the possibility of accompanying measures that complement material support in order to contribute to the social reintegration of the most deprived persons. that is why i voted for this report because it confirms the fund's role as a tool to overcome the consequences of the economic and social crisis and to put european solidarity with the most vulnerable eu citizens into practice.
in writing. i voted in favour of the owninitiative report on combating violence against women because it is high time to take a decisive step to put an end to the violations of women's physical and psychological integrity, which are in fact serious violations of human rights, which are so dear to our member states and the european union. violence against women is the reflection and self-perpetuating mechanism of gender stereotypes and persistent inequalities between men and women. the eu has taken steps to better protect women with the package; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment. coordination of member states' efforts at eu level is necessary to exchange best practice, to strongly encourage those member states which have not yet taken action to do so swiftly, so that all women in the european union have an equal chance of having their rights and freedoms respected. it is an excellent report and i hope it will bear fruit.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, in the past four critical years, the european semester has achieved a remarkable upgrade: from a good intention, as it was at the beginning, to an undertaking that raises more questions than it answers, to a well-established mechanism for the coordination of economic policies in the eu. with regard to the 2014 annual growth survey, i would like to focus on three main points: first, the eu's exit from the crisis; second, the need to strike a balance between fiscal discipline and growth-enhancing measures; and third, the need for greater national contributions to pan-european development initiatives. the eu is slowly but surely emerging from recession and confidence in the euro is returning through steps towards sustainable growth based on financial stability. i would say to the critics that fiscal discipline is not an end in itself, nor does it exclude the adoption of social measures and the promotion of employment. structural reforms and the focus on maximising the impact of investment create precisely those accumulations in the economy that serve to finance policies for vulnerable social groups. last but not least, member states should make the european semester a much-discussed topic on which to interact much more actively at local, regional, national and european level. the eu is as close to its citizens as they wish it to be! thank you, thank you!
mr president, i think the proposal for a general sales law is a good one because it respects one fundamental principle. since the 1950s, when the european communities were being set up, it has been about moving forward with small steps. and the more countries that join the european union, because this union is not the same as it was 20 years ago, the more narrow those steps have to be. i think the common law of sales should be given a chance. it has some positive aspects which we think are obvious: consumer protection, business ease - all these positive aspects have been mentioned, but nevertheless for the first time in a long time i am witnessing a legislative proposal for a european law which does not jump from the top into the water without knowing where the bottom is, but approaches it in a careful way so that these apparent positive aspects, the theoretical benefits to which it will lead, can be tested and after this test they will show whether this law will work well.
in writing. the growth of online sales is serious. to promote this sector, which has enormous potential and importance, we need to remove the obstacles in contract law that hamper the process. a set of rules of european contract law for sales has to have the same meaning and be interpreted in the same way in all member states. only harmonised rights make it easier for consumers and traders alike. but we must be careful that the obligations and rights are clearly formulated so that individual member states cannot afford to deviate in one direction or another, as unfortunately often happens with the governments of bulgaria, which interpret european rules quite differently, thus ensuring a monopoly of companies close to them. an example of this is the construction of landfills in the villages of banja and german, yambol, where european rules are violated and the ec has opened a procedure against bulgaria.
mr president, here in this debate we can see very clearly that there are policies of the european union which are in conflict with each other, in conflict with each other. because on monday we talked about admitting students, researchers and others from third countries to the territory of the union, we extended their rights to easier access to the european union labour market, and today, quite hypocritically, i would say, we are debating again, again, the state of youth unemployment. and i ask, how is it that on monday the usual propaganda is again poured out about how much the european union needs new immigrants, immigrant labor to fill jobs to move the european union forward? how can this be true at the same time as the fact that millions of young europeans are out of work and their jobs are being taken away by such migrants?
in writing. in the context of the economic crisis and high youth unemployment, the implementation of the youth guarantee is of paramount importance. the funds provided are insufficient, but the mechanisms and approaches that will be used in the different member states are more important. young people do not need directly provided resources that can turn them into customers of social systems, but opportunities for real participation - employment, youth entrepreneurship, the introduction of voucher systems through which they can create and sell different products. the involvement of businesses, especially large companies, which are able to guarantee a certain number of jobs for young people, depending on the specific economic conditions of the member states, is crucial to the success of this policy. the interaction between education authorities and business is also important. business needs innovative and intelligent solutions that graduating young professionals can offer.
in writing. colleagues, 5.5 million or 23.2% are unemployed young people in the eu. in my country, bulgaria, it's 66,000 or over 28%. this leads to a demotivation of young people to develop and fulfil their potential, which in the long term will have a negative impact on europe's overall potential. so it's important to answer the following two questions. how can the youth guarantee be transformed from a temporary measure into a sustainable instrument? the youth guarantee risks providing only temporary, subsidised employment if parallel measures are not taken to develop the entrepreneurial spirit, skills and improve the business environment for young entrepreneurs. in this context, i propose that the european commission declare 2017 the european year of entrepreneurship. how can the youth guarantee be turned from a good idea into a working tool? it is essential to seek the active participation of employers and trade unions in its implementation. in implementing the guarantee, the parties should also have clear priorities with indicators for their implementation, and should apply an integrated approach with other european financial instruments. the timely answer to these two questions will lead to job creation in the short term and to structural changes in the labour market and added value for the european economy in the long term.
in writing. i voted in favour of the honeyball report because it is a report which recognises prostitution as a gendered phenomenon and which has as its corollary human trafficking for sexual exploitation, which is a serious violation of human rights. on the one hand, almost all of the people who are prostitutes are women, and the consumers are men. and secondly, the vast majority of women who are forced into prostitution, especially when they are victims of human trafficking networks. even where prostitution is considered to be a voluntary professional activity, not only does the underlying problem of gender stereotypes and inequalities remain, but in addition, the fight against sexual exploitation remains, and must remain, a challenge for the authorities. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take measures to ensure that the rights of women are protected in the context of the fight against trafficking in human beings.
a question asked by raising a blue card. madam chairman, i would like to ask the honourable mr brock as chairman of the foreign affairs committee, what is his opinion on the repeal of the language law that was undertaken by the new regime in ukraine? this abolition takes away the rights of national minorities such as the bulgarian minority, which has lived in ukraine for 200 years. i would like to ask you if you think this is a positive pro-european step, because i think it is not.
madam president, i think so far there is a broad consensus in this house that we will strongly support ukraine towards political and economic reforms. but let us face it: there is no easy way out of the complex situation in the country. the post-soviet legacy of ukraine is dominated by oligarchs and weak institutions which further complicate the task of dealing with the present deep crisis and addressing regional sensitivities. one lesson we are still learning is that the end of the cold war should not be confused with the appearance of the zero-sum games of geopolitics, and both the eu and the new leaders in ukraine should be aware of, and deal wisely and constructively with, the russian concerns – and of course we expect russia to behave accordingly. this is no time for mistakes. one very recent mistake, as already mentioned by a number of colleagues, is the revocation of the law on the special status of ethnic minorities’ languages. this, among other things, concerns the rights of the bulgarian minority in ukraine as well. but let us also consider the fact that there is a huge minority russian-speaking population, and such actions undertaken in a hurry could have important consequences. the ukrainian people and politicians face huge challenges, but they are not alone. if they move forward decisively, we should not disappoint them. these are crucial times. let us all invest all our efforts in moving ukraine forward.
commissioner, i want to ask you a question right away. is there a connection between the signing of the russia-bulgaria south stream agreement and subsequent events, because this agreement was signed immediately before ukraine refused to join the association agreement with the european union? and second, yes, the ukrainian people were right, they should have overthrown the yanukovych regime, but what's next? i remember a year or two ago, we were just as excited and we were throwing a lot of fancy talk about the arab regimes when they fell. and what happened in their place, what came, did it come better? the bible says, "by their fruits you will know them". and the first act of this newly reformed verkhovna rada was discrimination against minorities. is that right? is it right for tymoshenko, the gas princess, to return?
mr president, for iraq 2013 is said to have been the bloodiest year since the end of the war. we, the liberals, are deeply concerned about the deteriorating security situation for the population of iraq, particularly the iraqi turkmen. the european parliament resolution adopted on 14[nbsp ]march[nbsp ] 2013 was a welcome step forward but was not enough given the current situation. today, the cultural, religious and economic damage inflicted on the turkmen population is still highly visible and cannot be ignored by the european union. we should not forget all the incidents which took place in the cities of tuz khurmatu and kirkuk, where the month of january was particularly deadly, with fourteen explosions which killed a total of twenty turkmen and injured 163 others, illustrating the profound tensions between ethnic groups in iraq and increasing the risk of the iraqi people becoming involved in a civil war. for this reason, the european union must pay close attention to the deteriorating human rights situation of the iraqi turkmen, not only because it is our duty but also because this situation is directly associated with stability in the wider middle east region. i therefore ask the commission and the eeas to exert further pressure on the iraqi government to reach a peaceful solution for the turkmen of iraq in order to avoid the situation intensifying beyond repair.
mr president, while it is true that the european visa policy cannot be conceived independently of other union policies and that it is conditional on the achievement of other sectoral objectives, its initial objective - the strengthening of the area of freedom, security and justice - must not be undermined. strengthening the area of freedom, security and justice does not mean, however, that we close our doors and barricade ourselves. no, we must be able to open up, facilitate access to the free movement area, but by establishing clear criteria to which we adhere. the proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 539/2001, on which we will be voting shortly, should enable us to respond better to this imperative. we now have an article 1, which sets out the criteria on which we base the exemption of third country nationals from the visa requirement for short stays. with the addition of fundamental rights and freedoms as a key criterion, we are also sending a strong message about european values in our external relations. the last amendment to the same regulation also provided us with a suspension mechanism. here again we have clear criteria. it will be enough for member states to make responsible use of it so that the visa exemption for nationals of certain countries does not threaten security in the european union. finally, reciprocity is one of the criteria to which special attention should be paid. what more can the union do to ensure that reciprocity is actually respected? the citizens of bulgaria and romania are waiting for answers, because the future of the european visa policy must be both a step forward for our partner countries and a clear signal to our citizens.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me thank the fictitious rapporteurs for the excellent cooperation we have had on this important matter. this is a matter of political importance because it concerns our area of freedom, security and justice. it is also a matter of procedural importance, since the european parliament is for the first time involved in the amendment of this regulation by codecision. i would like to thank the european commission and the greek presidency for the constructive dialogue and the efforts made to reach an agreement at the end of a third trilogue. this agreement allows us to have, instead of a simple recital, a first article which clarifies the criteria on which the transfer from the negative to the positive list is based. we focus on human rights and fundamental freedoms, which are dear to our institution. for peru and colombia, the transition from the negative to the positive list is subject to an assessment by the european commission. i would ask the commission to provide this evaluation as soon as possible. finally, our right to information will be respected, since we will now be informed twice a year about the negotiations in progress. i thank all those who will support this report and thus help to strengthen the message that this parliament is sending to the citizens of these nineteen countries.
in writing. - prostitution and sexual exploitation are a form of violence against women and a violation of human dignity and gender equality. an increasing number of women and girls are becoming victims of trafficking, with trafficking coming not only from third countries but also from some member states. the eu must therefore urgently address the problem of trafficking from east to west and take strong measures to counter this particular form of violence against women. the exploitation in the sex industry that is both the cause and the consequence of gender inequality perpetuates the idea that women's and girls' bodies are for sale and that is why it must be stopped.
in writing. - i voted for the report. there's a lot of speculation with an old-fashioned adage that prostitution is the oldest profession. i find it difficult to accept such a definition because it does not fit into either the politics of equality or the understanding of human rights. attempts to legalize prostitution mean not only that it is recognized as a profession but that it is viewed as normal and proper. it is undeniable that the rise of prostitution is associated with the rise of poverty, the economic dependence of women and the breakdown of values. the consequences of prostitution are also undeniable: increased violence against women, including young women and girls, trafficking of women, /and children/, psychological and physical trauma of victims and their relatives. against this background, the commission and the member states are obliged to take measures to restrict prostitution, by criminalising demand and supply, by information and education programmes, including in schools, by limiting the treatment of women as sexual objects, which is common in advertising.
in writing. - i supported the present proposal of the european commission to improve the operation of the solvit network. solvit itself is a highly useful online network for informal resolution of crossborder disputes between citizens or businesses and national administrations across the eu arising from the incorrect application of single market rules. over 1000 cases are resolved effectively and free of charge every year thanks to the network, which helps citizens to defend their european rights without going to court. any citizen can turn to solvit when they have a problem with a foreign administration in the recognition of educational or professional qualifications, health insurance, pension rights and more. i welcome the proposal to improve the operation of the network, because many citizens are still unaware of its existence. information on its activities should be disseminated through the various information channels of the european institutions and by national administrations themselves. increasing the popularity and visibility of solvit is one of the sure ways to exploit the full potential of the european single market. the proposals for the development of solvit 2.0 should be supported because it is one of the proven tools for the swift and effective resolution of administrative disputes across the eu and is a valuable mechanism for every european citizen.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it contributes to the implementation of the fundamental european right of free movement of european citizens. the purpose of this decision is to authorise croatia and cyprus to recognise certain travel documents of third-country nationals and to recognise visas of certain member states as equivalent to their national documents. this means that member states outside the schengen area will benefit from a simplified system of checks on persons at the external borders. this regime applies for a transitional period and its implementation is provided for in the accession treaties of these countries. the abolition of internal borders requires the adoption of strict rules on the entry and residence of third-country nationals and the reinforcement of controls at the union's external borders. this legislative act is important,in particular because it lays down the rules necessary for such a simplified scheme. it represents an important step towards creating an area of freedom, security and justice.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it contributes to the definition of a common visa policy which ensures the security of external borders, while facilitating travel opportunities for third-country nationals. the regulation is updated with an extension of the list of third countries exempt from the visa requirement, adding 16 acp countries, peru, colombia and the united arab emirates, and also including certain categories of british overseas citizens. a central point of the report concerns the criteria for evaluating third countries, which are included in one article and which emphasise human rights and fundamental freedoms and economic benefits, particularly in the areas of tourism and foreign trade. the clear definition of the criteria and their inclusion in the legal text contributes to transparency and sends a strong message to citizens. visa liberalisation strengthens cooperation between the union and third countries and gives substance to the principle of free movement, which is one of the fundamental rights of the european union.
in writing. - the actions of the responsible political factors in ukraine will determine whether the country will take the path of stability or take a step back towards confrontation and division. the eu, russia and the us should not treat ukraine as an arena for geopolitical battles, but as a partner in dire need of support. two steps are important at this point: support for all efforts to ensure internal stability until the elections on 25 may and strong support for ukraine's european course. i cannot but express my concern about the repeal of the law on the regional status of minority languages. such a move was unwarranted and confrontational, and not what the country needs right now. i am also concerned about the growing trend towards the drawing of dividing lines and the banning of political parties, which is contrary to european values and the basic principles of democracy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by louis michel on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union in 2012, because although i do not support all the provisions proposed in this report, it seems to me that it highlights the need for additional safeguards and increased vigilance to protect human rights in the european union. some existing mechanisms are not fully used, such as referral to the cjeu by the council or the commission. human rights are our core values, which we promote relentlessly in our external relations, and therefore we must be intransigent with ourselves. it is necessary to ensure that no complacency or tacit agreement to turn a blind eye can take place between the member states of the union. the report also pays great attention to women's rights and the promotion of gender equality.
in writing. - i supported the report by baroness ludford calling on the commission to initiate changes to the legislation governing the european arrest warrant (eaw). the european arrest warrant is one of a set of instruments in community law based on the principles of mutual recognition and cooperation between judicial authorities. the epc framework agreement, adopted in 2002, regulated the scope and conditions for the detention and transfer of persons from one eu member state to another for the purpose of prosecution or the execution of a sentence of imprisonment. since its introduction, the commission has presented three reports on the implementation of the eaw. among the reasons for today's report are the findings that, despite the overall positive effect of the introduction of the mechanism, there are still various problems in its implementation in practice, including those related to the gravity of the acts for which an eaw is sought, as well as those related to the respect of human rights. the majority support for baroness ludford's report in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs shows the need to draw up amendments to overcome the shortcomings identified so far. only through concrete, balanced measures can we achieve the great goal of making the union an area of freedom, justice and security.
mr. chairman, i heard what the commissioner said and frankly i can't believe my ears! two committees of this parliament almost unanimously voted against the commission's proposal and you, commissioner, are trying to say that perhaps the parliamentarians in those committees are too stupid to understand your great idea, it is smarter than the elected members of this parliament. i cannot agree with your arguments about traditional varieties either, because it has been proven that your proposal would have wiped out one of the most traditional bulgarian agricultural varieties - the pink tomato. and let me remind you at this point that when tomatoes go bad and people are unhappy, they use that fruit for one purpose only: to throw it at politicians. don't put yourself in that position and take your hands off bulgarian agriculture at last and specifically the pink tomato.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a dilemma: to accept an attempt to manipulate the market for planting material by accepting the european commission's proposal, or to maintain the legislation currently in force and the right of the member states and their agricultural operators to preserve local diversity. why don't i take this offer? it will create enormous bureaucratic obstacles for small farmers in connection with the single registration of varieties. it will destroy many indigenous varieties with proven qualities and sustainability at the expense of high yield newly selected varieties, but without the necessary taste qualities. after all, commissioner, it's about food. i believe that the countries should be given the right to regulate these processes themselves, respecting common principles, including those relating to the protection of varieties from genetic modification, and at the same time supporting local production.
mr. chairman, i hold in my hands the brand new, adopted a few days ago electoral code of the republic of bulgaria. i leave it to you to assess how it is possible that just three months, even less than three months before the forthcoming european elections, a completely new electoral legislation can be adopted. but there are texts in this code that contradict and are in breach of the act on the direct election of representatives to the european parliament. and something else very important was done behind the scenes. for the first time, the opening of branches in countries outside the european union is allowed. ninety percent of the bulgarian citizens who vote are in the republic of turkey and in fact they are first and foremost turkish citizens. and so in the upcoming elections, for the first time in history, we will witness not only european representatives but also anatolian representatives.
mr. president, long before bulgarian citizens were granted the right to move and work freely in all eu member states, we witnessed the deliberately instigated hysteria of the mass invasion of bulgarians on january 1, 2014 in the uk, germany and other countries. today we can say with certainty that it did not. however, the bitter aftertaste of the unfair treatment of bulgarian citizens, proclaimed at the highest european and national levels in some of the member states, remained. it's got the flavor of double standards. i have not heard or read an apology or denial from my colleague farage or from the official authorities in the united kingdom that the "great misery suffered by the bulgarian citizens" simply did not happen. silence, my colleagues. i call on the members of the european parliament to show solidarity with the european values for the preservation of which they are here in this parliament, and not to exploit the fears of their fellow citizens for their own political or personal ends.
mr president, by adopting this report we must show the maturity of people who are able to learn the lessons of the situations they are going through. the eastern partnership is being tested because only some of the countries are clear supporters and we do not see any dissatisfaction or hesitation among them. these are european countries. it is only natural that they should aspire to the common european values. the question is whether and to what extent the european union will be able to exploit the potential for integration in the economic, social and moral aspects for the citizens of these countries, while preserving their ethnic, linguistic and cultural diversity and sovereignty. there is no revolutionary enthusiasm. with the eastern partnership, we have a chance to overcome at least some of the problems that we have managed to generate in relations with ukraine. let's look for deeper cooperation in education and civic cooperation. it is precisely the challenges facing our relations with ukraine that should make our messages clearer, more concrete, more precise to the eastern partnership countries, which should become a partnership of mutual interest.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the money laundering regulation. uniform rules will produce results in this battle. now you who have ruled bulgaria will have problems. there's always doubt about them, but there's no results. an example of this is the 39 candidates for the ataka parliamentary elections, bound by a record of orders for 6 million euros, to which the judicial system does not react. the rulers walked into parliament, but left with a lot of property, their relatives got banks and economic empires from criminal privatization. once the agreed rules have entered into force, a european-wide action must be launched. in bulgaria, only external pressure would have any effect, because all money laundering starts with theft, and the biggest theft is committed by the rulers, and to show the european commission that it is not a mother for them, but a stepmother for the citizens, it must start from the top.
i just want to say, madam president, in connection with what mr schulz said a moment ago, that the attack on the bunovo station 29 years ago, on 9 march, when people were also killed by fundamentalists, was also a tragedy. i will say this in english because there is no interpretation. i want to mention the bombing at bunovo railway station 29 years ago on 9 march 1985. innocent people were also killed on this day because of fundamentalism and terrorism.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal from the committee on transport and tourism on periodic roadworthiness tests for motor vehicles and their trailers, as i believe it will help to establish minimum requirements for the periodic roadworthiness test regime for vehicles used on roads open to public use. overall, the kuhn report proposes common, eu-wide minimum standards for vehicle inspections. this is to the advantage of the member states, as they are free to go further and it is more appropriate to introduce higher standards.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal from the committee on transport and tourism on vehicle registration, as i believe that the application of vehicle registration documents issued by member states is of the utmost importance to ensure compliance with the rules laid down by the law of the country concerned. the proposal allows member states to assist each other by exchanging information at bilateral and multilateral level, in particular to check, before any registration of a vehicle, the legal status of the latter, if necessary in the member state in which it was previously registered. in general, the savisar-thomas report extends the use of a vehicle on the road. this authorisation shall be given visible expression by affixing the registration plate to the vehicle and issuing a registration certificate.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal from the committee on transport and tourism on the roadworthiness of commercial vehicles, as i believe it will help to improve road safety and the state of the environment by establishing minimum requirements for the roadside inspection regime for commercial vehicles travelling in the territory of the member states. overall, the sehnalova report adopts road safety policy guidelines to achieve the stated goal of potentially reducing the number of road fatalities between 2010 and 2020. the report also proposed a two-pronged strategy to improve vehicle safety, including strengthening eu legislation on roadworthiness tests.
in writing. - i voted for this report because it confirms the commitment to carrying out high-quality and comprehensive studies of the structure of european farms, a factor in the successful implementation of the cap. such surveys have been carried out throughout the european union since 1966 - harmonised and based on legislative acts. in order to comply with the information requirements, member states and the commission should allocate a significant financial resource. it is therefore necessary to ensure adequate funding for the study in 2016 as well as for related projects. i therefore welcome the possibility of the eu funding up to 75% of the member states' expenditure. in addition, in order to ensure that agricultural statistics meet high quality requirements and to ensure the most efficient use of the information collected, improvements to the methodology are necessary. the administrative burden on the national statistical institutes should be reduced, while meeting emerging new information needs. because qualitative analysis is the first step towards meeting the needs of farmers.
in writing. - i voted for this report because it reflects the successes of the committee on petitions not only in 2013 but throughout its mandate, and outlines the prospects for the next five years. the report shows a steady trend of an increase in the number of registered petitions. therefore, in order to meet the expectations of citizens, the european parliament must take urgent measures to ensure an efficient and transparent process for the examination of petitions. an important step in this direction is the development of the new internet portal of the committee on petitions as an effective platform to better inform citizens about their right to petition. another important moment was the declaration of 2013 as the 'european year of citizens', which highlighted the role of the committee on petitions as a democratic instrument to help them exercise these rights. also in the light of 2013 - the european year of citizens - the committee on petitions has played an important role in spreading the word about the new european citizens' initiative and in providing clear and understandable guidance on its implementation. that is why i voted for this report, because it shows the successful examples so far and gives clear guidelines for the future work of the committee on petitions.
in writing. - i voted for this report because it is a step forward towards a more sustainable and competitive horticulture in europe. the fruit and vegetables sector generates 18% of the total value of agricultural production in the eu, although it receives only 3% of the cap payments. at the same time, the eu is the world's largest producer of flowers, bulbs and succulents. i am therefore pleased that my colleagues agreed with me that it is necessary to promote the consumption of fruit and vegetables in the member states through educational activities such as the eu school fruit scheme. it is also necessary to strengthen the position of producers through enhanced cooperation and better internal organisation of farmers. this is the only way to ensure that they receive a sufficient return when dealing with large buyers and retailers. the commission should therefore work more closely with the sector to ensure that advisory services to support their business are easily accessible. i therefore voted for this report because it calls for greater and more multilateral support for farmers in the field of horticulture.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the eradication of torture in the world because torture continues to affect millions of people worldwide, despite the fact that it constitutes a serious violation of human rights and that there is already an international legal framework against torture. the report has the merit of explicitly identifying female genital mutilation as a form of torture and condemning all forms of violence against women, including honour killings and early marriages, which are also forms of torture. the report rightly encourages dialogue on the eradication of torture in foreign policy, in bilateral relations, through the union delegations, but also in multilateral relations, such as those governed by the cotonou agreement. it also deals with the prevention of human rights violations and the training of public officials, who in some countries are guilty of torture. the text also proposes concrete elements to make existing international conventions more operational, but which have so far failed to put an end to the spread of torture.
mr president, in the second decade of the 21st century, we can say that a large part of our lives is lived in the electronic space, we live it in social networks, we live it in our video channels, we live it through our e-mail accounts, through the messages we send, through the internet. i wouldn't say there's a big difference anymore between our physical home, where we live physically, and actually all of these things that i've listed that make up our electronic home. it should be as inviolable as our physical home. so i fully support the proposals that have been made for the electronic freedoms act, for the electronic habeas corpus act. but until that happens, we can't let this situation continue. until we have clear rules on transparency, we cannot continue to transfer data to the united states national security agency. so the agreements with the united states must be repealed and renegotiated when we have a system in place to control the abuses that could be committed.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the creation of a european public prosecutor's office. it will increase citizens' trust in european institutions, it will guarantee uniform application within the european union, especially for countries with serious problems in the judiciary, subject to monitoring, such as bulgaria, where the prosecution is considered one of the most corrupt institutions. i'm sure then politicians who shoot up highways and fight or throw meatballs at airplanes will get what they deserve, no matter how much the ruling class needs them. political appointments are also a problem. this is a measure reserved for all who have ruled until now gerb, bsp, dps and, of course, their helpers from ataka. the european public prosecutor's office will be a guarantor of professionalism and integrity, and will restore the confidence of bulgarian citizens in the institution. i believe the first clients of this office will be the rulers of the country and their assistants.
madam president, yes, at first glance, there does seem to be a logic to the creation of a european public prosecutor's office. there is a reason, there are, of course, abuses of european funds. but we have to answer the question of whether this prosecution will work. that's the main question. because if it doesn't work, it'll just swallow more funds and there'll be no result. and for such a prosecutor's office to work, we need to answer a few basic questions: will we have a common european criminal code? will we have a common european code of criminal procedure? will there be a european court before which this prosecution will bring those accused of crimes? there's a clear answer to all of these things, and it's: no, we can't have them. and i'm not saying that. this is the view of 14 national parliaments, an absolute record in the yellow card procedure. i therefore call on the commission to withdraw its proposal - it is clearly of poor quality - so that we do not repeat the scenes of today's vote, when we reject the commission's proposals by an absolute majority.
madam chairman, what progress, colleagues? will turkey recognize the armenian genocide? no, i'm not going. did you acknowledge the five-century-old bulgarian genocide? no, i'm not going. did you pay the compensation owed to her for the confiscation of thracian refugees in 1913? no, i'm not going. did you release the journalists you've been holding? no, i'm not going. did you sign the readmission agreement? no, i'm not going. now, let's move on to the positive stuff. has turkey put down the protests in istanbul? yeah, he crushed them with police force. so what's different about erdogan and yanukovych? i'm not doing anything. does turkey continue to occupy part of cyprus? it's going on. where are the positive developments? has turkey done anything to end the violence against christians in its country? no, i'm not going. negotiations with turkey must be stopped immediately. the funding she's receiving must be stopped immediately. not turkey in the european union!
madam president, commissioner, mr kurkulas, distinguished colleagues, hundreds of thousands of citizens from taksim and gezi have declared that there is no democracy in turkey. rights and freedoms are being trampled on, as are freedom of assembly, of speech, of the media, freedom of social networks. corruption is everywhere in the upper echelons of power. the government is meddling in the judicial system and repressing any attempt to criticize. examples are the ergikon, the chuck and others. turkey is violating bulgaria's sovereignty by using its large muslim minority to pressure our national policy and carry out neo-ottoman policy and strategy. it is official state policy and provides for the former territories of the ottoman empire to become economically, politically and spiritually dependent on turkey and islam. i believe that turkey has no place in the european union until it has carried out profound constitutional and symbolic reforms leading to democracy and guarantees of its secular character. another essential condition is to start a genuine, honest and open policy of good neighbourliness, equality and non-interference in the internal affairs of bulgaria, greece and cyprus.
mr. president, commissioner, we are discussing a report covering the european union's expectations of turkey. i am deeply concerned that while in brussels we have repeatedly received assurances from the turkish side of its willingness to work towards building good neighbourliness, including in the balkans, leading turkish politicians continue to send messages that call into question the sovereignty of independent states. these are not fictions, these are real facts. the report calls on turkey to fulfil its commitments under international agreements. this is extremely important because turkey continues to fail to fulfill its commitments to bulgaria under the angora treaty related to the compensation of bulgarian thracian refugees. despite the european parliament's resolution of 2008, no progress has been made on this issue. why would you do that? the committee is silent. this is a deficit in turkish politics that must be overcome. the european parliament must protect the rights of its european citizens. the positive signal to turkey should include this problem.
commissioner, the introduction of a single legislation combining single european sky 1 and single european sky 2 is certainly very promising, but in order for this to happen, the moment must be found when the member states are ready to do so. what we've done so far is serious. the liberalisation and separation of air traffic management as proposed by the commission will lead to the concentration of this activity in the hands of larger companies and this will change the national mechanisms that have been in place until now. therefore, the parties should make greater efforts to collaborate. we shouldn't blame them for not being ready to embrace this advanced technology. it is not possible for all this to happen without an impact assessment, including the social impact of this change. yes, we are all for increasing competitiveness, for increasing safety and security, for improving efficiency. but we also need to protect jobs and create greater stability at the national level.
mr president, today's debate has become even more important as the free movement of people has been transformed from a right into a tool of extreme populism and anti-citizen campaigning in newly joined countries, in the invention of absurd rules and policies to deprive especially bulgarians and romanians of the labour market. less than 1 percent of the population of the european union are unemployed immigrants. people go to other member states to work, not to drain social systems. they pay their taxes, they pay their insurance, they develop the economies of these countries. and i don't know where, mr. clark, you've seen the benefit of working for these people. on the contrary, your citizens were threatened that millions of bulgarians would flood the labour markets, for example in the uk, and even some politicians experienced disappointment when on 1 january this year, the millions of bulgarians who were ready to take your jobs did not appear at heathrow. how can you imagine that when our entire country is only 7 million? we need a european methodology that clearly shows how labour markets are affected by the influx of workers from other parts of the european union. it's the only way to prevent europe from falling into the hands of populists and nationalists. fundamental rights and freedoms are not negotiable in any country. (the president accepted to answer a question by raising a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. i'm afraid, mr. clark, that you're reading european law again, like the devil reads the gospel. the european union is a community of rights and freedoms that you systematically violate, to the detriment of people who want to work freely anywhere in europe. otherwise, you wouldn't be in this room.
mr president, colleagues, one of the four freedoms of the european union is increasingly being violated and we are witnessing negative campaigns against bulgarian and romanian citizens legally residing in some of the member states, especially in the uk. in this connection, i welcome the proposal for a directive on free movement and workers' rights in the european union. the establishment of a common framework for better enforcement of the right of free movement of workers and members of their families will contribute to respecting the principle of non-discrimination on grounds of nationality in matters of access to employment, training, working conditions, social rights and others. the lifting of restrictions on access to the labour market for bulgarians and romanians in the uk from 1 january 2014 did not justify fears of an 'immigrant wave'. however, anti-immigration rhetoric continues and also affects bulgarian and romanian students studying in the uk to a significant extent. in november last year, the british government suspended student support loans for bulgarian and romanian students and made their repayment conditional on proof of legal residence for at least three years on the island. this is in direct conflict with the right to non-discrimination on grounds of nationality and calls into question one of the eu's main priorities - the motivation and empowerment of young people in europe. the future and dreams of young europeans must not be compromised by short-term domestic policy objectives. internal mobility has been proven to contribute to the development and competitiveness of the single market, to strengthen the european identity and tolerance of citizens, and to keep europe's potential within its borders. i therefore welcome once again the parliament's proposal for this directive guaranteeing the rights and free movement of workers in the eu.
in writing. the deepening of the problems in ukraine requires us to make a broad situational analysis in order to give the country the necessary support on the path of european integration and to provide it with the necessary political and financial assistance. firstly, it is necessary to deepen the dialogue with the ukrainian parliament and to prepare urgent measures to quell ethnic tensions and preserve ethnic peace as a basis for ensuring the stability and territorial integrity of ukraine. as regards economic aid to ukraine, i believe that it is necessary to discuss its granting on a broader basis in the ep, including the ways in which the ukrainian state should use the funds allocated. an open dialogue will better ensure that the interests of european citizens are protected and will give confidence to ukrainian society in the seriousness of the eu's intentions. we must work to end the military occupation of crimea and to defend the territorial integrity of ukraine, but this is done through dialogue and cooperation with russia, not through a new frozen conflict. an open confrontation with russia would have a negative impact on all future prospects for eu relations with the eastern partnership countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it represents a step forward in cooperation in the field of mobility. the visa facilitation and readmission agreements with azerbaijan go hand in hand and are of both political and procedural importance. as regards technical arrangements, the visa facilitation agreement with azerbaijan provides for simplified and accelerated procedures for citizens. more specifically, it sets a deadline for the administrative procedure and a fee, and reduces the list of required documents. simplified conditions are introduced for certain categories of persons and diplomats are fully exempted from the visa requirement for short stays. in addition to the procedural advantages, the visa agreement is proof of the desire expressed for years by the european union and azerbaijan to move closer together in a continuous and thorough manner. finally, with the adoption of the two reports, the union is sending a strong political signal to the other members of the eastern partnership.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it represents an essential step in the deepening of relations between the european union and azerbaijan in the framework of the eastern partnership. the adoption of this report is important because the agreement establishes the readmission procedure on the basis of full reciprocity. the agreement must also be implemented in a way that guarantees respect for human rights. as regards technical arrangements, the agreement introduces an accelerated procedure and includes a section on transit operations. it shall specify the rules on readmission and the categories of persons to whom they apply. from now on, readmission obligations will also apply to family members. the report also makes a recommendation to the commission to inform the european parliament at each stage of the results of the implementation of the agreements, in accordance with the principle of good cooperation between the institutions. finally, the readmission agreement is one of the proofs of the desire expressed by the european union and azerbaijan for years for a continuous and deepened rapprochement.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which proposes recommendations to the council to strengthen efforts in the framework of humanitarian policy to protect children in armed conflict. this is an emergency as an estimated 250,000 to 800,000 children are currently engaged in armed conflict, particularly in the central african republic, the democratic republic of the congo and uganda with the lra, which for decades now has been recruiting child soldiers, sexually exploiting little girls, who then grow into adults with very little chance of finding a place in society and becoming actors in post-conflict development and reconciliation. the report points out that the recruitment of children by armed groups falls within the jurisdiction of the international criminal court. i would like to stress even more the problem of the demobilization and reintegration of child soldiers: we must offer real alternatives to life in armed groups, so that children can return to school and be particularly aware of respect for human rights, especially when they have spent several years in these armed groups.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it contributes to improving the application of european legislation on the free movement of workers. the report focuses on the means needed to enforce the right to free movement of migrant workers within the union. this right is one of the basic elements of european citizenship. this report is important because it provides for measures to reduce unjustified obstacles to the mobility of workers within the union. it shall adopt practical measures to ensure that the principle of equal treatment of workers is respected. it specifies the specific areas in which discrimination on grounds of nationality is prohibited, such as access to employment and housing, working conditions and social and tax benefits. in particular, the introduction of a provision on the victimization of workers, improved cooperation at national and european level to facilitate access to information and assistance, and the strengthening of the rights of workers' family members should be welcomed. the report proposes a balanced legislative text to ensure the application of the fundamental right to free movement of workers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal from the committee on industry, research and energy on the 'copernicus' programme, as i believe it will help to establish 'copernicus', a union programme for earth observation and monitoring, by laying down the rules for its implementation. i believe that the 'copernicus' programme is of great importance to users, as it builds on existing national and european capacities and ensures continuity with the activities carried out under the 'global monitoring for environment and security' programme. overall, the prodi report presents developments under the 'copernicus' programme, which provides data and information from space and ground observations that contribute to environmental protection, civil protection and security, and ultimately to economic growth. the possible agreement on the mff will also guarantee the earmarking of an amount in the eu budget.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal from the committee on industry, research and energy on the european gnss agency, as i believe it is of particular importance that eu classified information is handled and protected by all interested parties in accordance with the basic principles and minimum standards laid down in the commission and council's security rules. the risk assessment and management approach to be applied shall follow best practices. overall, the sartori report mainly addresses governance issues related to security accreditation, but also aligns the regulation on the european gnss agency with the common approach on decentralised agencies adopted by the parliament, the council and the commission in july 2012. in addition, the changes proposed in the legislative financial statement to reflect the new tasks of the european gnss agency are of particular importance from a budgetary point of view.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the foreign affairs committee's proposal on the evaluation and prioritisation of the eu's relations with the eastern partnership countries, as i believe that it offers proposals for the future that emerge at a certain moment (during the economic crisis in europe, after the eastern partnership summit in vilnius, at the end of the 2009-2014 eu parliamentary term, when its role is growing). i therefore think that the ep should present an ambitious proposal that shows our openness and commitment to the development of the european project.
in writing. - i voted for this report because it gives an adequate overview of the main achievements related to european citizenship and the guidelines for the areas where further efforts are needed to strengthen the rights of eu citizens. i welcome the attention he has paid to the need for member states to give more space in their curricula to political education on eu-related issues. it is essential for participation in democratic, social and cultural life. an important point highlighted by the report is the transparency and fairness in the organisation of electoral campaigns by political parties in the run-up to the 2014 european parliament elections. on transparency, i support the rapporteur on the need for all union institutions to make access to documents easy to use, as this allows citizens to participate more closely in the decision-making process. i believe that further efforts are needed to remove obstacles to citizens enjoying their rights to free movement or to vote in local elections, as well as cross-border obstacles on civil or social issues such as family law or pensions. that is why i voted for this report, because it is a step forward towards citizens being able to enjoy the full benefits of eu citizenship.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i supported the european parliament's resolution on the 2013 eu citizenship report, as it proposes 12 new key initiatives of particular importance to young people. one of them is the initiative to overcome barriers to students and trainees in the eu by introducing a quality framework for traineeships and reforming the eures labour mobility network. freedom of movement is a prerequisite for mobility, including that of young people for work, training and traineeships, which in turn can help to compensate for the shortage of staff in certain areas in some member states. i therefore welcome the quality framework for traineeships proposed by the commission in december 2013, which seeks to strike a balance between gaining valuable experience and skills on the one hand, and guaranteeing trainees' rights on the other. the three elements of the eures reform will enable a smoother transition for young people to employment through the exchange of more and more accessible information between member states on potential traineeships, automatic linking of available cvs to current job vacancies, support in the application process and provision of information on the member state of preference for work. europe is showing that young people are as important to it as it is to them!
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the fictitious rapporteurs on the long and hard work they have put in and the results they have achieved. i would then like to emphasize several elements which, in my view, enable us to strengthen our area of freedom, security and justice. first, three comments on the package as a whole. firstly, we should welcome the fact that political dialogue has been established before the national programmes are defined. we will thus have better coordination between member states and, above all, a stronger common and shared responsibility for the management of migration and asylum applications. secondly, the retroactivity clause applied from january 2014 is particularly welcome, especially regarding emergency aid, as it goes without saying that bulgaria had to deal with the influx of syrian refugees and seek solidarity from other member states. thirdly, the communication to the european parliament of the results of the political dialogue and of the national programmes before their adoption is a positive element in accordance with the lisbon treaty. with regard to the asylum and migration fund, i shall simply stress the need to ensure the application of the principle of coherence between actions undertaken under the fund in third countries to regulate migration flows to the union and external policy, in particular development policy. this is a crucial element if we are to give visibility and credibility not only to our migration policy but also to the union's external action. finally, with regard to the internal security fund, i hope that the concentration of police cooperation for prevention and repression in a single instrument will enable us to put an end to human trafficking, which is obviously one of the drivers of illegal emigration to the european union.
i want to congratulate commissioner malmström and sylvie guillaume because they have not only produced a very good document, but they have also proposed a new, even better and different philosophy for managing asylum and migration funds. in order to achieve its objectives, the fund must be accessible, flexible, take into account the specificities of the member states, potential hotspots of instability and likely new waves of immigration. solidarity and responsibility-sharing by member states are key. the countries on the external borders of the european union should benefit from certain preferences from the fund, as they bear the greatest burden. we also need to change the mechanism of allocation of funds. the minimum financial threshold has been in place since 2011 and is not fair for countries like bulgaria and italy. the percentage increase over the last three years does not reflect the current situation either. the period for interim evaluations should be shortened to meet the needs for timely intervention to ensure the security of the european union.
mr president, i would very much like to thank the commission, and especially vice-president kroes, for submitting not only this directive but the whole package related to cyber-security, which is very important for all the european citizens and companies that are using the global network very extensively. i would also include in this package the cyber-security strategy, the extension of the mandate of enisa that we also worked on together in parliament, and this directive about network and information security. there are three questions that this directive has to answer. who has to report and to disclose information if there are breaches of security? what kind of information has to be reported? to whom is this information to be reported? being about disclosure, this directive very rightly incentivises the businesses and companies and the enablers of the internet to take extra care when it comes to internet security. in order to give businesses safety, we have to be as precise as possible in answering these questions. i am not satisfied that the public sector, as originally proposed in the draft directive, is no longer in the draft which this house is to vote on tomorrow. i do not think that only the private sector should have to report, with the public sector being excluded from that. i would not agree with including software and hardware producers, because that would very much impede the work of small and medium-sized companies, including internet developers. reporting to different entities or single points of contact in the different countries without having a uniform reporting mechanism, for example to the national computer emergency response teams, carries the risk of creating different cultures in the different member states when dealing with this type of information. this is very important, since when a company is active in several member states, an arbitrage in a regulation might create difficulties and additional problems for companies working on this market. another question that needs to be answered before the final adoption of this directive is that of two-way information. it is not only about reporting to the single point of contact but also about giving back information to the companies as to how this process will be dealt with in the future.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i welcome the debate on the proposed regulation on the financing of three organisations, namely the international financial reporting standards foundation, the european financial reporting advisory group and the public interest oversight board. let me first thank, from the bottom of my heart, the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs and the committee on economic and monetary affairs for their hard work and participation in discussions on the financing proposal. the proposed beneficiary organisations play a key role in the elaboration of international accounting and auditing standards. high-quality international financial reporting and audit rules are essential for the sake of transparency, comparability, the smooth functioning of the global capital markets and an integrated market for financial services in the eu. it is therefore of paramount importance to ensure that the eu’s interests are properly taken into account in the process. to achieve this objective it is necessary that the eu participates in the financing of those organisations. it is beyond doubt that, without an adequate financial contribution, our ability to influence the strategic activities of these organisations would be very limited. at the same time, our financial contribution must not come without any conditions. we need to ensure that the beneficiary organisations act in the public interest in the most appropriate manner. this is the main idea behind the commitments undertaken by the commission in the framework of the proposed financing regulation. these commitments include, first of all, the implementation of governance reforms in efrag following recommendations provided last year by mr[nbsp ]maystadt, who acted as a special adviser to commissioner barnier. in order to ensure proper and timely implementation of those reforms, commissioner barnier asked mr[nbsp ]maystadt to continue his mission and to duly supervise the process in line with the trilogue agreement. parliament will receive a report on the implementation of efrag reforms by the end of march. it is expected that substantial progress in introducing the reforms will have been achieved by that date. the commission will, of course, keep parliament informed on the further advancement of efrag reforms. secondly, the commitments made by the commission also relate to the iasb and more generally to the current evaluation of the ias regulation concerning the application of the ifrs in europe. the commission will carry out evaluation scrupulously and with due impartiality. in this respect i would like to note that a study contract which raised certain doubts over the independence of selected contractors has been terminated. this decision does not detract from our determination to carry out the evaluation. finally, during the december trilogues, commissioner barnier clarified that this evaluation will also cover the questions linked to the governance of the iasb, taking into account in particular the role of the monitoring board. i would like to confirm that this commitment will be fully complied with. furthermore, i would like to draw your attention to the recent decision by the monitoring board to deal with the long-term investment topic following an initiative by the commission. this is a very positive development that we should build on. i am very grateful to the rapporteur, mr stolojan, who has successfully led the negotiations, to the shadow rapporteurs and the committee on economic and monetary affairs, chaired by ms bowles, for their political will and commitment, which has resulted in a well-balanced compromise text for the regulation. parliamentʼs agreement on the financing proposal is of great importance for the european union. it is also necessary to be able to exert influence on the activities of the beneficiary organisations for the benefit of eu businesses. they need a high-quality, stable accounting framework to support their recovery and contribute to growth.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. mr. chairman, this report is as technical as it is prosaic. thank you to mr. stollozhan, who has managed to shed maximum light on this subject, which is certainly a very complex subject for citizens. things are very clear. we need independent bodies to draw up international accounting standards, european accounting standards and auditing standards. the resources required for this are, so to speak, negligible, so we see no problem with this report. i urge my colleagues to support him. as regards the role of the legal affairs committee, we have made proposals which relate to greater transparency in the reporting of the funds provided and the possibility of influencing the management of the beneficiary companies that will receive the funds. it also gives parliament greater scrutiny over delegated acts.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, this budget for 2015 will be a special one because of the procedure, because we have the european elections coming up and there will be a new parliament which will finalise the work on the 2015 budget, and because there will be changes in the commission. hopefully within the present commission we can at least decide on the general lines of the 2015 budget, but in any case i think it is very important to stick to a logic and a rationale from the different institutions that will allow the continuity of the budgetary process, which is very important. this year we are seeing some slight signs of recovery in the european economy, and maybe next year they will be a bit more visible. at the same time, at national level, we still have quite acute consolidation efforts for the national budgets and for fiscal policies that do not allow the member states to invest – particularly in different types of projects that would enhance and stimulate this recovery, the very early stages of which we are seeing at the moment. the european funds and european money are going to be very important in 2015 in order to compensate for that. when adopting the multiannual financial framework, we agreed to front-load some of the investments in 2014 and 2015. i am very concerned about whether this is actually going to happen, whether the commission and the member states will be able to take the necessary measures in order to absorb this front-loading that has been decided already. i think that this is something we very much have to focus on. secondly, the council, as expected, called on parliament to stick to the ceilings that had been adopted with the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020, which is maybe normal, but it is not that normal if we add to that the ever-increasing sum of outstanding payments. at the end of last year there were more than eur[nbsp ]23 billion of them, and again we will come back to the question of payments in the budget and say very clearly that it is very difficult to carry over from the previous financial framework into a new one with practically decreased ceilings and to pay bills from the previous budget. as i think you mentioned, commissioner, the member states have to be prepared to use all the mechanisms in order to fulfil their tasks, including going to contingency margins, including whenever there is a new emergency or a new project to think about new sources of financing. this budget cannot be restructured and money cannot be redirected for other emergencies. you mentioned humanitarian aid and different areas in the world where we have emergencies at the moment. maybe next year there will be more. in the first year of the new financial framework we already have no possibility to reshuffle, redistribute and cover the political commitments of the european union for these emergencies. with regard to the next steps, and before the finalisation of this budget, i would call, firstly, for us to be absolutely ready to report a full and efficient absorption of the front-loading that we have agreed, showing results. secondly, we need to be prepared to use all the possibilities, including the contingency margin for 2015. thirdly, we need to be very clear that any new project, any new emergency or whatever, has to be financed with additional funds, and this budget does not allow any further flexibility.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it proposes concrete recommendations for the establishment of coordination mechanisms which could ensure coherence between internal policies and development objectives. this reflection is particularly important as we approach 2015, the year in which we will take stock, and as we already need to prepare the post-2015 framework for development. it should be stressed that this report encourages a concentration of priorities in development policy, in order to better achieve a small number of objectives. a crucial element that has rightly been highlighted is that of coordination, not only at the level of the european union in a transversal way within the commission's college and in parliament through greater cooperation between parliamentary committees, but also between member states and with the union. better coordination would reduce costs and fragmentation of policies and programmes. thirdly, the role of the union delegations is highlighted to enable the dialogue and evaluation needed to ensure policy coherence for development. finally, i am pleased to see the role of women highlighted in this report.
member of the commission. - mr president, let me start by thanking the rapporteur, mrs willmott, as well as the shadow rapporteurs, for their hard work and excellent cooperation throughout the evolution of this important proposal. i agree with the rapporteur that i would have preferred a more ambitious conclusion, particularly with regard to time frames, but i think that what we have, considering that politics is the art of the possible, is a good compromise. let me mention in particular what the rapporteur has just highlighted, as she did throughout the negotiations as well, namely that this regulation will benefit, first and foremost, european patients and all european citizens – not just the european pharmaceutical industry. why? because clinical trials are key to the development of new medicines and to improving, comparing and refining treatments using already authorised medicines. sometimes these trials can even represent the last hope for patients suffering from rare or serious conditions, as we have just heard from the rapporteur. in addition to benefiting patients, by promoting research and investment, including inward investment from outside the european union, clinical trials can also make an important contribution to growth and jobs. the new regulation also aims to address the fact that in recent years clinical trials in the eu have declined by around 25%, while administrative costs and resource needs have doubled and delays have increased by 90%. so there is an urgent need to act, to retain clinical trials in europe and to increase their numbers for the benefit of patients and industry alike. at the same time, high-level protection of the subjects involved in such trials must be ensured: so swifter trials, but at the same time maintaining patient safety. the text agreed on, which we have before us today, addresses – and i believe can meet – these challenges. the key features are: firstly a streamlined application procedure via a single entry point, the eu portal, and a single set of documents to be prepared and submitted for the application. secondly, a harmonised procedure for the assessment of applications for clinical trials, which will eliminate duplications and unnecessary delays, and – perhaps most importantly of all – the extension of the so-called tacit agreement principle to the whole authorisation process which, without compromising safety, will give sponsors – in particular smes and academics – increased legal certainty. so there is a time frame and, if there is no reaction within that time frame, it is presumed that the authorisation is approved. thirdly, simplified reporting procedures which will spur sponsors away from submitting broadly identical information separately to various bodies and in different member states; increased transparency regarding clinical trials and their outcomes, even in cases where something is refused, amended or approved. moreover – and this is an important point – clinical trials that are conducted outside the eu but which are referred to in a clinical trial application within the eu – so where the clinical trial takes place outside the eu but the application for an authorisation of medicine takes place within the eu – will have to comply with regulatory requirements at least equivalent to those applicable inside the european union. finally, the commission will be able to carry out controls, both in the member states and in third countries, to ensure that the rules on clinical trials are being properly supervised and enforced. let me conclude by emphasising once again the importance of this regulation which you will be voting on today. it will foster clinical research in europe and will increase the hope of finding solutions for the many patients for whom currently there is no effective treatment available.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. - mr president, let me first warmly congratulate glenis on all her work and for having successfully led the great team work on the parliament side, achieving a result which i think we can be proud of. on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) and as the shadow rapporteur for the alde group, let me stress that, despite some remaining reluctance on the side of the member states, this piece of legislation is a clear signal to european patients, researchers, academics, doctors and industry that the eu is addressing the future of research and development, being the most relevant level at which to act. safety, transparency and attractiveness have been the key principles defended by my political group and i am glad to see that these priorities are well reflected in the final agreement. we need to attract research in europe for patients to benefit swiftly from innovation. we need a functional and effective legal framework at eu level to maintain the competitiveness of our industry and create jobs, and we need transparency and evidence-based decision-making when it comes to public health policies and priorities. we achieved all these demands through the negotiating process with the council and the commission. once more may i thank glenis warmly for this wonderful agreement. parliament has been decisive in making the difference for patients and for independent and transparent research. i therefore welcome very much the conclusion of this agreement and the regulation to be implemented in the future, which my group will fully support during the vote tonight.
i would first like to thank the rapporteur, mrs herzog, for her excellent work, because high-speed broadband infrastructure is the backbone of the digital single market and a prerequisite for europe's global competitiveness. i believe that this directive is the right step for europe and will enable us to achieve our 2020 targets and to successfully reap the benefits of an integrated and fully functioning digital single market. it will contribute to the competitiveness of the european economy and to the long-term sustainable economic and social benefits for european citizens through this high-speed internet. i fully support the rapporteur's proposal and believe that this directive will be a key tool in our hands to successfully tackle the challenges facing society.
on behalf of the alde group. i support this legislative proposal, which will allow ukraine to benefit substantially from the advantages offered in the deep and comprehensive free trade area. we are all following the developments in ukraine closely and it is extremely worrying from many points of view. the country has been experiencing dramatic political moments in recent months and now the new government needs strong and immediate help from europe, both to combat external pressure and to overcome its economic and financial difficulties. given the urgency of the situation, i call on the commission and the european parliament to provide strong political and economic support to ukraine. we are opposed to any amendments to this proposal which could delay the adoption of this regulation before the end of the current european parliament's term of office. we have a responsibility to the prosperity and stability of our continent and that is why the european parliament must give its full support to the ukrainians on their difficult path towards preserving sovereignty and democracy.
a question asked by raising a blue card. i have a question for mr. liberazki. i've been reading mr. piper's report and i'm left with the impression that there seems to be more desire for policy than for substance. i cannot explain the inclusion in a rather strange way of countries like bulgaria and romania and the commitment and use of european funds to the monitoring of the european commission. my question to mr liberazzi is: are there not double standards towards two countries on the eve of the elections, when neither corruption nor the use of european funds has been tackled by any country in the european union? and that's what mrs malmstrom's reports and today's discussion show.
a question asked by raising a blue card. i listened to you very carefully, mrs. sander. i would like to know your opinion on the unacceptable way in which colleagues from the epp are using this de facto report, which we examine and discuss every year for political purposes on the eve of elections, and a personal attack on our proposal for the next president of the european commission, mr martin schulz, especially on facts and topics that we cannot discuss in this chamber, as they are not known.
in writing. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr piper. i am pleased that the report reflected my proposals to fight youth unemployment by a stronger commitment by member states to provide statistical information and regular reports on the role of european funds in this area. in order to provide added value for national policies to the efforts at european level, an integrated approach is needed between the measures and the different financial instruments to combat youth unemployment, such as 'horizon 2020', 'erasmus+' and 'erasmus for young entrepreneurs'. i also had the pleasure of working on two of the european court of auditors' special reports - on the implementation of the seventh framework programme for research and on the spending of european road funds. i believe that the recommendations made will lead to a lower error rate in the implementation of horizon 2020 and will increase the participation of young scientists and potential beneficiaries from central and eastern europe. at the same time, i am concerned about the findings of the report as to whether eu funds in bulgaria are sufficiently protected against corruption and abuse. i hope that the bulgarian authorities will take the necessary measures to avoid financial corrections and the suspension of programmes, as this will reflect negatively mainly on the beneficiaries - citizens, businesses and municipalities, who are not to blame for the actions of the governors. thank you, thank you!
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. - i believe that european union legislation must keep pace with the latest developments in the technologies we have. that is why i strongly support the regulation of so-called third party payment service providers, who mainly operate on the internet, as a new player in the market will make the old ones rethink their policies and create additional competition, which in any case will benefit citizens. we were lobbied quite heavily during the adoption of this report, especially by the old players - these are mainly banks or the payment services that were previously available to citizens. everyone knows them, i won't mention their names in my speech. this shows their fear because third party payment service providers are offering a new kind of service that is absolutely free to the consumer and thus creating a risk to the way banks and other old players actually generate profits. and also, usually, when you pay by bank transfer, and i've touched on this issue in other speeches, the cross-border fees, especially for euro transfers, for bank transfers are huge. sometimes it's as high as 30 euros. if i decide to order 10 euros from my account in bulgaria to an account in germany, i will have to pay 30 euros in fees, three times more than the price i buy for. whereas with third-party providers, i'm not paying a cent, so we can see right away how this diversity contributes to the consumers. and i also made a suggestion that when using bank cards there should be no excessive blocking of funds on bank cards by merchants, and that this blocking should not be for a very long period, which exceeds one month.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i fully support effective coordination and consistency in the european union's external action. to this end, the present mechanism must be strengthened, because we all see this need. i would point out that this policy must not only be coordinated but also timely. these two factors consistency and timeliness are crucial in creating an impression of the integrity and proper functioning of the eu to our international partners. i'll back up my words with a counterexample. the bulgarian government is extremely late in its position on the situation in crimea. while they were wondering what position to take, the president, proving once again his incompetence, made a statement on the subject to the european media. and only then he convenes the national security council to decide on bulgaria's position on crimea. i wish that such uncoordinated actions would never happen in the eu.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it proposes recommendations to the council which, if followed, would allow for a clear positioning of the european union at the un, highlighting its values and strengths as the leading financial contributor to the un system (eu and its member states) and the leading global donor for development. the recommendations emphasise the prevention of conflict, genocide and rule of law failures at both national and international level, with emphasis on strengthening the capacity of regional organisations in the field of peacekeeping and conflict prevention. i am also pleased that this report gives a great deal of attention to women's rights and their role in peace-building and development processes. this will also be crucial for the definition of the post-2015 framework. it will also be important in this context to take account of the link between the rule of law, corruption, good governance on the one hand, and development on the other. finally, the recommendations have the merit of addressing the question of reforming the un system, in particular the security council, to make it more accountable and efficient.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which focuses on raising awareness and providing information to european citizens about european development policy. a european year of development can only contribute to a better respect for the principle of coherence between the union's internal policies and external action, in particular with development policy: by making citizens aware of the raison d'être of development cooperation and its added value at union level, we will make our policy more democratic and citizens will also pay more attention to the principle of coherence. this decision is also a strong signal of commitment to our development partners, of our commitment to continue efforts until the end of 2015 to achieve the millennium development goals, but also to already lay the foundations for a reflection on the post-2015 framework, by mobilizing citizens and including civil society. finally, the report focuses the european year of development on human rights, including women's rights, and it is in this sense that we can fully promote our values within the union and outside it.
in writing. - i voted for this report because it is an expression of the eu's solidarity not only in political terms but also in economic terms. it demonstrates the union's ability to react quickly and builds on the progress made under the association and free trade agreements. given the urgency of the situation in ukraine, it is necessary to send a strong signal for the stabilisation of the country's economy and to declare our readiness to find real solutions to its exit from the crisis. by temporarily and unilaterally reducing trade barriers to imports of ukrainian goods into the eu to a level agreed bilaterally within the eu-ukraine free trade area, the proposal will help ukrainian companies to increase the volume and diversify the destinations of their exports. the abolition of eu customs duties on imports from ukraine is a step towards the establishment of a free trade area between the two, which will allow for trade liberalisation and help to promote trade and economic relations between the eu and ukraine. that is why i voted for this report, because it is a step forward towards the desired economic integration which will be a stimulus for economic growth and create business opportunities both in ukraine and in the eu countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it allows for a real reflection on the union's external action and the measures to be taken to strengthen the union's position as an effective, visible and credible international actor. the report has the merit of clearly stating the responsibility of the member states for the effectiveness of the union's foreign policy. better coordination is needed, in which the union delegations have a key role to play, particularly in crisis regions. the report also rightly emphasises the prevention and peaceful resolution of conflicts and the need to strengthen european mediation capacities, including election observation missions, whose monitoring must be strengthened if the recommendations made are to bear fruit. although it also stresses the need to include the gender dimension and gender balance, the report could have been more specific on this issue. finally, i regret that the special representatives (regional and human rights) were not included in the concerns about institutional coherence.
in writing. - colleagues, a comprehensive approach is key to achieving coordination, coherence, efficiency and consistency in the eu's foreign and defence policy. for its successful implementation, it is important to take account of the following aspects: the changed geopolitical environment puts the eu in the context of a dynamically changing world. in recent years, these changes have affected the eu's close neighbours: syria and north africa, ukraine, the frozen conflicts in the eastern partnership countries. the sooner europe catches the pulse of the times and the dynamics of the processes, the more adequate it will be to the new realities, threats and challenges to security. the implementation of the eu's comprehensive approach is unthinkable without the active support of the member states. the balance between the policies pursued and the cfsp/cfsp can only be achieved if the parties fulfil their contractual obligations in a spirit of mutual solidarity and strategic policy coordination at eu level. the eu's civil and military capabilities, financial and other instruments make it a unique organisation globally for the successful implementation of the comprehensive approach. this creates added value and reinforces its role as a global actor contributing to international security. it is important that nato and the eu have a common understanding of the concept of 'comprehensive approach' in order to complement each other and coordinate effectively the activities of the two organisations.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i shall be taking up the animal health regulation with its important guidelines on the prevention of animal diseases, support for agriculture and economic growth for rural areas. it is essential to ensure the free and proportionate movement of animals with a high level of control and to achieve the main objective health and safety of humans. the european union should provide and secure disease response means and tools, including those targeting cross-border transmission of infections in european border regions. this requires emergency preparedness, early response to animal diseases and zoonoses, simplification of decision-making procedures on vaccination and treatment of animals in the event of cross-border transmission of infections, minimising animal mortality and economic and social losses for humans. the european commission must pay serious attention to the cross-border transmission of infections to border regions across the bulgarian-turkish border, because the periodic killing of animals in border areas should not be the only solution to the problem.
mr president, i congratulate mrs mcintyre on her report on the european business environment and the need to encourage entrepreneurship from an early age. if we want europe's potential and people with ideas to stay and develop here, entrepreneurship should be a real career opportunity. however, due to 'fear of failure', administrative and financial difficulties, only 17% of young people in the european union believe they have both the necessary skills and good business opportunities. the key elements of the road formula are speed and time. up-to-date information for entrepreneurs, their access to new technologies, know-how and forms of venture capital are therefore crucial for europe's positioning in the 'global competition'. all of this motivates my proposal to declare 2017 the european year of entrepreneurship. thank you for the support of nearly 100 colleagues from various political groups and nationalities. i believe that after the vote tomorrow this idea will become a formal appeal from the european parliament to the european commission.
mr president, the european parliament is the only directly elected body of the european institutions and the most democratic. unfortunately in bulgaria the new electoral code is anything but that. under the lisbon treaty, the ep sets the rules for european elections, explicitly banning a threshold above 5%. in bulgaria, that limit is 5.9%! the recommendation of the venice commission, according to which the minimum period for adopting the electoral code should be at least 1 year, and in bulgaria it is 2 months before the elections, has been violated. an amendment was passed to the law that the opposition cannot have its own member on the electoral commissions. there is an explicit text in the law that refers solely and only against the national front for the salvation of bulgaria (nfssb). i urge the court of justice of the european union to sanction these violations of european law and fundamental democratic principles.
mr president, at the end of this european parliament's term of office, there comes a time when we seek to draw the attention of citizens to the european institutions. there's one question we have to answer: how can what we do be closer to the citizens? european citizens to have more common goals, solidarity and a sense of belonging. the lisbon treaty provides answers, such as the citizens' initiative and the role of national parliaments. but at the same time, it is obvious that this is not enough, and what we need to do in the future is to link the work of the european parliament much more closely with that of the national parliaments. so that the representative institutions have more weight at the expense of the governments. topics such as the budget and policies of the european union, economic governance, the architecture of the euro area, must be discussed jointly between the european and national parliaments. what we must not allow is to bypass the european union through intergovernmental agreements and to create a different status for european countries and citizens.
rapporteur. - mr president, the adoption of the 2014-2020 mff was a major political exercise and a challenge for the european parliament. the adoption of the mff came in the midst of one of the most severe crises of the european economy since the creation of the union. most of the member state governments relied heavily on austerity measures when countering the crisis at national level. this approach proved to be mistaken, but still influenced decisively the negotiations on the eu budget. we cannot be happy with the agreement on the 2014-2020 mff. parliament failed to convince the european council to discuss policies. the council discussed figures and exceptions instead. however, this report is not about evaluating the outcome of the mff negotiations. the purpose of the report is to take stock of the experience of the european parliament accumulated over the last years in fulfilling the new functions given to it by the lisbon treaty. this will be the legacy of this parliament for future legislatures and i hope it will be useful when discussing the mid-term review or preparing the next mff negotiations. first we need to say that the whole procedure was far from ideal. the problem was in the different approach of the three institutions involved. while the european parliament carefully prepared its position by creating a specialised committee and adopting a special own-initiative report, the council approached the issue at a much later stage. we also had different philosophies. while the parliament prioritised policies the european council focused exclusively on maximum figures. we could not agree to leave our successors with an austerity budget for the next seven years. therefore, in the future we need to find a way to discuss the long-term budget with a greater commitment by the national parliaments and governments, focusing on public investments, european added value and the link between the eu budget and economic governance at national level. second, we had to steer a very complex negotiation comprising all the decision-making procedures and reaching agreement on nearly 70 legislative acts accompanying the agreement on the mff figures. almost all of the committees of the european parliament were involved. we decided to create an open system of coordination and exchange of information among the different negotiators. the overall mandate was given by a contact group where the president of parliament and the leaders of the political groups were involved. this architecture of internal coordination functioned well, allowing in particular the use of all possible leverage to maximise the results of the negotiations on the individual files. i cannot accept the approach adopted initially by the council, to agree on a negotiating box comprising multiple elements of the legislative files that were supposed to follow the codecision procedure. this was in clear contradiction with the treaty and the balance of powers between the different institutions. we finally succeeded in making the council negotiate, but linking the negotiations on the different files was considered a burden by some colleagues. in the future we need to obtain a clear preliminary commitment by the council to strictly respect the competences of the european parliament. we also need to clarify the negotiating mechanisms when the file goes from the council presidency to the president of the european council and vice versa. thirdly, i would like to say that we had to accept a decrease in the eu budget, but parliament succeeded in making considerable changes in the implementation of the budget, allowing full use of the funds committed. the introduction of the global margins for payments and commitments and the possibility to carry forward funds from one year to another was a major achievement by parliament. in conclusion, i would like to point to three very important issues: the already chronic problem with insufficient payments, meaning that it will still be necessary to use all means available at the beginning of the new financial period; the absolute need to carry out a proper mid-term review, failing which this budget will not permit the fulfilment of the expected tasks; and the absolute need to start reforming the revenue part of the budget. i hope that the high-level group on own resources under the chairmanship of mr monti will come up with meaningful and convincing options and arguments. finally i would like to thank all the colleagues i had the pleasure of working with on this file: mr böge, mr lamassoure and all the other rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs and staff from the committee on budgets and political groups.
in writing. - i voted for this report because it is a step forward towards raising consumer awareness of the quality of european products and their production methods, promoting these products more targetedly in line with the needs of european and world markets and increasing their competitiveness both on the eu internal market and in third countries. i welcome the increased union share in the funding of the programmes and the extension of the scope of eligible beneficiaries by adding producer organisations, because they are an important element of european agriculture. the extension of the list of eligible products, and in particular the inclusion of wine, is a positive signal of the eu's commitment to producers. the proposal to develop new services for technical assistance to stakeholders, for the exchange of information or good practices, and for the simplification of administrative procedures will be of particular benefit to small and medium-sized producers. i support the rapporteur in that technical support should include advice and assistance to improve the protection of european products against counterfeiting and falsification in third countries. that is why i voted for this report, because it proposes enhanced measures to promote the diversity and quality of agricultural production in the european union.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, i would like to call for new and stricter rules on the pension rights of citizens who have worked in a member state other than the one in which they live at the time of their retirement. i have many letters from bulgarian citizens who worked abroad legally, and whose pensions are delayed for months. these citizens rely on these pensions to cover their daily minimum needs. they're vital for retirees who have no other income anyway. the infringements concerned mainly the infringements by the hellenic republic and cyprus. another problem faced by bulgarian citizens is the incorrect calculation of the length of insurance. they complain that foreign institutions do not make correct calculations of the amount of their pensions, which seriously harms bulgarian citizens. i am calling from this platform for a change in the current unjust situation.
mr. president, i would like to the chairman, mr commissioner, colleagues, sound policy requires limiting the use of plastic bags and above all those below 50 microns. but hardly anyone imagines that the problem will be solved easily. it was created by all of us who have created the conditions for a tremendous increase in the use of plastic packaging of all kinds, including single-use and lightweight bags. by their nature, these packages are produced on the 'waste-to-production' principle and some of them have a lifespan of a few minutes but a lifespan of hundreds of years. today, they are not just waste, but a risk to the environment and human health. the amendment of the directive imposes restrictions and member states should ensure strict transposition because any attempt to circumvent the restrictions will in fact reflect on the overall policy of the union. however, there are also prohibitive mechanisms to consider. this is important to ensure the implementation of this policy. we have to think of alternatives. we're not prepared to offer any alternatives at this time. i therefore believe it is right to seek a combination of restrictive measures and an economic mechanism to reduce the use of these products.
ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to speak in the plenary about ukraine at a time when the country is threatened with civil war as a result of the complex interplay between a number of internal and external factors. political and economic combinations have not given the citizens of ukraine a chance to choose for themselves. their choice was overridden by various kinds of pressure. what we feared most today is a fact. ukraine is shooting, citizens are divided, reconciliation is not set with the upcoming elections. but we don't need any findings right now. the european union must be a guarantor of the return of peace and a mediator between ukraine and russia, sending clear messages to both sides to reduce tensions. we must not support the use of military force. the pressure is there, but unfortunately neither side is looking for a moderate approach. russia, nato, ukraine, the european union - all must contribute to a peaceful solution to the problem. the principle of action and reaction has no place in eu policy. in the situation that has been created - for which the european union was clearly not prepared - the unity of ukraine and its european future is being negotiated with russia, whether we like it or not. (the speaker agreed to answer one question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. dear colleague, i think it is clear to everyone that there is no such tension in ukraine if there are only external factors. internal factors are also present and for all analysts who study the situation in ukraine, this is a fact. i was in ukraine, i am a member of the eu-ukraine delegation, and i saw things with my own eyes that clearly show the presence of internal factors that create tension.
the crisis in ukraine has entered an even more dangerous phase, which is putting the country on the brink of civil war with all the consequences for international security. the expectations from geneva tomorrow are very high: to break the spiral of an ever-escalating conflict, to find a mutually acceptable solution, to create the conditions for democratic elections through dialogue and diplomacy. today's discussion gives us all a mandate to do that. but does the european union have clear and definite answers to very important questions? i'm putting three of them on. we are talking about economic sanctions. do we have the estimates of what they will mean for the member states? do we have any guarantees that we will face the consequences of them in solidarity? it is clear that the effects of the crisis will deepen, especially in eastern europe. i recall that in just two weeks in 2009, bulgaria lost 250 million euros during the gas crisis. question number two: south stream. the motion for a resolution calls for the project to be stopped. do we have the numbers here on who's gonna get hurt the most? is it russia or the countries that expect energy security from its construction, like bulgaria, hungary, slovenia, greece and italy? mr. fule talks about a new energy security plan, but we've been waiting five years for this plan. and last but not least, the government in ukraine today does not adequately guarantee the rights of minorities. we have our fears for the nearly 300,000 bulgarian population in ukraine... (the president cut off the speaker)
the sad fact is that the current administration in moscow does not accept the european union's hand in strategic partnership. partnership for a safer world, for the fight against terrorism, for mutually beneficial economic cooperation, etc. what we are seeing, however, is russia's desire to rebuild its influence in the post-soviet space with its new vision of a 'eurasian economic union'. do they realize in moscow that this vision cannot be realized by force? the european union is a voluntary union. russia believes that it can use political and economic pressure, and worst of all, force, to achieve its goals. integration ideas should attract, not repel. let them ask themselves in moscow why the younger generations want to emigrate to the west and there is no emigration wave to moscow. when they answer that question, they will understand that there is no way to convince people without attracting them with freedom, democracy, respect for personal choice and the free will of all, regardless of their ethnicity, religion or other affiliation. finally, ladies and gentlemen, let us not be mistaken: it is not only the eastern partnership countries that are under pressure, but also eu member states such as bulgaria. in bulgaria, this pressure finds fertile ground in the current ruling former communists, and their chair mr. stanishev, who is increasing the dependence of the european union and bulgaria by disregarding the eu legislation on south stream from russia.
in writing. - colleagues, i supported the report on new technologies and open educational resources because i believe that it is the skills related to new technologies that are of the utmost importance for the development of today's digital knowledge society and of key importance for the successful implementation of the labour market, given that by 2020[nbsp ] 90% of jobs will require digital skills. to increase people's chances of finding a job, we need to put an emphasis on increasing digital literacy, but not just for students. statistics show that 70% of teachers in the eu do not feel confident in working with digital technologies and want to develop additional ict skills. therefore, the introduction of high-quality training for them is of paramount importance. the use of new technologies will improve access to education, while accessibility and flexibility of education should not be at the expense of quality. quality education, open educational resources, and continuous updating of knowledge and skills also contribute to the lifelong learning needed to remain competitive in the labour market. the new technologies will also help to improve the competitiveness of european education worldwide through opportunities for internationalisation of european higher education. as a result, europe will become a more attractive education destination.
mr president, i would like to start with the thanks: all my thanks on this matter, not only for this set of documents but for the work on own resources, go to jean-luc dehaene – and i hope again that he will recover very soon – to anne jensen and to alain lamassoure. in particular i would like to thank my colleague jutta haug, who is not only our shadow rapporteur for this issue but has been working for many years to raise awareness of the need for own resources in the european union budget. she is one of the people who makes the public understand that this is a serious issue. we are now in a very strange position which is unknown in national parliaments. when speaking about the budget we divide the expenditure part, which is a matter for long negotiations in parliament, from the revenue part, where in practice we have not much power besides stamping whatever the council has agreed. this is a problem. why? because we already have a shortage of funds at the beginning of this financial framework. there are two reasons for this. first, because the current budget is a very low one with very few reserves, and second because the ‘reste à liquiderʼ [outstanding commitments] and the outstanding payments from the previous period started at the very beginning of this year. what is the result? the result is very high pressure on national budgets, a lack of predictability for national budgets as well, and they act as a provider of last resort of finance, which is certainly not something that the taxpayers would like to do. what would be the solution to this situation? the solution would be for the european union budget to be much more autonomous. that is why in adopting and agreeing to this package of own resources we need absolutely to reshuffle, to find the different scenarios and to suggest to the member states that it is in their interest, in the interest of the member states, to have a much more autonomous eu budget and not to rely all the time on national contributions.
in writing. - i voted for this report because it is another signal of support for the beekeeping sector that the european parliament is sending. it avoids the negative consequences that the beekeeping sector would have experienced if pollen had been accepted as an external ingredient rather than a natural constituent of honey. the direct consequences are related to the labelling and testing costs that would arise under european food labelling legislation. the indirect effects are related to the reputation of honey as a natural, healthy product. i am glad that most colleagues agreed that the honey directive should not be mixed up with the gmo coexistence debate. the issues of gmos and food labelling are covered by other directives than the honey directive. i support the rapporteur in removing the possibility for the commission to amend essential elements of the directive such as the technical characteristics relating to the names, descriptions of products and the requirements for the composition of honey. the report reflects the ep's standard position on delegated acts and follows the approaches taken under other directives. that is why i voted for this report, because it is a continuation of the steps taken by parliament, both in terms of the powers of the commission and in terms of support for the beekeeping sector.
mr president, i support the resolution on the european union's foreign policy in the context of cultural and religious differences. because we, as representatives of different political groups, but also as representatives of the eu's citizens, need clear and common principles on which to build our relations with the outside world. the european union, which brings together countries with different national and cultural identities, is organised as a union of values with the responsibility to pursue a foreign policy that respects the sovereignty of its members and of third countries and that protects human rights. in this sense, it respects people's cultural and religious differences. cultural and religious differences are often a source of tension and conflict, and this cannot continue. instead of tolerance, peace and stability, today we talk about fundamentalism, extremism, xenophobia. these are not new phenomena to europe. we have encountered them many times in history and we should pass on our experience to those countries that are exposed to similar risks today. all of this necessitates a foreign policy that creates the conditions for the development of a stable democracy, international cooperation and a willingness to constructively address global issues. the european union must continue to promote a political culture of tolerance, openness, secularism and the development of democratic institutions around the world. european foreign policy today determines the development of key regions and its character determines whether we will be able to save lives, guarantee peace, stability, sustainability for all generations to come. these policies are yet to determine our future. many examples from today support the ideas of the resolution: syria and the millions of refugees. i'm going to point out extremism and xenophobia, which we obviously haven't yet tackled. in my country, for example, the influx of refugees has caused negative reactions. i would like to remind you of ukraine, where we are unfortunately witnessing the impact of cultural and ethnic differences. the protection of the rights of ethnic minorities is part of this problem. and we must not underestimate our european standards. all of this has to be long-term and we have to find long-term solutions to ensure internal and external stability.
in writing. the eu is based on the idea of a free market, which is largely guaranteed by strong and real competition. unfortunately, there are a lot of violations of competition law. i can give many examples from my own country, bulgaria. since the national authorities do not take any action, in particular the commission for the protection of competition (cpc), which is currently an artificial body that does not do any work, i would like to draw the attention of the european institutions to the fact that in bulgaria in almost every sector there is unfair competition or monopolies. i'm talking about the banking sector, the electricity sector, the fuel sector, where lukoil and overgaz impose prices that are unbearable for bulgarians, which are many times higher than european standards for the income-price ratio of fuel/energy, in agriculture, where small producers are suffocated and it even goes to political monopolies. i call for urgent action in this area in the eu and in bulgaria in particular.
member of the commission. - mr president, today i am the expert on many files! i am learning a lot as well. since the commission adopted the first single market act in april 2011 we have taken important steps forwards towards a goal of revitalising the competitiveness of companies, in particular smes. we are now discussing measures set out in the second single market act. this shows not only how far we have come in achieving our goals but also our deep commitment to continuing to revitalise the european economy. it also demonstrates that financial regulation is not only about repairing financial systems. it can also be used to help create new opportunities for investment and growth in europe. we need capital to finance development activity across european economies. this is a huge need. we know the difficulties smes have in getting money to finance their growth. we understand this is a particular problem for companies who are not listed on stock markets and so are entirely dependent on banks for their finance. infrastructure is an extremely important player when it comes to reviving growth in europe. each year between eur[nbsp ]100 and 150 billion is invested in european infrastructure projects. as member states alone cannot provide the financing they need, there is an important role for investment funds to play. the real estate sector is also one of the prime employers in europe. real estate funds with some eur[nbsp ]300 billion invested in them are vital sources of funding for the construction industry. but the long-term financing of the real economy in europe is currently fragmented and so, often, european businesses are unable to get the capital they need to grow. we have one of the highest savings ratios in the world. the money needed to finance the real economy is there. we just need to unlock it. this is why we have this proposal for long-term investment funds that we are debating tonight. the legislative framework proposed aims to create a structure that will allow capital owned by investors with long-term needs to flow across europe with no extra requirements from the business and projects that need it. currently fewer than ten member states have legislation in place which allows long-term funds to operate in them. where long-term funds are already available, there are sometimes more than fifty different versions of them to choose from. this fragmentation makes it very hard for investors to make informed choices. the new european long-term investment funds, with this clear rule and recognisable brand will facilitate the movement of savings into the long-term projects that we so badly need. on behalf of michel barnier, the commission is very grateful for all the hard work that rapporteur rodi kratsa and the shadow rapporteurs have put into this proposal so far. many technical issues have been resolved very rapidly and we are broadly happy with the text that is in front of you today as it reflects the spirit of the commission’s proposal – to boost long-term investment. this has only been possible because of the spirit of cooperation and compromise. we have the same objectives – to relaunch growth in europe. parliament has come to the same conclusions as the commission when it comes to mobilising the maximum amount of savings possible: to open the funds to the widest range of investors possible; to have the broadest base of investors, and that includes retail investors and that is key to the success of this proposal. the reason for the overwhelming success of ucits funds over the last 25 years is clear. they are based on a single, coherent set of rules which allow them to function as efficient european investment funds. the amendments by the committee on economic and monetary affairs enlarging the scope of eligible long-term investors go in the right direction. we fully share your analysis that small and medium-sized firms listed on stock markets still have difficulties getting finance. we are sympathetic to broadening the scope of assets to help them. but we must make sure that we do not lose sight of this objective while setting the definition of which companies can be long-term investors. we do not want to end up helping multinational companies when we are trying to help small companies. so the report by the economic affairs committee proposes a minimum percentage of companies and projects that must be domiciled in europe for the fund. given that the aim is to boost investment in the european economy it is reasonable to pursue this objective. we have, of course, an overriding obligation to ensure that all of our laws comply with the treaty and international committees so, for this, the commission’s legal service is examining whether such a requirement is in fact possible. but the most important thing today – or tonight – is that parliament moves speedily to adopt the text. the ultimate aim is to help the financing of the european economy and delay will only hold back our growth. discussions in the council are progressing well and i think it is reasonable to imagine that trialogues could begin when the new parliament starts its session later this autumn. so today we send a strong signal to all those engaged in the real economy of europe that we understand their problems and we stand ready to bring forward solutions to them.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on budgets. - mr president, commissioner, the committee on budgets considers that the proposal for european long-term investment funds is extremely good. the commission is indeed making a proposal that will help the real economy in the eu, especially at a time when public finances are weak and cannot compensate for economic growth. a few recommendations that are being made by the budget committee. first, member states should, where possible, not introduce additional requirements for the use and allocation of such funds. secondly, where possible, european long-term investment funds should not participate in derivatives and speculative instruments on the markets. secondly, mention, where possible, participation in instruments involving budgetary resources, to make it clear when they are used with public funds (whether european or national). and finally, it is also good to take measures to ensure that they do not participate in instruments that are linked to tax avoidance zones.
on behalf of the s&d group. the european union's determination to set an example of a quality environmental policy is linked to the response to various challenges, one of which is the fight against illegal waste trafficking. this challenge is not new. in 2006[nbsp ]the european union launched a targeted effort with the adoption of a regulation on shipments of waste, and today we must build on what has been achieved. the statistics on the volume of illegal transport suggest that we have not come all the way and we need targeted measures to find a solution to this problem. it often remains out of the media's sight, but its dimension is very disturbing. the aim today is to put an end to a number of unregulated practices and legislative loopholes, to enable member states to coordinate and harmonise their efforts to combat illegal waste trafficking, to protect the interests of society and business, and to contribute to a cleaner and more protected environment. the link between the environment, conservation of resources, job creation and human health is obvious. i will highlight some of the main achievements of this report: firstly, it highlights the problem of illegal shipment and treatment of waste as a factor threatening business and the environment, as well as public health. secondly, creating a framework to improve knowledge of illegal shipments and practices and enhance cooperation between member states, broadening the scope of inspection plans, including risk assessment as a mandatory basic element and ensuring public access to information, increasing the powers of control authorities in member states and shifting the burden of proof to operators. these and many other changes will contribute to a tougher and more ambitious approach to unregulated practices in the sector, limit their negative impact on the internal market and help to preserve a valuable raw material resource for the union. as shadow rapporteur on behalf of the socialist and democratic group, i welcome the compromises reached with the council and believe that today's vote will provide a strong and sustainable legal framework, support for the economy and environmental policy.
mr president, the june european council has agreed a strategic agenda purporting to define the key priorities for the next five years. however, the substance of these priorities in fact spells out an approach that is, more or less, business as usual, with a certain amount of flexibility. this is the opposite of what the people of europe sent us to this parliament to achieve, namely change that delivers on the premise of a social europe – a pledge enshrined in the treaties. regarding jobs and growth, the strategic agenda states – as the first priority – the need to fully exploit the potential of the single market by completing the internal market, yet article 3 of the treaty on european union directly links the establishment of the internal market with the sustainable development of europe, based on a highly competitive social market economy aiming at full employment and social progress. it is this vital link between economic efficiency and social equity that actually has been severed over the past decade.
mr president, mr prime minister, your speech shows political strength, political will and the will to act. i would like to emphasize today a number of important and concrete aspects. first, i shall refer to economic policy, the fight against youth unemployment and the youth guarantee. i would draw your attention to this and urge you to urge the member states to focus on youth entrepreneurship. developing entrepreneurship means making young people the agents of growth. i would also like to draw your attention to the role of women in the economy - we would like to hear more about this. women entrepreneurs are making a major contribution to developing this untapped potential in europe. there is also a need to work towards better integration of women into the labour market, whether in terms of pay, part-time/full-time work or career development opportunities. secondly, the migration policy. i would like to mention two key elements in this connection: solidarity between member states and the strengthening of the frontex agency. but there is also another important aspect: our common visa policy, which could now be a tool for better management of migration flows. it must be implemented rapidly as proposed by the commission last april. before i go on to the final point, what about the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area? the technical conditions are met; i hope that the italian presidency will be fair and will commit itself to this issue. finally, as regards the union as a player on the world stage, i believe that our voice will never be heard if we are not united and if common responses are not timely. i wish the italian presidency every success, from which the citizens of europe expect much, as do the citizens of africa, the middle east and ukraine, who aspire to democracy.
mr president, prime minister, in the document ‘a fresh start for the european union’ written by you and mr gauze, you talk about initiatives which are needed to finance growth in areas, such as energy, which could benefit strongly from a more european approach. moreover, you stated that the single market for energy needs to be achieved by europe-wide investments on interconnections and transmission grids. last month, before the bulgarian government suspended the construction of the gas plant on its territory, you made it clear that italy firmly supports the south stream project. alla luce di questo, voglio chiederle che cosa intende fare nello specifico per aiutare gli stati membri dell'est europa a ridurre la loro dipendenza dalla fornitura di gas russo. intende dedicare i suoi sforzi durante il semestre di presidenza italiano ad aiutare questi paesi per trovare il modo di diversificare i loro approvvigionamenti energetici al di fuori dalla russia? attualmente, la maggior parte dei gasdotti europei trasportano solo gas da est verso ovest. si prega ad esempio di migliorare i gasdotti presenti sul suolo italiano e quelli ad essi connessi in modo da permettere anche un flusso di gas in direzione inversa ovvero da ovest a est.
today i would like to draw the attention of my colleagues to another attempt by the united kingdom government to make sense of the principle of free movement within the european union. the uk government plans to introduce a quota to reduce the annual number of migrants entering the country from future eu member states to a certain minimum. initially, the quota was planned to apply to citizens of bulgaria and romania, but for now it seems that the idea has been abandoned. the british prime minister has said that immigration is putting a lot of pressure on british society and the economy, but the evidence is the opposite. for example, according to the european commission, migrants from poorer eu member states are net contributors to public finances, which allows us to realise our potential in the best possible way, without restrictions or borders.
mr president, commissioner füle has pointed out that the loss of one other human life is one too many and certainly he is perfectly right. we should be thinking very carefully about our own actions in the next hours and days, so that this threat and these losses are put to an end as quickly as possible. here i would invite commissioner füle to tell us a bit more about the normandy initiative and about the berlin declaration and what he feels that the european union should be doing to give a very strong impetus to precisely this direction in the effort to stabilise and overcome a terrible crisis.
in writing. ukraine has a peace plan that of president poroshenko. it must be applied to stop the violence. strong measures must be taken to ensure the territorial integrity and unity of ukraine. it is unacceptable in the 21st century for a state to take advantage of its neighbours' internal problems and seize territory. russia is acting against the norms of international law and its own commitments and is contributing to the escalation of the conflict. i expect the kremlin to support the peace plan not just in words but in deeds and to stop its continued support for the separatists and the regrouping of its troops on the border. the international community and the eu must continue to engage russia. the kremlin is also responsible for the deterioration of relations with the european union. i believe that russia should be our strategic partner, not an enemy that uses the divide and conquer tactic. i urge the swift ratification and implementation of the association agreement with ukraine by all member states, including bulgaria. it'll be another step towards normalizing the situation.
in writing. – youth unemployment in europe is a challenge that needs to be urgently addressed if we are to secure better lives and futures for europeans. we need an ambitious and holistic policy approach, encompassing the following elements. in order to achieve sustained employability, we need to create jobs in the short term, but also create long-term high-quality jobs and a business environment that will enable employers to hire more people. this can be done with a cut on the corporate tax of all eu-based companies, so that they could afford to hire 1 million europeans on the average eu salary. reforms are necessary in relation to the inclusion of vocational training in the curricula. it is also important to unleash the entrepreneurial potential of the young generations, e.g. by reducing bureaucracy in the application process for eu grants. the youth guarantee is an important step in bridging all instruments for tackling youth employment, but still some issues with its design and implementation exist. i would like to request information from the commission on the implementation, costs and outcomes of the youth guarantee so far, e.g. what is the number of people that have found jobs through it up to now.
in writing. - on 16 july 2014, we adopted by a large majority a resolution supporting lithuania's accession to the euro area. the baltic republic has for years demonstrated a strong track record towards adopting the single currency and i am pleased that this will officially happen on 1 january 2015. lithuania's fulfilment of the convergence criteria is indicative the country has a moderate government deficit of 2,1% of gdp and a public debt of 39%, which is well below the european averages. with regard to all other ecb benchmarks and criteria on interest rate levels and price stability, lithuania also performed strongly. the republic of lithuania joins latvia and estonia, which have also made the changeover to the euro in recent years. it is significant that despite the financial crisis and difficulties across the eu, the project of a single european currency remains attractive to newer member states. the lithuanian litas joined the erm ii (the so-called 'waiting room' of the euro area) back in 2004 and since then a targeted policy has been pursued with a view to adopting the euro. such efforts should be welcomed and can serve as an example of the successful transition from a currency board system to full adoption of a common currency for countries such as bulgaria.
madam president, isis has declared a 'caliphate' as an islamic state in the territory of half of europe, and its 'caliphate' has called for a crusade in the name of islam. radical islamism is today the greatest political and military threat to europe and our civilization. isis has declared jihad, a holy war, and the threat is real. this will be a battle for values - our values. isil is now targeting the western balkans because of the presence of large muslim communities there. we live in peace with our fellow bulgarian muslims and we do not want isis terrorists to fly the flag of the "caliphate" either on our territory or elsewhere in europe. last week, this flag was waved during clashes in skopje, which we perceive as a threat to the life, health and rights of the vast bulgarian community in macedonia. isis is recruiting its fighters in cardiff today. i'm afraid this is happening in other european countries. separately, the appalling crimes against humanity committed by isis in iraq and syria will trigger a new wave of refugees, which is an unbearable burden on the bulgarian economy. i urge the house to adopt the resolution proposed by the ecr and signed by me. i urge the commission and the council to help greece, italy, spain and bulgaria to cope with the new wave of refugees from iraq and neighbouring territories through frontex.
madam president, the situation in iraq - i am not saying this is new - is particularly worrying. there is a de facto occupation of part of iraq's territory by a terrorist group. i would like to stress three points. on the first point, i still think it is necessary to stress the responsibility for a political solution, which lies with politicians, especially those elected in april, in the house of representatives. they must take responsibility for the future of this state and its citizens. it is clear today that iraq cannot recover without genuine political and interreligious dialogue. as for my second point, the european union must continue to be committed to assisting more than 1 million displaced persons and 1.5 million people in need of humanitarian aid. today this must be done in good coordination, particularly with the un, but above all by ensuring that political dialogue in the region is promoted. finally, i come to my third point, which i will stress most strongly. we must not limit ourselves to responding to the humanitarian situation. the regional dynamics of the situation in iraq must have our full attention. the expansionist agenda of the islamic state terrorist group, if pursued and realized, is a threat not only to iraq, syria, but to the entire region as far as jordan. we must also keep in mind the regional conflict that lies ahead, including the possible overlap of tensions between the shiites, sunnis, arabs and kurds. we must be aware of the serious consequences of such a change of situation in the region, on the doorstep of europe. so today it is more than necessary to act quickly through diplomatic efforts - why not a high-level conference - in order to avoid ending up in a situation where we are bound hand and foot.
in writing. in the last five years, iraq seemed to be emerging from a spiral of violence and instability and moving towards a fragile but fading democracy. unfortunately, however, the ongoing war in syria, the poverty and the existing religious and ethnic divisions in iraqi society led very quickly to a new civil war. what's happening in iraq is that no conflict is encapsulated within the borders of one country. it also proves the maxim that no leader can rule stably without widespread public support. last but not least, europe has a moral obligation to continue its support for iraqi society. the bottom line is that peace in iraq inevitably comes through peace in syria. i therefore call on the eu, in close cooperation with the international community and in particular the arab states, to work actively to bring an end to the violence in syria. european support for the iraqi security forces must also continue to ensure stability in the country. at the same time, the iraqi government must unite, not divide, the people. i'm not saying that these are easy goals, but they are necessary to achieve so that iraq does not fall into permanent chaos and, more importantly, so that the future of generations of iraqis is not stolen.
author. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the issues of freedom of expression and assembly show us that our partnership with the arab spring countries such as egypt must still be largely about democratisation. as the joint resolution underlines, we must call on the egyptian authorities to end any form of violence or coercion against journalists, bloggers or any other individual, because of their political or other opinions. two important messages. first, the egyptian authorities must respect freedom of expression and assembly, which are essential to the development of democracy, but even more so to respect their own constitution, the social contract that the citizens signed up to in the referendum just six months ago. the second message is that the egyptian authorities must respect international law and international conventions to which egypt is a party, including the independence and impartiality of the judiciary. arbitrary detentions, without credible and thorough investigation, only further create the social disorder that the authorities would like to control. we will continue to support this neighbouring country, but the message must be clear: egypt must live up to its commitments.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, the message of our resolution is clear: attacks and violence must stop. the abducted girls and children must be released immediately. this is the message we are sending to the terrorist sect boko haram, but it is also a message to the nigerian authorities and regional partners. the boko haram attacks are a symptom of dysfunctions that require broader efforts. i will focus on two types of action. at the national level, security and justice sector reform must be pursued so that the nigerian authorities can fight terrorism while respecting human rights and international law. then, on the level of regional cooperation, we know that part of boko haram's financing comes from arms, drugs and human trafficking and that boko haram has bases in neighboring countries, so cooperation is essential, especially for the sharing of information. the ecowas and the african union must now also put their declarations into action. regional cooperation is all the more important as the development of boko haram also threatens the neighbouring region. finally, bring back our girls!
thank you, commissioner, for trying to find quick solutions to the crisis that has arisen. but the european union has not found an effective remedy to treat the effects of the embargo. for small countries like bulgaria, the direct and indirect losses are huge. the bastards are knocking on the doors of many farmers. today we cannot answer them about the duration of the embargo, or whether there will be a change in policy, or whether the cap compensation budget will be enough and how long. you said there'd be new measures. this time, listen to the bulgarian farmers, because what you are proposing does not take into account the specificities of the member states. compensation should be affordable and quick, but bureaucracy kills it. the promises of new markets are still only promises and have not replaced the russian ones. the joint programmes with russia, co-financed by the european union, must also be compensated, otherwise the losses will be enormous. the spiral of economic sanctions is endless, but so far it's not the solution to any problem.
in writing. mr president, it is unacceptable that all producers should be placed under a common denominator, competing for the infinitely inadequate compensation of eur 125 million, which was exhausted in less than ten days. producers from the new member states are disadvantaged and at risk of severe social consequences, in competition with goods from the older member states, which are also subject to higher agricultural subsidies. i would also ask commissioner cholos to pay particular attention to the fact that this year bulgaria has had a number of devastating floods, which are having a further severe impact on agricultural production in regions where it is a major source of livelihood. as a result of these and the subsequent weaker harvest, the bulgarian agricultural market is exposed to enormous pressure from agricultural production from other member states. i also want to express my disapproval of the discrimination against independent producers, for whom the subsidy is less than that of members of trade associations. this measure has again affected new farmers in the union. i call on the european commission to take these factors into account when shaping its next proposals and delegated regulations. thank you, mr chairman!
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, thank you for your presentation on the current state and prospects of trade with the euromed countries. it seems to me that the balance sheet today is as follows - and you have just drawn it out - trade between the european union and the countries of the southern shore of the mediterranean still offers promising prospects, but there is still a long way to go before partnerships are just not variable in geometry. i would like to emphasize three points: firstly, it is necessary to continue working towards free trade agreements and in particular the elimination of non-tariff barriers. the elimination of non-tariff and technical barriers must be done in partnership and with the full involvement and ownership of our partner countries. in this connection, and as you have just mentioned, the partnership with the southern mediterranean must be based on a dynamic of strong regional integration. today, however, trade between the countries of the southern mediterranean is still very low. secondly, in order to strengthen trade with the mediterranean partner countries, it is essential to remain pragmatic, to work directly with and for those who trade. two examples: to put our visa policy at the service of economic policy, i.e. to facilitate the procedures for issuing visas for the business community, as with the mobility partnership agreement signed with morocco in june 2013. the second idea is to encourage more business networking on both sides of the mediterranean, in particular by creating bilateral chambers of commerce which can organise joint forums or training courses. finally, the deepening of trade relations and free trade agreements are not an end in themselves. trade is not the only key to development, but it remains an instrument which can enable these countries to integrate fully into an open world economy. we must therefore ensure that the development of enterprises and trade also promotes the strengthening of states and administrative structures, because we cannot ignore the political and social instability in these regions. so yes to trade in the service of peace and stability.
mr. chairman, over 300 million euros has been lost from unprecedented rainfall and flooding in bulgaria in the last three months alone. the disaster has left hundreds of people homeless. the economy and agriculture will recover for years to come. unfortunately, climate change is not just affecting south-east europe and the balkans. nature is questioning the integrity of our own budget accounts and the drastic reduction of the solidarity fund. however, earlier this year we changed the regulation here in the european parliament to make the use of funds more flexible. by the end of this month, the european commission must also draw up the rules under which the parties will use these funds. i would also like to ask the commission, in the person of mr de gucht, who is here, to do everything possible to ensure that there is a working document, that there is an opportunity for advance payments in the most affected areas and also for additional funds where they go beyond the scope of the regulation.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, bulgaria is among the countries affected by the russian food embargo. so far, the estimates are for 10.5 million leva from our total agricultural exports. the ban on imports of agricultural products has deprived all producers of access to the second largest market for european goods. today they expect solidarity from brussels in the form of urgent and adequate measures to compensate for their losses and protect them from new ones. unfortunately, the secondary effects of the embargo can be even more profound and devastating for some sectors, including the loss of jobs where agriculture is the only livelihood of the population. farmers are among the most affected by the political crisis between the eu and russia, but it is not right that they alone pay this high price. in this context, i find the compensation provided for at eur 125 million to be grossly inadequate and call for it to be increased. however, this should not be limited to the cap crisis fund, which was set aside for internal market crises caused by drought, floods, poor harvests or diseases, and which is not the case with the current one. we must therefore compensate for the losses from the russian restrictions from other sources, and we must also push for more cap funds in 2015.
mr president, the digital economy is a topic that is for me very much linked to the hopes and worries of younger citizens. hence, let me share with you a few thoughts of the epp’s youngest mep. it is typically the younger generations in europe that are contributing to the development of a competitive european digital economy. examples such as spotify, the south cloud and skype were all start-ups by young european entrepreneurs. i would like to further urge the commission to foster an environment that makes it easier, more affordable and simply more desirable for my young fellow citizens to keep on thinking about the next wave of digital innovation ‘made in europe’. it is the younger generations that not only drive and benefit from digitalisation but are most vulnerable to its potential negative consequences. young people often share every aspect of their life, as well as important personal data, via internet platforms and social media. this can and often has negative consequences for their career prospects, for their safety and their security. the spread of digitalisation can make such cases more common. thus, although a dynamic, pro-business, pro-innovation and integrated digital market is something i encourage and embrace, it should be completed by a very carefully devised online security strategy. i urge the commission to introduce standards guaranteeing the online safety of one of the most vulnerable social groups: european youth. i also would like to address you, not only as one of the youngest meps but also as a member from a young eu member state and, more importantly, a young democracy. one of the many advantages of the digital single market is that it can help us improve transparency and accountability through instruments such as e-government. e-government is a key priority of some member states. yet countries like bulgaria need european support for completing such an ambitious project. i ask the commission to assist member states in strengthening democracy through the introduction of digital tools. i congratulate commissioner barnier for the extensive work he has done and i look forward to working with team juncker on finalising the digital single market as soon as possible.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the trade agreement we have reached should help us to broaden the scope of our partnership with canada, which is a historically close friend and one of europe's main strategic partners. the free trade agreement is key to deepening our relationship. it will help to turn the transatlantic area into a common market and promote economic growth. trade is expected to increase by eur 26 billion as a result of this agreement. more trade means more investment and more jobs. by strengthening our economic ties with canada, we will inject new strength into our economies and our competitiveness. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to one important aspect, namely that access to the canadian market must be equal for the whole of the european union, and that is why the remaining visa restrictions for some of the member states, including bulgaria and romania, must be lifted. our close partnership with the united states and canada implies a visa-free regime for all european citizens. that, commissioner, has to happen soon. canada's energy and raw materials resources can be a useful alternative for europe. in the context of what is happening on our eastern borders, i am convinced that we must also deepen the north atlantic partnership in the energy sector. finally, commissioner, last but not least, the communication strategy of the european commission on the trade agreement with the united states and canada must be much better than it has been in the past in order to respond to the concerns of the european public and business, so that rumours and fears about these agreements are not spread, whether with or without reason, as we have seen here and used for ideologically embellished statements by some of my colleagues.
in writing.– as one of the youngest meps, i want to underline that young people must be not only the subject, but also the driver of the european youth initiative. the role of the eu in this process is to create a fruitful enabling environment for developing the potential and realising the ideas of the new generation. an important step in this direction is reforming old rigid structures and promoting new, more flexible systems in every member state. if young people have their say, they will stand up for an education that is no longer focused on memorising and reproducing information, but on fostering practical skills and analytical thinking. this is what the current labour market needs. we must therefore be more proactive with bottom-up initiatives, where young people decide on the design and content of educational and work programmes. if we empower young people, we will have a new generation with the capacity and motivation to build their own professional life. and these will be the problem-solvers, the creators, the entrepreneurs, who can create jobs and move the economy forward. this is the best guarantee for the youth; the only way to tackle youth unemployment.
after the wars in iraq and afghanistan and the weakening of al qaeda, we thought we saw the light of democracy and peace in a region that had been associated for too long with bloodshed and senseless human sacrifice. as a result, however, the international community has chosen to ignore the serious problems that are brewing, especially in iraq - the growing ethnic divisions, the corruption that condemns the common man to poverty, the slumbering but unrooted religious extremism. the terrorist group isis was born precisely from the combination of these problems and the ignorance of the entire western world. we only realized the threat when it affected us personally with the ruthless execution of two western journalists. contrary to expectations, the air campaign launched against the islamic state may temporarily disable but not destroy the organization. airplanes and bombs cannot change people's minds, cannot feed them, cannot give them a perspective on the future. it is therefore necessary, alongside military tactics and humanitarian aid already provided, for eu member states and the european commission to initiate a long-term development plan for iraq, developed in close cooperation with the international community and with the active participation of the local population. its aim should be to create an alternative to the 'islamic state' through better education and economic prospects with european support, but also clear commitments by the iraqi government to ethnic tolerance and stability. the battle against the islamic state is just beginning. as long and difficult as it is, it must be won in the name of the common iraqi people.
madam president, commissioner, mr special representative, i will not stop repeating that the place given to human rights and democracy is the real added value of the union's external policy. the annual report is thus a valuable resource for improving the union's work. i would like to emphasize four points: firstly, the mandate of the special representative for human rights expires next year. we must ensure that this post is renewed, but again, above all, that the special representative is given the means to really play his role, to give coherence, effectiveness and visibility to the union as a promoter of human rights. the second aspect of the report on which i wish to dwell is women's rights and gender equality. i think 2013 was full of initiatives in this area. for example, the integration of a women's rights adviser in 70% of civilian and military operations, the "zero tolerance" initiative for female genital mutilation, the network of women in the diplomatic service. i can only encourage the next high representative to continue these efforts. women's rights are human rights and we know how crucial the role of women is in countries in transition or in peace, so that lasting solutions can be put in place. thirdly, i will emphasize the election monitoring missions to assess the implementation of the recommendations made by the eu election observation missions. when the 2012 annual report was published, i remember calling for better monitoring. in 2013, three missions were deployed. in 2014, i myself led the mission to the democratic republic of congo. this is how we make our support and messages to partners more effective, credible and consistent. finally, i would stress the need for coherence between our various external policies and between our internal and external policies. the transversal nature of human rights must be ensured in trade policy with strategic partners, in our security policies, asylum or migration policies or the example of the fight against terrorism, and in the coherence between our external and internal policies, if necessary, to maintain our credibility as a defender of human rights and as a reliable partner.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in ukraine and the state of eu-russia relations, adopted in parallel with the simultaneous ratification of the association agreement in kiev and strasbourg, as it serves as a reminder of the eu's message: the union is not at war with russia, the union defends the principles of international law, human rights and its fundamental values. part of european identity is at stake in the eu's response to the ukrainian crisis. we reiterate our full commitment to a political, peaceful and lasting solution through dialogue, but remain firm thanks to the sanctions: the minsk ceasefire must be translated into action - the immediate and unconditional withdrawal of troops before a full peace process can begin. parliament called on the member states and the eeas to establish clear criteria for the lifting of sanctions against russia. the council also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, which calls on the commission to take all necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is resolved.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it highlights the holistic and international response needed to the ebola outbreak. the resolution clearly recalls that the epidemic is not an african problem but a global threat. a coordinated international response is needed to contain the outbreak. the rapid progress of the epidemic has surprised the international community and we will have to learn from it, but before that we must support a shared responsibility of african countries, under the aegis of the african union in particular, and support their efforts. this is not just about funding but also about practical means, including qualified and specially trained medical staff. as the adopted text indicates, the epidemic highlights the challenges facing the african continent (porous borders, fragile health and health systems, etc.) and the international coordination in scientific, medical and humanitarian matters that can be improved. finally, the resolution has the merit of anticipating today the long-term consequences of the epidemic, including social consequences, for the african continent, and thus encouraging international partners to propose health, safety and scientific recommendations to mitigate these consequences.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it encourages the containment of the terrorist threat while supporting the action of the iraqi government and involving regional and national actors. the resolution aims to support the unity and territorial integrity of iraq, to ensure the stability and prosperity of the country and to avoid the fragmentation of the region. in addition, the fundamental human right of freedom of thought, conscience and religion is recalled. it also stressed the importance of urgently sending a fact-finding mission to iraq to examine allegations of violations and abuses of international human rights law by the islamic state of iraq and the levant, with a view to ending impunity and establishing accountability. the resolution also draws attention to the situation of women and the increasing recruitment of children and young people in iraq and syria by terrorist groups. it called on the commission and the member states to adopt specific measures to prevent exploitation and all forms of abuse and violence against women.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it first of all recalls the essential principles which must guide the search for a solution and the action of the union: respect for the rule of law, democracy and legitimate institutions, in particular the house of representatives. the union and the international community must focus their assistance on strengthening the state and its sovereignty over the entire territory, in particular in border control. secondly, the resolution rightly welcomes egypt's efforts and the importance of regional dialogue, including with the arab league, for a lasting solution to the libyan crisis. we also insist on better coordination among the various special envoys of international organisations and, in this regard, the appointment of the eu special representative for the southern mediterranean as the new special representative of the un secretary-general in libya may prove useful. the european parliament also called for the migration implications of the crisis to be anticipated and managed: the eu and all its member states must respond in a coordinated way to the influx of refugees.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it stresses above all the role of the eu and the international community in preventing the status quo from taking over. waiting is the game of the extremists, in a context where each crisis anticipates the next. a lasting solution is needed, which will allow both the reconstruction of gaza, the resumption of dialogue between the palestinians on the one hand, and between israel and the palestinian national consensus government on the other, and the stabilisation of the region. as the resolution states, the eu and its member states must play a more active role in relaunching the israeli-palestinian peace process and support the efforts of the egyptian mediator. the eu must also anticipate the spread of terrorist groups in the west bank and the destabilisation of the region, and to do so, work more closely with jordan and egypt. finally, we reiterate our support for a two-state solution based on the 1967 borders as a pragmatic and realistic solution.
thank you, commissioner, for the detailed information on the european union's disaster response tools. the question is how they work and whether they are bound to be as effective as possible. clearly, the time has come to review them or at least to bring them together in a comprehensive legislative package with mutual coordination between them. 300 million euros is the flood losses in bulgaria in the last few months alone. the solidarity fund has released 10 million drops into the sea, and of course it's not enough. and they need to get to the victims from misia, from the black sea coast, from central bulgaria faster, because winter doesn't care about bureaucracy. people are on the street and they don't understand us when we talk about projects and funds. we urgently need simplification of procedures, specific allocations in the cohesion funds and agricultural disaster programmes, and possibilities for crossborder cooperation in disasters and emergencies.
this year has been extremely difficult and severe with floods, both for italy, and so visibly for greece, and for bulgaria. we have dozens of dead, very heavy material damage, caused in many bulgarian villages in misia, in varna, around plovdiv, in the whole northwestern bulgaria. i would like to know what is the principle on which the aid is allocated and the amount of aid that will be granted is determined. i ask this because we are hearing from the media that in neighbouring countries which are not members of the european union, more and larger funds have been allocated. of course, the suffering of the people cannot be measured, but i am curious to know what is the principle by which these funds are determined and how they are distributed. i would also like to know how soon these funds can be received, because the people in these most affected parts of bulgaria - european citizens - need to feel and understand european solidarity right now and to see that there is a sense and there is help in being members of the european union.
, in writing. mr president, as a result of the floods that have occurred in bulgaria over the last four months, many towns and villages have experienced devastating disasters. over 20 victims were reported. in dozens of settlements, all infrastructure and communication links have been cut, and tens of thousands of citizens have yet to rebuild their homes. given the real danger of environmental and epidemiological problems, it was not only the people living in the flooded areas who were affected. according to my official information, the last two bulgarian governments have prepared and defended a claim for damages of eur 311.3 million to the european solidarity fund, and the european commission has announced that it proposes to pay eur 10.5 million instead of eur 12.5 million under the rules. i am convinced that the european commission has a duty to ensure that the damage caused by the floods is not covered by the budget, and i am convinced that the commission has a duty to ensure that the damage caused by the floods is not covered by the budget. in addition, given the shortfall in the 2014 european budget, is the payment of these funds ensured after the procedure is completed?
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, bulgaria is one of the countries that has been hit particularly hard by the floods this year. the floodwaters have swept through dozens of bulgarian cities, claiming lives and leaving thousands homeless. some of the worst flooding has occurred in and around my hometown of varna. the disaster proved that no country can do it alone. the european crisis response mechanism shall provide timely but short-term technical and expert support from other member states. the main compensation instrument, the solidarity fund, is only activated when the extent of the damage is clear, which unfortunately can happen months after the disaster. europe really needs more investment in preventing and fighting natural disasters, and in particular floods, and more clarity on potential natural hazards in individual areas. it's the only way to save lives and reduce damage. it is also of the utmost importance for countries such as bulgaria that the allocation of funds from the solidarity fund is based on the real economic situation of the affected regions, taking into account the impact of the disaster on the people. i believe that through better prevention and simplified rules for crisis response, the eu can help the average european.
madam president, i would like to think that today i stand here before you not so much as an mep but as a young person, because the growing numbers of young people that are unemployed in europe is scaring me, for two reasons. first, i am afraid that my generation could be a lost generation and second, a lot of the young people of today will decide not to realise their potential here in europe. programmes like the youth employment initiative and the youth guarantee, borne out here in this agenda, have ambitious goals backed by substantial funding, and while there is much talk about their aspirations, we know very little about their achievements. i would very much like to know how many young people have benefited from the youth guarantee so far, and what trends we are observing in the reduction of unemployment as a result. i do understand that perhaps the achievements might be difficult to assess and that there is a sound reason for that, but we need to adopt a fundamentally different approach, one that goes beyond pledges and guarantees and devises a grand strategy for tackling the problems faced by youth instead. a three-step plan proposed last year which is based on tax breaks, entrepreneurship investment and skill-based education was backed by the council and the european parliament. providing such a model, as it tackles several key components simultaneously, is crucial. providing security and stability for the young people on our continent requires more than individual programmes and initiatives. it requires an overhaul of old practices, a reform from the bottom up, a change of thinking, culture and decisive action. as the commissioner said, investing in the youth guarantee is crucial. i would say: let us start thinking about how to invest in people more than in guarantees. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i am a true believer that we should create the right environment for young people to develop their potential, to have a place where they can become entrepreneurs and create their own smes. i do not believe that the government is the one that should create jobs, and i do not think that budgetary discipline has anything to do with that.
mr president, it is vitally important that flexibility should be provided in the criteria for excessive deficit targets for public investments, and in investment in educational expenditure. there is absolute agreement not only in part of the house, but throughout the house, that if we want to increase the competitiveness of the european union economy it is of paramount importance to increase investment in innovation. therefore, commissioner, this is a test for the commission to prove that what is being said concerning flexibility in the rules on the european recommendations and deficit reductions is being turned into actual fact by providing space for such investments.
mr president, the specific recommendations that the european commission has been drawing up in the framework of the european semester in recent years have produced very positive results and helped to accelerate the recovery from the crisis and the recovery of economic growth. unfortunately, the waning reform pressure associated with this volatile improvement in the economic situation in some member states is leading to a failure to carry out the heavy-duty reforms needed to stabilise public finances and thus threatens to erase the progress achieved. the commission's analysis shows that these recommendations are not sufficiently taken into account at national level and we need to create stronger guarantees for their implementation if we are to accelerate growth and improve the living standards of our citizens. particular attention should be paid to the need to continue reforms in countries with negative demographic trends that threaten the sustainability of their health and pension systems. in the absence of decisive action, the instability in these systems will exert increasing pressure to deviate from sound fiscal policies and hamper economic growth. the only approach that is responsible to european citizens and future generations is to embark on the path of reform and stop wasting valuable time on wandering and political experimentation.
mr president, mr juncker, in the title of your programme you have emphasized democratic change. i think we can already congratulate you on the great step forward we have made for european democracy with the procedure which led to your election. but more democratic legitimacy for the commission means more expectations from the citizens, and i would like to stress four challenges for the future college. first of all, yes to a more political and efficient commission, but yes, above all, to a more coherent commission. the fact that each commissioner is no longer working in his own corner means that there is greater coherence between the internal and external policies of the union. common policies, better coordination and solidarity between member states: all this is necessary to meet the challenge of the energy union as well as that of our foreign policy. secondly, a comprehensive approach to migration, as you put it, implies real migration diplomacy, as well as a migration policy based on increased dialogue and cooperation with countries of origin and transit, in particular with the countries of the southern mediterranean. because we have to anticipate and tackle the underlying issues, like insecurity or youth unemployment. this also means strengthening a smart visa policy which can serve our economic objectives. thirdly, it is urgent to dispel the notion that there are different categories of european citizens. in this connection, mr juncker, i would ask you to confirm your support for the entry of bulgaria and romania into the schengen area and to defend the principle of free movement of persons. finally, there is the question of equality between men and women. bulgaria has proposed a woman, kristalina georgieva, as commissioner and we are proud of her work capacity and qualities. but today we are talking about economic growth, and it will not happen without the economic potential of women. we therefore count on you and your college to finally encourage and enable the realization of this economic potential of women.
in writing. – today i believe we have to support the juncker team, because it is the responsible and democratic thing to do. juncker received our support as president after declaring his will for real change in european priorities, the main line being his eur 300 billion investment plan for jobs, growth and competitiveness. by saying ‘yes’ to the new college we underscore our support for the commissioners from the socialist family who showed a high level of expertise and commitment at the hearings. the balance in the commission has been improved in the course of negotiations, thanks to the efforts of the group of socialists and democrats. we have better representation, with key portfolios and 3 vice presidents and no important decision can be taken without our approval. yet our support is not unconditional, we will strictly monitor the implementation of junker’s commitments and expect him to uphold his promises. and last, but not least, we should give our support because, if we want a change, we have to participate in every step of achieving it.
mr president, i abstained from supporting the commission because i was not convinced that this commission can deliver the change which the voters expect from this parliament and this commission. the doubts proceed both from the policy statements, which were not clear enough in the realisation that jobs and growth should take first place on the agenda – there was no mention of cohesion policy when, as we all realise, inequalities in present day europe are the most severe challenge to the future of the union – and from the composition of the commission, as mr juncker entrusts his investment package to mr katainen. i believe that forsakes the option of major public investments.
in writing. - with a majority of 423 votes in favour, the european parliament has just appointed the new european commission. the commission's juncker team will start work on 1 november 2014. the new commission's image is really good, as evidenced by the inclusion of strong political figures in key departments and the overall change in the organisational structure itself. the next five years will be a mandate of recognised challenges on the part of the european institutions and a clear benchmark for how the european union is developing close to its citizens and responding to today's challenges or distant and increasingly criticized. for me personally, from all the debates and programmes proposed, the only clear conclusion is that reforms are the only alternative for all member states! the majority of political groups are unanimous that without structural reforms in a number of key sectors, our european family will not be able to develop its potential and advantages as the richest, freest and most peaceful community in the world. i sincerely hope that the new european commission will play the important role of a change engine in europe and will be able to work fruitfully with all national governments in the years to come. you have my support. good luck with that.
when the terrorist organization islamic state in iraq and syria was renamed solely islamic state, none of us could have predicted its geopolitical impact on the situation in the middle east, the war in syria or the fragile stability in iraq. suddenly, the terrorist organization has gone from an idea to a brutal reality and an important player not only in the regions listed above, but also with influence on international partnerships. in this line of thought, kobane is a symbol of destruction and the lost destinies of humanity, but also of the strength of the spirit of a people. the outcome of the battle for the city will inevitably be of strategic importance to the fight against the islamic state. if kobane falls, the chances of syria and iraq falling under the control of terrorists increase. if kobane is saved, it will give hope to thousands of peaceful citizens, regardless of ethnicity and religious background, that the islamic state can be defeated with united forces. so national strategic interests must be put aside in the name of the common goal of defeating the islamic state and saving thousands more lives. it is important that we all together - the united states, the european countries, turkey and the other coalition partners - provide the necessary support to the kurdish population who are fighting on the front line. i welcome the actions of individual states, but i also call for a clear strategy of the international community to fight against the islamic state. this battle is not just the battle of the people of kobane, it is the battle of all of us, and we have a moral obligation to win it with united forces.
there is a genocide going on in the syrian city of kobane. for months, the thugs of the islamic state have beheaded, shot, crucified hundreds of men, and kidnapped thousands of women, girls and children. kurds and yazidis, christians, victims of this genocide, have lived peacefully on these lands for thousands of years. this is a grave crime against humanity under the united nations convention on the prevention and punishment of the crime of genocide, adopted in 1948. this genocide against christians, kurds and yazidis in kobani, syria and iraq is being carried out by the criminal organisation islamic state with the complicity, assistance, military and logistical support of the republic of turkey led by president recep tayyip erdogan. kobani is an example of kurdish self-rule and this is the reason why erdogan is sitting idly by and watching the slaughter of the civilian population by the islamists he supports. it's part of his anti-islamic policy. turkey's policy in the region is directed against the interests and security of the european union, in particular against the interests and security of bulgaria and the balkans. i urge this chamber to strongly condemn the genocide perpetrated by the islamic state and to loudly condemn and condemn the complicity of the republic of turkey and president erdogan in this war crime against humanity.
unfortunately, there are hundreds of europeans in the ranks of the islamic state who reject european values and embrace other, extremist values and norms. to me, this is proof that the terrorist organization has become an idea, if not a mirage. the question is how to dispel this mirage. one way is through coercive measures that have been talked about recently, such as restricting the right to travel of people suspected of terrorism. or by the accelerated adoption of the passenger data directive, as called for by the council. however, those measures must respect fundamental human rights and the protection of personal data and must have sufficient guarantees that they will not be misused. the above proposals, however, are short-term solutions to a much deeper problem: many europeans feel excluded from european society and are looking for another way of achieving their personal goals, whether through terrorism. i truly believe that in a tolerant and inclusive society, the number of people who want to join terrorist organizations is significantly lower. i also believe that violence can be prevented by more respect for different cultures. the number of europeans in the ranks of the islamic state is proof to me that europe unfortunately has a long way to go before the european values enshrined in the fundamental treaties are fully accepted. until then, however, coercive measures may prove to be the only way to guarantee european security.
the presence of thousands of fighters with european passports in syria today is undoubtedly a huge problem. it's a problem primarily in western societies. at the heart of this problem is the over-tolerance, the over-tolerance that has allowed people with radical views to preach freely in the heart of europe for years; that has allowed people who do not share our values to impose their values on us. it is time and it is right that as european societies, as national governments, as the european parliament and as the commission, we reconsider this position of ours, to choose whether we will protect our borders and our citizens or let these people do with our countries what they want. what you need to know is that these people don't organize themselves. what you need to know is that the republic of turkey is organizing the illegal fighters towards syria and back towards europe. this behaviour of the republic of turkey is extremely harmful and dangerous first of all for bulgaria, and hence for the entire european union, and we have to consider whether this country deserves to be a candidate member and a member of the european union.
i strongly object to the unacceptable and unlawful interference of the republic of turkey in the internal affairs of the republic of bulgaria a sovereign state, a member of the european union. for more than 20 years, the republic of turkey has been interfering in our internal affairs by organizing elections on its territory in violation of the bulgarian electoral law, in violation of all good practices, good norms and good morals. this situation has been further exacerbated by the election of president recep tayyip erdoğan, who has made no secret of his neo-ottoman ambitions to restore the ottoman empire. after these elections, the last ones held in bulgaria last month, more than 60,000 votes were organized by the republic of turkey, in violation of our electoral law, and changed the election result in a number of bulgarian cities, which provoked protests in gabrovo, in dupnica, in kyustendil and in other cities. this practice, as well as erdogan's support for the islamic state, shows the non-european character of turkey and shows that this state has no place in the european union.
in the art world, the creators of non-verbal works - music, sculpture, ballet - communicate without barriers with audiences in any country, regardless of the language in which they are spoken. this does not apply to authors of literary works that need to be translated. today in european bookstores you will hardly see a book by a bulgarian, romanian, polish, hungarian author. the european commission has a 'creative europe' department which funds the translation of books of 15 to 20 works, rather than single works. when the translation is funded, the author is given equal status in the multilingual european territory. any publisher who has decided that a book by an author in the european union is worth printing and distributing should receive direct funding from the european union for translation under a simplified procedure, and i call on the european commission to adopt this approach. it's a chance for the talented piece to break through. as the author of two books, i know that the true criterion is the judgment of the publisher and the reader. this will not discriminate against the smaller european languages, and the european union will reject linguistic discrimination one of the last on its territory.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate the european court of auditors for its readable annual report that delivers important insights for our attention. in this respect we should have in mind that the eu budget should have a robust and consistent system for assessment of member state gnis. correct information in this area is indispensable because the gni-based own resources form approximately 70% of the eu budget. from that point of view, for me it is strange that the european court of auditors has found such a big amount of discrepancies in the work done by the commission concerning not only its verification strategy, but also the verification process and the whole process of reporting. the commission in its reply does not agree with most of the european court of auditors’ findings. without going into details of the report, it seems to me that both entities have a completely different approach towards almost everything from a methodological, macroeconomic and managerial point of view. in this respect i have some doubts. firstly, after having the negative assessment of the work of the gni committee, which includes representatives from the member states and is chaired by eurostat, may we rely on the statistical information regularly delivered from these institutions? secondly, while there are several well-known international organisations that distribute macroeconomic information for the countries in the world, for example, the imf, world bank and eurostat, may we expect to have a sufficient level of similarity comparing the data from all these sources? despite the abovementioned doubts in the situation, there is something positive. the commission recognises the importance of the recommendations and agrees to follow them. additionally, the execution of the european union budget and the auditing should focus on results and on whether the set objectives are achieved and, in this way, the budget can be improved only if member states coordinate their activities with local and regional authorities at the very beginning of the preparation of the programmes and procedures. the identification of best practice projects at european level also could be helpful.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, what turkey is doing today in violation of international law is one consequence of what it was doing when turkish troops occupied cyprus. the behaviour of the republic of turkey is deeply worrying. it is provocative to every country in the region. do i remind you of the provocations against the state of israel, do i remind you of the provocations that turkey is making by directing illegal immigrants to the territory of greece and bulgaria. the behaviour of turkey, governed by its neo-ottoman doctrine, has no intention, in my view, of continuing turkey's efforts to join the european union. the current behaviour of turkey is not the behaviour of a european state, it is the behaviour of an aggressor state and i strongly urge both this house and the commission to take a stand, to express their insistence at the highest level that this behaviour of an aggressor should be stopped.
in writing. – the anti-immigration rhetoric in europe is one of the most worrying tendencies gaining traction in our union. freedom of movement, which is in fact one of the core principles of the eu, is threatened due to the growing fears of welfare drain, expressed by some of the wealthier nations. crucially, however, we need to distinguish between free movement of people and free access to member states’ social assistance systems. it is inappropriate and extremely worrying that some european countries point to ‘benefit tourism’ as a pretext for curbing immigration and hence for restricting the basic rights of the eu citizens. admittedly, the number of beneficiaries of social welfare in some states, like germany, has grown in the recent months, yet it has been established that immigrants, on average, receive less financial assistance than the local population in the host country. in britain, for instance, immigrants contributed 64% more in taxes than they received in welfare in the past 10 years. even if ‘benefits tourism’ was a real danger, it would still not be a sufficient reason to limit free movement. as i previously pointed out in an open letter to british pm david cameron, and confirmed by the ecj ruling from 11 november this year, countries are under no obligation to pay social benefits to migrants if they are economically inactive. spelling out and uniformly applying such rules across the european economic area can counter populist anti-immigration debates, which undermine the very pillars of the european union. i thus welcome the extension of the eea agreement to including cooperation concerning free movement of workers, coordination of social security systems and measures for migrants, including migrants from third countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my native country, the republic of bulgaria, was until recently considered an example of balanced ethno-religious relations, and thanks to its model of tolerance, it was the only country in the balkans to make a bloodless transition from totalitarianism to democracy, despite the forced change of names and the banning of muslim religious practices between 1984 and 1989. unfortunately, after the country's accession to the eu, we are witnessing a kind of boom of extreme nationalisms, the language of ethno-religious hatred, to get the xenophobic political force the patriotic front directly involved in the current government of the country. today, bulgaria is the only eu member state with a total ban on the use of mother tongues in election campaigns. in this context, we find it particularly important to know that the chairman of the dps, mr. lütvi mestan, and seven other colleagues have been fined by the judicial authorities because during their pre-election meetings with voters they uttered some of their phrases in their mother tongue. note that this is not limited to your mother tongue. that includes me. today i present to you the decision of the central election commission. lately, we've been hearing voices from the highest levels. the deputy prime minister of the republic, mrs. rumyana bucharova, pleads for the removal of the five-minute news in the mother tongue from the national television. i am ringing the bell here in the european parliament and calling on the european institutions to engage with the case before it is too late.
on behalf of the ecr group mr president, commissioner, colleagues, guests, i would first like to thank rapporteur auschrevicius, the shadow rapporteurs, the political advisers and the afet secretariat for the hard work on the report. there is no better time to conclude an association agreement between the european union and moldova. this will give new impetus to moldova's efforts to integrate politically and economically into the european union. for most moldovans, the european union is synonymous with prosperity, stability and democracy, and it is our duty to give the moldovan authorities the opportunity to choose the path they will follow. the agreement with moldova is of great importance to me as a bulgarian. you know that in the southern part of moldova, in the taraklia region, 70% of the population is bulgarian-speaking and there is even a university where they teach in their native language. as early as the 19th century, many bulgarians fleeing the ottoman empire settled in the region of bessarabia - today's ukraine and part of moldova, with a combined population of perhaps 500,000. that is why i strongly hope that moldova will strictly and accurately fulfil its commitments to the eu and ensure the protection of the rights and freedoms, both political and ethnic, of minorities in the country, including the right of association, the right to use the mother tongue and the right to self-determination. i am surprised that colleagues from the left and the liberal spectrum objected to the naming of national minorities in moldova, preferring to pay attention to others. let us not forget the destructive role of the republic of turkey, which is seeking to turkify a part of the ethnic gagauz community in the territory of moldova. in conclusion, i want to make it clear that only by protecting the democratic, social, political and economic rights of all minorities in moldova will it be possible to ensure its territorial integrity and move the country forward towards deeper european integration. the eu-moldova association agreement is just another step towards integrating the country and its citizens into the european model. moldova is a european country and we are all connected to it, both historically and culturally, and i hope that one day we will accept it as a full member of the european union.
author. - mr president, on behalf of the committee on regional development, i wish to express my concerns at the delay in adoption of the operational programmes (ops), the delay in implementation of cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020, as well as the risks we are facing that 2015 will be another zero year. implementation of cohesion policy was supposed to start in 2014, but the programming stage is still far from being finalised. only a limited number of operational programmes have been adopted and, according to the latest information available, only just over one hundred programmes will actually be adopted by the end of this year. moreover, for programmes not ready for adoption by 31 december 2014, 2014 commitments can only be preserved by rebudgeting uncommitted amounts from 2014, in accordance with article 19 of the multiannual financial framework regulation. however, this implies a revision of the multiannual financial framework, on the basis of a commission proposal with the council’s agreement and parliament’s consent. as a direct consequence, there will be a significant delay in the actual start-up of project implementation. however, 2014 should not be a lost year as regards investments from the five european structural and investment funds. in this context i would like to table the following question. in the light of the above, can the commission indicate the exact state of play as regards the adoption of the partnership agreement and operational programmes and the estimated timeframe for starting their implementation? what were the main problems encountered, and by which member states? what is the commission’s current position regarding the treatment of commitments for operational programmes co-financed by the european regional development fund, the european social fund, the european agricultural fund for rural development, the european maritime and fisheries fund and the cohesion fund, which will not be adopted by the end of 2014? why has the issue of rebudgeting uncommitted amounts from 2014 in 2015, through revision of the multiannual financial framework, not been brought to parliament’s attention until now? what can be done to ensure that the revision process goes smoothly and is finalised before 1 may 2015, as specified in article 19 of the multiannual financial framework regulation, so as to avoid losing uncommitted amounts from 2014? in this connection, does the commission envisage taking any measures to facilitate implementation of the operational programme? the commission should analyse all possibilities in order to ensure that all operational programmes resubmitted after the deadline of 24 november 2014 are taken into consideration in order to conclude the inter-service consultation by the end of the year and be treated as ready for adoption if they fulfil the quality requirements. we are aware that the rebudgeting of uncommitted amounts from 2014 in 2015, under article 19 of the multiannual financial framework, implies a revision of the multiannual financial framework by 1 may 2015, which, even if it is technical, has to comply with the multiannual budget procedure: a commission proposal for revision of the mff, consent by parliament and unanimous adoption by the council. moreover, it should be stressed that, in order to have the operational programmes adopted, a corresponding draft amending budget covering the commitment appropriations for 2015 also needs to be approved. this implies, in the best-case scenario, a delay in actually starting to implement those programmes until mid-2015. what measures does the new commission plan to take to speed up programming in order to ensure that the adoption of ops takes place as soon as possible without lowering their quality? can the commission provide information as to how the situation with regard to unpaid bills from the 2007-2013 programming period affects the adoption of ops and the start of the new implementation period?
i am grateful to the commissioner for the fact that in recent days you have even proposed the creation of a working party to help countries in a particularly difficult situation. 2015 threatens to be a near-zero year for the use of european funds. with great concern we, the bulgarian socialists, point out the risks: the programmes stop in countries that cannot afford to compensate for the euro funds through their national budgets. the risk of bankruptcy leads to job losses. the lack of timely financing will lead to the freezing of farmers, smes, municipalities and infrastructure projects. the suspension of payments and the failure to approve programmes threaten to turn the policy from a policy of convergence into a policy of divergence and to increase euroscepticism, as people do not recognise the european union as a partner. so far, only one operational program is safe for bulgaria. please dispel any suspicion that the delay in approving programmes is being done to save european union funds. i expect the european commission to evaluate all the programmes already deposited by the end of this year. we insist that, in cases of purely technical adjustments, the programmes concerned be approved as a matter of priority and that the time limits be shortened: at the beginning of the next year, the reprogramming and approval of the others should indeed be carried out within a shorter time frame.
commissioner, in this room we often debate how to improve the conditions for doing business in europe and help entrepreneurial and innovative companies create jobs and economic growth. access to finance is certainly one of the main problems facing smes. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial contribution to the european union's budget for the financial year 2000 is a good one. these issues are already a priority for the new commission, which will be made up of you and will work for better regulation in the european union. congratulations on your strong speech, which stands behind the development of small and medium-sized enterprises earlier today in the plenary. the principle of thinking small first should continue to apply by systematically conducting the so-called 'sme test' when assessing the impact of future legislative initiatives. given the highly competitive market environment in which most of them operate, even a small reduction in administrative burden could prove crucial for the development and expansion of their business. it is incomprehensible and unacceptable to me that the revised draft commission guidelines do not include any provisions on the sme test. it should be integrated as a mandatory element in the impact assessment process and more attention should be paid to its proper implementation.
no, i do not accept it.
thank you, madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her thorough work. employment and social affairs are one of the key elements of the europe 2020 strategy, which aims to ensure inclusive growth. we are behind efforts to provide employment for 75% of the european union's population aged 20 to 64, to reduce the proportion of early school leavers to below 10% and to reduce the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion by at least 20 million. but at the same time we realise that the greatest scourge of europe is still the unemployed young people. in march 2014, nearly 5 340 000 young people under 25 were unemployed in the european union. we cannot expect young people to participate in the political life of europe when they are unemployed. alongside other european union mechanisms, smes are one of the main tools for successfully tackling youth unemployment. they have significant job creation potential and play a crucial role in the transition to a new sustainable economy. it is for this reason that i would like to emphasise the need to create a favourable environment for smes by ensuring easier access to credit, removing unnecessary administrative barriers and, of course, the need for their connectivity and internationalisation. i therefore call on the european commission:- to promote mobility mechanisms, and in particular the european vocational mobility portal. a number of studies have shown that a mobile workforce has benefits for both parties. the european commission estimates that 2 million jobs in the european union cannot be filled due to low levels of mobility; - support the development of cooperation with the private sector and ensure the link between education and the labour market.
madam president, i would like to invite mrs thyssen to comment on point 35 of the draft motion, which calls on the commission to open a public consultation procedure for the review of the european semester in order to improve its effectiveness and legitimacy, because it is clear, madam commissioner, that we do not need partial and auxiliary measures but a basic redefinition of the policy paradigm. and i will only quote the conclusion of the commission in its march communication, which pointed out that for decades the eu has been a model of a mechanism which breeds cohesion and convergence, and this convergence process, says the report, has slowed and even gone into reverse.
in writing. despite the principles of solidarity and equality between member states and the eu's efforts, there are still regions where the population is progressively impoverished. the poorest region in the eu is north-west bulgaria, which is facing a severe demographic disaster, a progressive decline in population, ageing, high unemployment rates, low economic activity and prospects, extremely high levels of migration to other regions of bulgaria and abroad. to overcome these negative economic and demographic trends, a mechanism at eu level should be adopted for direct investment in these regions in the areas of education, employment promotion, financial support to small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the backbone of the economy in such regions. bulgaria needs a similar mechanism that is geared towards regional incentives, because in the last 25 years, 2 million people have immigrated from the country. in addition, the bulgarian population is progressively decreasing, as in some regions there is no economic prospect and people flee from there, which raises the question of disintegration of these regions from more developed and economically more stable ones. the commission and parliament should bear in mind that a new, more active, more flexible and stable approach is needed to the poorest regions, because they are at a disadvantage compared to the more developed regions, where investment and policies national and european are concentrated.
in writing. i voted in favour of my colleague davo stier's report because it is a very good report, which was drawn up with the aim of strengthening the position of the european parliament and the european union in the implementation of the post-2015 development goals. the report stresses the need to put human rights at the heart of overall development policy. in particular, access to education, including secondary education and for girls, is emphasised as a key objective for development. the call for a stronger partnership with civil society and private actors is also very much needed, especially as smes are a key element for development in all countries. the report has the merit of reflecting on a more significant role for emerging countries in the overall development policy. finally, the report has placed women at the centre of development: the new goals and development cannot be achieved without an improvement in the rights of women in the world.
thank you, madam president, 'the silent cry of violence', as we called the forum in bulgaria dedicated to the fight against violence against women a few days ago. these words are not just a sad statement, but a willingness to deal with the problem. the message i have to convey to you, commissioner, today, from the victims, from the institutions and from the civil society organisations is not new bodies and institutions, but a strategy and laws that should not only protect but also prevent these crimes, which we are afraid to talk about but which we see more and more every day. we do not have enough instruments at either european or national level. it is imperative that the istanbul convention be ratified and put into effect, not just a piece of paper. because paradoxically, it was signed in turkey, and today erdogan says that women should stay at home. the bulgarian women's lobby has launched an initiative to collect one million signatures. it starts in the bulgarian town of yambol, but it will reach all the women in europe so that the necessary directive and laws can be drawn up.
mr. president, the lampedusa tragedy has triggered an emergency and has focused all efforts on the mediterranean. results were achieved, thousands of lives were saved. at the same time, some of the laws already passed have shown breaches. the need to revise the dublin agreements, which have placed the greatest burden of refugee flows on the countries on the union's external borders, is clear. the principle of solidarity is being violated, and new rules on quota allocation and integration are needed. the focus today is the mediterranean, but not least the problems of land borders. in the last few days alone, refugees have been found frozen to death on the border between bulgaria and serbia, and in october alone, nearly 1,500 people have crossed the border into turkey. we need a policy on so-called legal routes, common legislation to combat smuggling and human trafficking, increased powers for frontex and something else that you, commissioner, did not mention: the fight against, prevention of and danger of the importation of terrorism.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the human disasters in the mediterranean have shown that the union cannot simply be complacent about the security of its borders when it comes to migration policy. the internal and external dimensions are closely linked. i would like to emphasize three elements. firstly, as far as frontex is concerned, we must clearly define the role that frontex will play in an integrated approach to migration. finally, operation triton is strictly limited to border controls, given that the budget is limited and its technical equipment remains dependent on the member states' equipment commitments. there are still many open questions about the measures that will be taken to complete operation triton in the mediterranean sea. secondly, it is essential today to put an end to the smuggling of migrants. the only instrument we have is the un protocol against the smuggling of migrants. the union must have a mechanism to monitor the protocol and, above all, do a great deal of work on information and data on trafficking, on the path to be followed, on recruitment techniques, on the most vulnerable people. finally, there is the question of cooperation with third countries. the causes of refugee flows and irregular immigration, both economic and political, must be addressed. it is clear that migration policy must be fully integrated into the union's external action in economic and trade relations, conflict prevention and development policy. therefore, commissioner avramopoulos, i would like you to work with the high representative mogherini and commissioner hahn. we will support your joint actions because they will make europe more responsive to the needs of its citizens.
in writing. during the hearing in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i asked mr avramopoulos how soon he could develop a common legal and economic framework on migration, what immediate measures he would take and what action he would take as soon as possible in relation to the migratory pressure at europe's borders, if elected. i'm glad that today, these questions have been given much deeper analysis and data. i welcome the political will and determination of the commission, as expressed by mr avramopoulos, to develop a comprehensive approach in the form of a common charter on migration to overcome the fragmentation in this area, calling for an accelerated timetable for its development and, above all, for the emphasis to be placed on solidarity in the shouldering of responsibilities between member states.
for two years, the european union has been facing unprecedented migratory pressures, stemming from the ongoing conflicts and volatility in its neighbourhood. member states like bulgaria, the external borders of the european union, are the first to welcome thousands of refugees in 2014, some 30 000 people tried to cross our national border illegally. unfortunately, however, countries like bulgaria do not have the capacity and the financial capacity to cope with the pressure. as a result, there are crises within the european union - crises in refugee camps, crises at the external borders, crises at the internal borders, such as in calais, crises in public opinion and, consequently, a crisis of tolerance. the only possible response is more solidarity between member states. i am not just talking about financial solidarity, although that is also necessary. i am talking about concrete measures to be taken by other eu members on the relocation and reception of refugees. the current situation demonstrates that even the updated dublin regulation is not sufficient to effectively manage refugee flows in europe. i welcome commissioner avramopoulos's promise to review european legislation, but i also urge him to do so as soon as possible in order to find quick answers to urgent problems.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. president, commissioner, colleagues, perhaps the only one in this chamber today who is not quoting the pope for the sake of diversity, but i will try to draw your attention to a problem which i believe is extremely important, namely the problem of illegal immigration, which is at the borders of the european union. yes, of course, when we talk about refugees, when we talk about people in need, we are obliged to help, but when we talk about illegal immigrants, things are very different. yes, spain has a problem, yes, greece has a problem, yes, italy has a problem, yes bulgaria has a problem with the illegal crossing of our state borders by tens, by hundreds, by thousands of people. and yes, the european commission should propose a fair way to share the burden, both financial and human, of these illegal immigrants, but what we should know is that the increased flow of illegal immigrants into our territory has increased the crime factor and increased the incidence of public order violations. this is something we can't continue to allow to happen. i respect the right and duty of every state to protect its national borders, it is its fundamental right and duty. the border fence must be crossed, but only at the checkpoints. and let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget that there is a country that organizes the trafficking, and that is the country of turkey, which directs the illegal immigrants in the direction of bulgaria and greece.
mr president, we are celebrating the 25th anniversary of this convention, but a few months ago we had to mobilize for the girls kidnapped by boko haram and a year ago we awarded the sakharov prize to malala yousafzai. this shows that nothing is yet won. i would like to stress five points. two hundred and fifty thousand child soldiers, two hundred and fifty thousand children who are in danger of never finding their place in society again and who will reproduce the cycles of violence in which they grew up. the european union must do everything possible for children in conflict situations with initiatives such as the children of peace. this brings me to my second point, access to education. we must guarantee access to education in conflict situations to prevent children from joining armed groups, but also so that in the reconstruction period, the young people who have received an education are the ones who hold the hope of a country. thirdly, i would like to stress that children's rights go hand in hand with women's rights, particularly in the area of health, because there is a strong link between women's health, newborn health and child development. fourthly, i think we need to take a greater look at the role of the internet. the internet makes millions of children vulnerable to abuse. children's rights defenders, including the eu member states, must take advantage of this tool of the internet and improve their cooperation. finally, it is through the lens of child protection, before that of migration policy, that we must consider the situation of migrant and refugee children while guarding against criminal networks that would like to take advantage of this priority we give to children's rights. ladies and gentlemen, the challenges are indeed many, but i believe that if we put our actions in line with the document that has been ratified, the results will come soon.
ladies and gentlemen, the 25th anniversary of the adoption of the un convention on the rights of the child is like any other anniversary - enough time has passed to assess the progress made, but not enough time to fully comply with all the rules set out in the convention. the document contains universal principles for the rights of all children regardless of their origin and culture, valid at all times and without exception, existing for the simple reason that children are born. although a number of countries have brought their legislation into line with the convention, the idea that children have rights is not widely accepted. too many children are still considered property, subject to exploitation and violence, or drawn against their will into direct conflict. as a union of democratic states, the european union has a moral obligation to lead by example in implementing the convention on the rights of the child. it must develop policies that put today's children and tomorrow's active european citizens first. all actions taken, whether in terms of economic recovery or ensuring long-term security, must be in the interest of a better future for our children. i hope that we will soon be discussing not how to overcome, but how we have overcome the challenges of ensuring the rights of the child.
mr president, i am very passionate about digitalisation but so, i think, is this commission, as the digital single market is one of the main priorities. i look forward to working together with the commission on delivering the ambitious promises that we have been making since the beginning of this mandate. the internet is a global and common resource. it is not for commerce alone, nor for one company or country alone. digital policy brings about real, measurable effects that impact our citizens. internet neutrality is one example. i want to reaffirm my commitment to net neutrality. through enacting legislation, we have paved the way for the internet to act as a key driver of competitiveness, growth, social development and innovation. roaming is another clear example of the way digital policies impact europeans. i would not exaggerate at all by saying that lifting roaming charges would be an absolutely revolutionary step. we should dare to do it. i am confident that member states’ governments will stand together with consumers to ensure an end to roaming premiums as soon as possible. the topic we are discussing today is especially important to our businesses. we need a tough market referee to ensure a fair playing field for all – search engines or otherwise – but we do not need to target companies. the eu’s job is to protect the playing field, not protect or target the players. europe needs the ‘can do’ spirit. new ideas should be welcomed. those who succeed should be celebrated and not punished through extra rules and taxes. new ideas and approaches are very much needed in the public sector. europe cannot be digital if the public sector is not digital. a digital public sector can build and shape new markets, save taxpayers money and ensure public services reflect the way we actually live our lives today. digitalisation means disruptive, rather than incremental, development and this is the future ahead of us. i say we start really investing in it today.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully share the views of the rapporteur of this motion for a resolution. the name of the seychelles has become a symbol of war crimes, it has become a symbol of destruction, of the civil war that has been waged on the territory of the former yugoslavia for more than fifteen years, claiming hundreds of thousands of lives, destroying destinies, destroying homes, destroying infrastructure, destroying relations in the balkans. this great power, this chauvinistic policy of the seychelles has led to millions of people leaving their homelands and still not returning. and this policy still continues as an echo of his actions in tsarebrod, in bosilegrad, in surdulica and so on. this cannot be passed over without comment. war criminals belong in prison, not on the outside.
in writing. today's vote of no confidence in the juncker commission failed as expected with the support of just 101 meps. the serious majority of 461 meps against showed that the overall vote was flawed and failed to mobilise more serious support from the political groups. the desired effect was not achieved. on the contrary, expectations of a vote of no confidence in the european commission and its president personally met with the exact opposite reaction. in this vote, juncker was supported by more meps than when he was elected president in october. moreover, the voting procedure was also indicative of the role and potential of far-right and anti-european parties in the european parliament, namely: low support, inability to conduct a quality debate and presenting a predominantly populist argument. the real effect was the unified position of the majority of parties from across the political spectrum in parliament, as well as the further stabilisation of jean-claude juncker's positions.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which highlights the complexity of the problem of under-nutrition and malnutrition among children worldwide. under-nutrition is a real challenge which is a major determinant of the achievement of the global development goals. the resolution rightly stresses that the response to malnutrition is not only a global political commitment, but also a response that integrates the different dimensions (agriculture, education, health, infrastructure, access to drinking water, rural exodus, sanitation, etc.), a response that must be based on consistency between the internal and external policies of the european union. in addition, the role of women is crucial in the fight against malnutrition and must be given even more weight in the policies and initiatives put in place by the european union: women are at the forefront of breastfeeding, producing, purchasing, preparing and distributing food within the family. the precise identification of the causes of under- and malnutrition in each affected country or region is necessary to provide an appropriate response.
we are commenting here on the question of the good reputation of road haulage and passenger transport. i would also like to raise another issue which is related to this topic, namely the level of protection of competition in this sector and good practices generally accepted. because there are provisions and practices in individual national laws which discriminate against small carriers at the expense of large ones, those of one member state at the expense of those of other member states. do you consider it normal, for example, that the french and belgian legislation requires that weekly rest be taken in a hotel rather than in the cab of a lorry as is the case in the past? is this not discrimination against smaller transport companies from the rest of the union? another issue concerns third country carriers outside the union. i would like to draw attention here to the extremely undisciplined turkish carriers and to the turkish legislation which does everything possible to hinder the other carriers from other member states. they do not comply with union rules for obvious reasons. this creates tension, including social tension. we can't turn a blind eye to this. so before we talk about good practice, we need to address the problems of unfair state aid and regulate equal treatment, stop inequality.
in the previous mandate of the european parliament, we succeeded in pushing for a higher level of funding for the fund for european aid to the most deprived. we should be pleased that the european commission recently approved operational programmes under the fund in 16 member states worth over €1.5 billion. some of it is directed at food aid for the poorest, but the most important thing for all of us is to help these people get out of poverty. i therefore call on the european commission to monitor the use of the fund and to monitor whether member states are focusing not only on material assistance but also on labour market participation measures.
tomorrow the european commission will present its programme intentions and prospects for the development of the union. we also heard mr juncker's ambitious ideas for a return on investment, for putting the european economy back on its feet through the active participation of the public and private sectors. in two days, the council will have its say. success is about collective and coordinated action. at the same time, governments and individual politicians in europe are trying to bluster, to block the way out of the crisis. britain's anti-immigrant policies, the incitement against eastern european countries, the extreme statements of french politicians against bulgaria and romania's membership in schengen, xenophobic sentiments are displacing european rules and creating new dividing lines and mistrust. migration has become an election issue and an argument for political squabbles, a dangerous flirtation with citizens and a play on people's fears about jobs and social security. no political argument, no political goal can justify such a policy. it is in the hands of the new commission to tackle these dangerous trends and to protect the right of free movement of european citizens, their right to work.
the two legislative packages were adopted amid unprecedented pressure to strengthen economic governance and overcome the uncertainties that have arisen. the review prepared by the european commission shows that the new coordination rules and economic and budgetary policies have achieved positive results in reducing budget deficit levels. while some of the new instruments, such as the automatic sanctions mechanism, have not been implemented in practice, their deterrent effect creates a strong incentive to pursue a sound budgetary policy. it is crucial to have a reliable and functioning system to ensure that the old mistakes of deregulation are avoided. only their consistent implementation will lead member states to implement the necessary structural reforms and stability-oriented fiscal policies that improve competitiveness and foster job creation. it is also necessary to improve incentives for the implementation of country-specific recommendations, which have so far not been sufficiently taken into account at national level. the new framework allows for sufficient flexibility in relation to exceptional circumstances and any amendment would only undermine confidence in its reliability. the same standards should be applied to the identification of such circumstances to ensure that small member states meet the same criteria as large member states. i call on the european commission to ensure that these rules are respected, taking objectively into account the political commitment of member states to reform and the results achieved.
mr dombrovskis, you seem to have forgotten the first sentence of your own report, which states that the aim of the new mechanisms is to strengthen economic governance in order to achieve sustainable convergence, economic growth and jobs. furthermore, the key question of this review is how far the new rules have contributed to the sustainable convergence of the economic development of the member states. in your brief opening remarks you did not mention a single fact, a single figure, that it was moving towards achieving these essential goals of the new economic governance. are you able to answer this question right here, right now?
in writing. ‒ with an absolute majority of 569 votes in favour, the european parliament re-elected ms emily o'reilly as european ombudsman for the new parliamentary term 2014-2019. i think that it would be difficult to find a better choice for this post than a person who is called upon to serve as a guarantor that the european institutions will always adhere to the principle of good administration in their work and strictly respect the rights of european citizens. her broad political support and her strong candidacy are proof of that. in her short time in office during the last term, following the resignation of mr nikiforos diamandurus, emily o'reilly has managed to show that she is determined to make full use of the functions and powers that the european ombudsman has in the name of the people. the launching of a variety of strategic inquiries in the public interest, the observance of the principle of good governance in all decisions taken and the emphasis on the fact that the fundamental values on which the eu is built must complement the community's legal rules are just some of the examples of good and useful work by ms o'reilly. work is also about to start on the new 'towards 2019' strategy, with the main priorities of ensuring inclusiveness, increasing visibility and achieving greater impact.
in writing. the commission work programme for 2015 is written in the same spirit as the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. this rhetoric is not working, and on the contrary, people continue to lose faith in the european institutions and the eu as a whole. this new impetus for jobs, growth and investment that the commission is talking about is more than necessary, but if the right measures are not put in place and the problems that have been encountered so far are not resolved, the result will be disastrous. smart, sustainable and inclusive growth means only one thing: special attention must be paid to the poorest regions in the eu, because their problems are spreading across the eu. people are fleeing these regions for nothing more than survival. there is no work, no prospects, no future. this is the first reason for mass migration, which creates social tensions in the member states and puts freedom of movement at risk. if the commission's efforts are not concentrated on the poorest regions but continue to serve the interests of certain member states, i would not be surprised if there were even more mass migration and depopulation of entire regions. there is no turning back, and we will face even bigger problems, which will not challenge any particular policy, and the eu itself will be at risk.
between 19 june and 2 august, devastating floods devastated the poorest eu member state. the result was 15 dead, hundreds of homes destroyed, and thousands of bulgarians left homeless. the bulgarian government estimated the losses in the country at around eur 30 million. i wrote a letter to the former president of the european commission, mr barroso, asking for emergency aid from the solidarity fund of 20 million euros. this aid has not yet been granted. i hope the appeal of europe's poorest country will be heard with the new budget. the lack of a budget for 2015 makes european union citizens the victims. thousands of impoverished families and stricken citizens are waiting for your support. we need money, we need real help from the european commission, because otherwise this budget will be a victim of people and such tragic cases will be more and more frequent in the future.
in writing. over the past summer, bulgaria suffered damage of over eur 300 million as a result of devastating floods in various parts of the country. the floods claimed dozens of lives, hundreds were evacuated and housed in temporary shelters. parts of public infrastructure were destroyed - roads, power lines and public transport facilities. it is essential to restore infrastructure and cover the costs of rescue operations and clean up flood-affected regions. this is also the case in bulgaria's neighbors, serbia and croatia. i believe that now is the right time for the european union to show its sympathy and solidarity with the victims of disasters and that europe is indeed close to its citizens.
in writing. when the negotiations on the draft 2015 budget and the 2014 amending budgets failed a month ago, the european union was on the verge of a new financial crisis due to deferred, delayed or unpaid payments, which would have affected bulgaria very seriously. given that european funds represent the largest share of foreign investment in the country, each delay in payments from brussels leads to serious problems in the bulgarian economy and directly affects thousands of people. i am therefore pleased that an agreement has been reached in a timely manner which will finally allow member states, including bulgaria, to benefit from the new funds under the multiannual financial framework, which in turn will lead to economic recovery. the adoption of the budget will also help to speed up the recovery of the regions affected by floods this year. the funds released by the solidarity fund, while insufficient to cover all the damage from the floods, are long-awaited aid that must now be used for its intended purpose. i would also like to call once again for more investment in natural disaster prevention, which will reduce the need to activate the solidarity fund. i hope that next year's budgetary approval process will be smoother, because in the end the funds are important for the development of all member states, not just bulgaria.
mr president, four years is a good time to analyse the strategy and to answer the question 'what needs to change to make the union's security even more effective?' we are fully aware that we are facing new, even greater challenges and dangers and they require, commissioner, not just a framework and ideas, but more concrete proposals and measures. i will focus on two problems: the first is the fight against crime and corruption. in 2016, the european commission is due to present a second report on the fight against corruption, but this is by no means enough. the next step is to make a package of legislative directives, regulations to maximise the harmonisation and convergence of criminal law in the member states. crime is cross-border tax evasion, conflict of interest, misuse of euro funds and takes advantage of differences in national legislation to evade justice. the second problem is the security of the external borders. over the past four years, new dangers have emerged. who could have foreseen in 2010 the huge waves of refugees, the attempts of terrorists to take advantage of the illegal channels, the plunderers, the foreign fighters? if 13 years ago the proposal for a european border police was merely a matter of study, today its creation is mandatory. the countries on the external borders cannot manage on their own and you know this well, coming from greece. more than 1,300 police officers in bulgaria guard the border with turkey around the clock and it costs our country more than 700,000 euros a month. the border police and the new frontex and its increased powers are only part of the emergency measures.
mr president, mr president of the council, commissioner, mr president of the council, colleagues, i have read in detail the findings of the report on the implementation of the internal security strategy of the european union 2010-2014 and i believe that the assessment cannot be only positive. i'll make some recommendations that will make the report more objective and improve the work for the future. it is a strengthening of national cooperation in the fight against drug trafficking. in addition to drug trafficking, it should be noted that trafficking in human beings for the purpose of begging, prostitution, pickpocketing and the like is high-risk and intensive. these issues are out there and they need to be addressed. there is also the issue of illegal migration, with countries on the southern border being greatly concerned by the large number of illegal immigrants. of particular concern, of course, is the cooperation of islamic fundamentalism with criminal elements, especially in the western balkans, which would pose a serious threat to the security of the european union and its citizens.
i supported the effort to support moldova at this point because i think it's key. it is only fair to help this country, especially when the benefits will far outweigh any temporary inconvenience. as the committee on agriculture and rural development has assessed that there would be no significant negative impact on any of the member states, supporting moldova is also a matter of political responsibility. looking at the figures, we can see that these are imports of minimal quantities of agricultural products that would not affect the common european market. on the other hand, by allowing duty-free import of these agricultural products, we will help small and medium-sized producers in moldova who are suffering from the effects of the embargo imposed on the country. the financial impact on the duty revenue would also be negligible. moreover, support for moldova is a clear signal that we are not abandoning our friends and those we consider important. as a representative of bulgaria, i also consider this gesture to the bulgarian communities in moldova, who can see that bulgaria and bulgarian representatives have not forgotten them and have not abandoned them. i think that by voting for the report we are showing solidarity and the intention to move in the right direction, namely moldova's accession to the european union.
in writing. although i supported the report on the granting of aid from the solidarity fund to overcome the damage caused by the floods in bulgaria, i believe that once again an injustice is being committed against bulgaria. this injustice, of course, also applies to the other smaller and poorer countries in the union. the whole mechanism of the solidarity fund is flawed. it serves the interests of the rich and harms the poor member states. the formula used to calculate the compensation is incorrect. she may be very good at accounting, but she's unfair. bulgaria shall be granted eur 10,6 million for losses of eur 311 million. and the damage is predominantly in underdeveloped regions. it'll be decades before they're over. i take this opportunity to call on both the commission and parliament to amend the legal framework under which the solidarity fund operates in order to correct these injustices in the future. the citizens of the member states need to see real solidarity in such cases. this is not solidarity. i dare say that i express the opinion of the majority of bulgarian citizens on this issue. we're not second-hand people.
as a result of the floods that occurred in bulgaria in 2014, many towns and villages experienced devastating disasters, dozens of victims were given. in many settlements, all infrastructure and communications have been cut off, and tens of thousands of citizens are yet to rebuild their homes. driven by the understanding that we, as representatives of the institutions, have a number of tasks ahead of us until the full restoration of normal life in the affected areas, from the first days i contacted the local authorities for the real dimensions of the damage suffered. i received official information from over a hundred municipalities in the 13 affected regions of bulgaria, which i passed on to the central authorities. the compensation claims from the solidarity fund were worked on by two bulgarian governments, and the funds received will help restore the public infrastructure of the affected regions, where more than three million and three hundred thousand of my compatriots live.
i supported the report on budgetary adjustments in connection with the mobilisation of the solidarity fund, but i consider that the financial assistance granted to bulgaria is extremely insufficient. it is completely unfair that a member state with proven losses of more than eur 311 million should receive only eur 10,6 million. i urge that the current mechanism of the solidarity fund be re-examined and changed so that it is more useful and does what it was created to do. does anyone in this room think it's fair that one of the most affected countries in the european union, namely bulgaria, should receive six times less financial aid from our neighbour, the republic of serbia, which is not even a member of the european union, but will receive 60 million euros in compensation? on 9 december, i also raised this issue with the european commission. i would like to point out that this mechanism, instead of helping, clearly discriminates against the more affected and poorer countries, which unfortunately is bulgaria at the moment. does anyone really think that 10.6 million euros will repair damage of more than 300 million? and this, again, is one of the hardest hit regions, the north-west, which is also the poorest in europe. i say again, the mechanism needs to change, because it harms the poorer countries, depriving them of adequate aid and leaving them practically to fend for themselves. this is not solidarity.
in writing. in the past year, a number of european countries, including bulgaria, have been hit by natural disasters, which have caused billions of euros in damage and claimed dozens of lives. the floods that inundated varna, dobrich, veliko tarnovo, gabrovo, burgas, montana and many other settlements in bulgaria, according to the estimates of the bulgarian authorities, caused damage of more than 300 million euros, or over 0.8% of the country's gdp. as the representative of one of the countries concerned, i am pleased that my decision to mobilise the european solidarity fund to provide financial assistance to the countries concerned has the european union has shown that solidarity, as one of the fundamental and inherent european values, is not just a good wish written into the treaties. in the coming months, bulgaria will receive €10 542 100 from the eu solidarity fund. although small as a percentage of the total damage, the funds will be used for emergency reconstruction activities. with its vote today, the european parliament has shown that in times of difficulty and crisis, member states can reach out to each other and show support in times of need. i am convinced that solidarity and joint efforts are the driving force of our continent!
in writing. i voted against the european parliament's proposal on the topic 'evaluation of the good repute of carriers' for a complex of reasons. first of all, i think there are issues that precede the resolution of the reputation problem. i would point out that there is still unequal treatment of carriers and a breach of the rules and good practices of competition. there are still member states which artificially create severe obstacles to the activity of small carriers, and others which restrict carriers from other member states. the issue of dumping by non-union carriers is also not resolved. these are priorities for me, and we can't work backwards. i cannot agree with the thesis of some colleagues about so-called 'social dumping' by carriers from member states such as bulgaria. it's just not true. the statistics prove it. in bulgaria, the average salary in the transport sector is around and above the national average. so there is no 'social dumping'. on the question of cabotage, it is necessary and i do not see why we should interfere in the regime and change something that works and is useful. good for workers, good for businesses, good for nature, good for the idea of free movement.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it is primarily intended to initiate a reflection on migration issues in the light of the tragedies that occur every day in the mediterranean and which we continue to deplore. the status quo is no longer acceptable and the current events show the urgency of developing a holistic approach that includes all aspects of migration. the reinforcement of border controls and rescue operations at sea must be coupled with increased cooperation with third states of transit and origin, more effective implementation of the common european asylum system and the establishment of legal migration channels. the resolution also urges member states to impose sanctions on human trafficking and the illicit trafficking of migrants, which is too often neglected. finally, it is essential to strengthen solidarity and ensure a better sharing of responsibilities between member states in order to define a genuine common migration policy.
in writing. today, a european parliament resolution on the recognition of the palestinian statehood was adopted by 498 votes in favour. in this important context, the text voted on should be seen as a starting point in the process of ending the turbulent relations between israel and palestine, and not as the final phase of negotiations that have lasted for more than 60 years, the last step of which would be the recognition of the state of palestine. the most important conditions to be met are the warming of relations between the two countries, the development of more dynamic peace negotiations between them and their mutual recognition. my commitment as bulgaria's representative in the ep is to work for the defence of a clear and stable parliamentary position. therefore, my decision and that of my parliamentary group is motivated by concern about the growing tensions and the increased violence in the region. the declaration also decided to launch the 'parliamentarians for peace' initiative, which brings together members of the european, israeli and palestinian parliaments and plays a facilitating role in implementing a peace programme and complementing eu diplomatic efforts. i strongly believe that with the help of both sides we can make the right decisions and implement timely actions without rushing the final outcome.
in writing. due to the difficult economic situation, steel and its related industries have lost their leading position in european economies. it is a key sector with its own specific economic and social dimensions. i believe that the draft resolution we have tabled does not, however, meet the high intensity of the recommendations with which we must protect and support this sector. it is appropriate in the medium and long term to propose and implement measures to support the presence of the sector on the world market. we need to support the steel industry with measures to make it globally competitive. the commission and parliament must consider, propose and introduce measures to protect european steel producers from dumped imports. it is necessary to propose and implement actions to limit the effect of competition by weakly or poorly regulated non-european producers that do not apply the high production criteria adopted by the commission. for these reasons, and because i did not see enough concrete and comprehensive ways of putting them on the agenda, i voted against the motion for a resolution. i believe that the proposed project does not meet the real needs of the sector and needs to be specified. moreover, it is imperative that we see real measures on the table.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen,the economic recovery from the prolonged crisis depends on a strong manufacturing industry, where steel plays a key role. i therefore welcome all the measures that are being taken to put an end to the crisis of closures and the relocation of steel companies outside europe and the inevitable loss of thousands of jobs. it is in our common interest to preserve steel production by preventing technological know-how from being exported outside the european union. i call on the european commission to take urgent measures to address the economic and social consequences of the problems in the steel industry and to propose adequate initiatives to revive its competitiveness. such measures may include a review of competition rules or aim at reducing energy costs in energy-intensive industries. for example, the accelerated completion of the internal energy market would ensure competitive energy prices. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights (fra) to be set up in the member states. last but not least, i believe that sound investment in research and innovation, adequately funded by european funds and programmes, is also important for the recovery of the steel industry.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen,i supported the resolution because the situation in the mediterranean, caused by the enormous migratory pressure, is extremely worrying and difficult. the so-called arab spring, funded and orchestrated by global oil lobbies and intelligence agencies, has brought down states and ignited civil wars in syria, iraq, egypt and libya, giving a wide-ranging space to the extreme islamic extremists of isis. this terrorist organisation, funded and organised by qatar, saudi arabia and turkey, has carried out terrorist acts against christians, kurds, yazidis, shiites and other religious and ethnic communities who have lived peacefully for thousands of years in these territories. this unprecedented medieval terror forced hundreds of thousands of people to seek safety in emigration. apart from this, poverty, crime, lack of prospects, social breakdown and, above all, the 'european welfare' delusion, are pushing hundreds of thousands of people from africa to the eu's borders. the eu's border states are facing a tsunami of refugees and illegal migrants. the pressure on these borders is growing exponentially. there are days when the bulgarian border is illegally crossed by hundreds of illegal migrants transferred from the turkish state, in a blatant violation of all international rules and agreements. the bulgarian state cannot bear this organizational and social burden. i call for real, real european solidarity on this issue.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it shows our strong commitment and willingness to actively participate in the commission's work on the renewal of the internal security strategy. this resolution emphasizes full respect for the charter of fundamental rights. while the safety of all people living in the union is a priority, it cannot be ensured at the expense of their most fundamental rights. we also stress in this resolution the importance of identifying and combating new threats, including trafficking in human beings, for which a global and integrated approach is needed. finally, we recall the need to ensure coherence between the internal and external dimensions of security, which are inextricably linked, and synergy between the various instruments at our disposal, particularly in the field of justice and home affairs and the common foreign and security policy.
it is certainly outrageous that the us administration's report on its abductions, interrogations, torture and other human rights violations reveals these facts and circumstances. they show the following, they show that the country that most claims to protect the rights of its citizens and human rights in general around the world, actually systematically and consistently violates them. and one thing should be clear here - it is impossible and there is no way that a simple excuse can justify these actions. that would mean that any mass murderer would want to be exonerated when they apologized. the united states owes the world and society a serious investigation and a criminal prosecution of those responsible for these violations of human rights, violations of international law, of all legal norms.
for anyone who cares about turkey, what has happened in the last few days is not a surprise. the practice of violating human rights, of imprisoning journalists, of depriving the journalistic community of freedom of speech is an old practice of the regime of recep tayyip erdoğan, davutoglu and their entire government. i'll just remind you that erdogan's party is neo-ottoman, fighting to restore the ottoman empire, initially within its economic and possibly political borders. there was a lot of talk here about how turkey is still occupying cyprus, how it supports hamas in palestine, how it supports isis against the kurds in the civil war in syria and the civil war in iraq. from the regime of erdoğan, from the regime of davutoglu, one can only expect a violation of freedom of speech, deprivation of rights and freedoms. these are not democratic regimes, and if we want to defend the values of the european union as we claim they are we should talk about and really think about sanctions for this behaviour of turkey.
i will continue with the thought of my colleague marias and tell you the following. i've heard in the room before how migration is a good thing and it should be supported and encouraged. but let's be honest -- for us, for the countries that border this problem, for bulgaria, for greece, for spain, for italy -- migration is more of a problem than a solution. our countries are slowly turning into a kind of refugee camps, territories in which there are a lot of people who cannot find work, who are different culturally, different in their way of being registered. this is a big problem for us, and when we talk about migration, we have to be mindful of the following: where is the cause of this migration, and it has to be looked for where these people are coming from. and here comes the next question, the question of who is behind these dictators, the question of who is destroying countries, who is destroying libya, who is destroying egypt, who is destroying all these countries, somalia, who is the cause of all these processes happening? that's where the solution should be, not in turning europe into a big refugee camp, because africa's population is over a billion.
in writing. i welcome the european parliament's resolution approving the conclusion of the eu-georgia association agreement as it symbolises progress in its relations with the union. the implementation of the agreement as soon as possible is crucial for the country's political and economic progress. the efforts of the georgian authorities to implement democratic reforms, including in the judiciary, should be noted, which shows that they are among the priorities of both the eu and the georgian authorities. i support the fact that in its resolution the european parliament stresses the importance of anti-discrimination legislation in ensuring equal rights and protection for minorities, including ethnic minorities. as a bulgarian representative, i am obliged to draw attention to the fact that in georgia there is a traditional bulgarian minority dating back to the second half of the 19th century, whose representatives in the past were treated as people of "unreliable origin" and were even sent into exile. i believe this agreement will provide a basis for guaranteeing their rights.
in writing. i supported the recommendation for a draft council decision on the conclusion of the eu-ec association agreement on nuclear energy and their member states and georgia, as i agree with the arguments put forward by the rapporteur that this agreement is one of the most ambitious in the field of free trade. the aim of establishing this comprehensive and deep area is to facilitate georgia's access to one of the strongest economies in the world, in exchange for concrete commitments and legislation, and to enhance common values. i believe that the association agreement will have a positive effect on the country's reforms and will contribute to its pro-european development. for these reasons, i welcome the decision of this parliament to support its conclusion.
