mr president, until three days ago, protesting recognised refugees were on a 50-day hunger strike and in recent days a thirst strike outside the ministry of the interior of cyprus to convince the authorities to deal with their case as quickly as possible. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the cypriot authorities are able to provide the necessary information to the authorities of the member states in order to enable them to assess the situation. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. because the reality is that, while we have a plethora of international treaties and laws, in practice - we know this very well - that rights are not respected and that every possible obstacle is used to prevent these people from being granted permanent residence and more rights. and as long as the sickening conditions of poverty do not change, we will be in the same vicious circle.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the new consumer programme for 2014-2020 proposed by the commission identified the main problems to be addressed by funding the various actions. the main objective of the new regulation was to put the empowered consumer at the heart of the single market in order to ensure that citizens of the european union can reap the full benefits of the single market, ultimately leading to sustainable growth. the regulation initially contained a number of positive elements regarding consumer rights, in particular in terms of best practices, transparency in online transactions, vulnerable consumers and remedies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it also does not contain any proposals to deal with the situation. it is based on market liberalisation and even more competition and it ignores the fact that these policies have led to higher prices, lower quality and fewer social services. it insists, in effect, on fully aligning the objectives of growth with increasing competitiveness, which means that it ignores the need to protect consumers from the consequences of competitiveness.
madam president, mr prime minister, you have important open european challenges to face if the european union is to move forward. the first is the limitation, the control of the troika and accountability. their decisions lack legal and political legitimacy. they have led people into poverty. they have to take responsibility. another development measure, another strangulation of the people. in your country, suicides have increased by 46%. in my country, people go to bed a housewife and wake up a poor woman. secondly, the treatment of illegal immigration as a european issue. it is not a problem of the south, of italy, of greece, of malta, of cyprus. the european union must take initiatives, take decisions, and have a single european policy. thirdly, the european union must stop operating at different speeds, which widen the gap between north and south. solidarity must be a precondition for european policy. the european council in madrid in december last year stressed the need to strengthen the european union's external relations and to strengthen its relations with the countries of central and eastern europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. fourthly, take the initiative, convince the european leaders that austerity is fuelling recession, unemployment. i would remind you that today in the european union we have 33 million unemployed, 25% of the population is below the poverty line, and tax evasion and avoidance amounts to over one trillion euros. we want a different europe with investment, growth, reduction of unemployment, return to the social economy. above the numbers and the banks are the people. and the fifth challenge is to finally clarify one issue: that as long as turkey is angry with the media, imprisons intellectuals and journalists, violently suppresses popular mobilizations, does not recognize the republic of cyprus and threatens the european union, its path towards the european union will not be unhindered. chapters 23 and 24 must not be opened. the european path will not be paved with rose petals. europe must prove that it can, that it has a voice, that it is in charge. i wish you good luck.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the so-called success model of the western balkans has in practice proved to be in fact another failure of the international community to make a positive impact, to offer real prospects for development and progress. how can we today believe that austerity policies, analogous to those that have failed in countries with less political problems and greater social stability, that have not been affected by catastrophic conflicts in their very recent past, can offer the citizens of the western balkan countries, without further exacerbating the already high unemployment, the poverty, the increase in class inequalities and social destabilization, because these are what are achieved through privatization, through the subjugation of education to the needs and competitions of the market and private interest. in addition, i can only comment on the fraudulent use of the recent pristina-belgrade agreements to convince the international community that they amount to a tacit recognition of kosovo by serbia, while clearly dealing with issues of normalisation and improvement of everyday life, and the fact that serbia's accession process is being used provocatively as a means of recognising kosovo. in a truly progressive europe, respect for international law, and in particular the sovereignty and territorial integrity of states, should be non-negotiable, and because what is declared is not observed in practice, we cannot support the two reports on serbia and the european integration of kosovo.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the syrian people are living through a tragedy that must be ended. we condemn the foreign interventions, which, as is proven every day, have nothing to do with the aspirations and expectations of the syrian people for political and democratic changes, nor were they ever intended to support them. we support, and call on all un member states to support, the effort to find a political solution through the geneva ii conference that ensures the unity, territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of syria. the alleged foreign fighters must leave the country immediately and the european union must reinstate the ban on arms shipments to syria. the negotiations will be a long and difficult process. the inclusion of political forces and representation of all the communities in the country should be sought, so that the people of syria can decide and manage their own future. as a first step, we call for an immediate ceasefire and safe access for humanitarian aid, particularly in besieged areas. we cannot have palestinian refugees in yarmouk and elsewhere starving and dying a second time.
mr president, unfortunately the statistics speak for themselves. since march 2011 we have 136,000 dead, 2,350,000 refugees, two million who have left school, 4,000 schools have been destroyed. finding: absence of the united nations and the security council. the european union is unable to intervene effectively. position of the vehicle: until we have a real intervention, a foreign policy of defence and security, then the war will just continue, the deaths will increase, the refugees will increase, the christians will be persecuted and we will express our regret and pass resolutions. but the dead don't come back. now is the time to help the syrian people decide who will rule them. with determination and efficiency. a little talk, a lot of action! this is the time!
member of the commission. - mr president, if a talented student from india or a senior researcher from the us, or any other country outside the eu, wants to come to the european union today, he or she has to do so on the basis of outdated rules that are more than ten years old. under these rules, an applicant does not even know how long it will take him or her to get a decision on an application for a permit. an applicant may fulfil the criteria to get a permit, and even receive funding through erasmus or marie curie, but not get an entry visa, or a successful applicant may be able to study in only one country and find it difficult to get to other member states to carry out part of his or her studies there. this is not how we should treat people who can make important contributions to our innovative capacity, competitiveness, economy and society as a whole. this is also not in line with our ambition to increase possibilities for cultural exchanges, learning and people-to-people contact. but for volunteers, school pupils and remunerated trainees, there are only optional rules at eu level and this is the fragmentation of different approaches. for remunerated trainees and au pairs there are no eu rules at all, although they could benefit considerably from the more transparent and protective sets of rules on their mission and stay here. this is why, a year ago, we proposed an overhaul of the eu immigration rules for these groups. our proposal is ambitious and i want it to remain ambitious. for the moment, the eu accounts for the largest share of internationally mobile students – we can be proud of this – but it is in decline. there is growing international competition and we can no longer rely on automatically attracting the brightest. in order to remain an attractive and credible choice for talent, we have to make sure that our immigration rules are up to date. that was the main rationale for the commission proposal and i would like to thank the rapporteur, cecilia wikström, and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, which has given us its full support, as well as the rapporteurs of the committee on employment and social affairs and the committee on legal affairs. mrs papadopoulou and mr stoyanov have provided the civil liberties committee with very important contributions and we would like to thank them as well. the civil liberties committee has not only given the commission proposal its full support but has gone a step further. let me mention a few of the most important amendments. regarding equal treatment, yes, it is a good idea to tighten up the proposal in order to make sure that equal treatment rights apply not only to those holding a permit, but also those who have a long-term visa. it also makes sense that students can benefit from the same equal treatment provisions as researchers, in conjunction with family reunification provisions for students’ family members. some member states already offer family reunification possibilities and i would like to support this being extended across the eu. the same goes for extending intra-eu mobility provisions for unremunerated trainees and volunteers. learning and volunteering should not be limited to one member state so we should indeed open up possibilities for these groups to move to other member states. i also support extending this possibility to job-seeking and the setting-up of businesses for students who finish their studies and researchers who finish their research. let me recall that our proposal makes it clear that this does not amount to a right to enter the labour market. it is up to the member states to decide. furthermore, i support the proposal to shorten the time limits for national authorities to decide on applications and appeals. given that most groups concerned will only stay in the eu for short periods, 30 days should indeed be sufficient to come back with a decision. there is only one area where i would like to sound a note of caution. this concerns the so-called more favourable conditions. we are not against this at all –in the area of equal treatment rights, for instance – but, at the same time if the list of articles for which member states can have a more favourable provision becomes too long, it risks ending up in a fragmented approach. for the sake of transparency and clarity, we should have as many rules in common between the member states as possible, ideally with the common rules moving to a higher level of ambition. ambition has been the principle that has guided the commission in the negotiations. we have made ambitious proposals and i am very pleased to see that the civil liberties committee has not only fully subscribed to this, but has even taken it a step further in some areas. this is incentive enough for us to defend our level of ambition and i would like to thank you for that. let us make sure that the eu stays an attractive place for young and talented third-country nationals. let us make sure that, while having in place safeguards to avoid misuse, we offer fair admission conditions. let us make sure that the rights of the relevant groups are, as far as possible, in alignment with those of eu citizens. the civil liberties committee report has confirmed that our reports make the right adjustments to the current rules. it clarifies the rules, it improves the conditions for entry and length of stay and makes us ready to face international competition. the discussions in the council have not yet led to a common position between member states. we will, of course, do our utmost in the commission to advance negotiations in the council and maintain a high level of ambition. i very much hope that the institutions will be able to conclude a decision on this very important directive this autumn.
the committee on employment and social affairs has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council directive on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions. - commissioner, i welcome the commission's reworded proposal and i fully understand the complexity of creating a coherent legal framework covering researchers, students, students, unpaid trainees and volunteers from third countries coming to the european union, including paid trainees and internal paid assistants for whom there is as yet no legally acceptable common regulation. despite the complexity, we have sought to address the existing risks of exploitation, unequal treatment and unfair competition by strengthening the proposal on social rights, minimum wages, collective agreements, student access to the labour market and by creating a harmonised specific scheme for internal unpaid assistants. the regulatory framework we finally have before us protects legal immigration and employment in the european union, which will certainly help the european union to attract highly skilled skilled manpower, meeting the urgent need for innovation and boosting competitiveness. i am sorry that some of our amendments, which would have improved the text even further, were not incorporated.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one. we particularly welcome the inclusion of new categories in the scope of this directive, the conversion of some optional provisions into mandatory ones, the extension of the time during which one can stay in the european union to seek work, the simplification of mobility within the european union, and the improvements that clarify and facilitate procedures. however, the report does not go as far as it should, and does not refute the philosophy of tackling migration, either in terms of security and possible abuse of rights by migrants, or in terms of improving the competitiveness of the european union or filling demographic gaps. it is also another example of the fragmentation of immigration legislation which is moving us further and further away from its purpose of establishing a single framework without discrimination and with a high level of protection of rights. we have a lot of different legislation with sub-categories that create confusion, ground for exploitation, and undermine the principle of equal treatment. it is very important that we stop looking at migrants with suspicion and as mere variables of the economic needs of the european union, but that we dare to equalise them in practice and not just in words, and for this we need to take further substantive steps.
madam president, a european voluntary humanitarian aid corps was first proposed by the commission in 2012 to express the eu’s humanitarian values and solidarity with people facing humanitarian crises and man-made disasters in third countries. the increased number of humanitarian crises and today’s financial constraints encouraged the commission to propose the eu aid corps to complement the existing structures and organisations, aiming to avoid duplications. we welcome the new approach because it sets standards for the identification, selection, training and deployment of volunteers in partnership with specialised institutions, and also because it introduces interim evaluations of the effectiveness of eu aid volunteers on the basis of specific indicators. personally, i support the establishment of both qualitative as well as quantitative indicators for accessing each operational objective. i congratulate you on the proposal.
in writing. - at the moment, four member states (greece, cyprus, ireland and portugal) are subject to severe budgetary constraints. these constraints cause liquidity problems resulting from the necessary fiscal consolidation, that hamper the implementation of operational programmes. as a consequence, investment capacity in both the public and the private sector is limited, thus hindering further utilisation of available funding for growth and competitiveness. there is, therefore, an urgent need to ensure that in the aforementioned member states, appropriate mechanisms and non-bureaucratic procedures are set in place, so as to facilitate the efficient management of european union funds; to leverage and speed up investment; as well as to boost projects essential for their socio-economic recovery and sectoral development. extending the application of the 10% top-up on co-financing rates until the end of the programme and the final application for payment, provides a simple, transparent, and flexible measure to facilitate both the payment of support as well as the development of projects that are crucial for economic growth and job creation.
in writing. - by reducing the co2 emissions for passenger cars, the eu shows its strong commitment to improving fuel economy as well as saving the environment, by emitting less harmful gases into the atmosphere. it is important to increase awareness among european citizens in order to reduce their dependency on fossil fuels. the eu target for car emissions by the year 2020 is very ambitious, as it aims to reduce co2 levels to 95g/km per passenger car, which means an outstanding reduction of current emissions by approximately 60%. such reduction levels will certainly force car manufacturers to develop new propulsion methods, specified as eco-innovative, by incorporating new kinds of technologies. this will eventually lead to new pioneer industries in the near future, enabling member states to diversify from traditional industries. by amending and incorporating the new european drive cycle (nedc) into union law as the examination procedure, it will thus be easier to testing the co2 efficiency of the new cars entering the european market.
in writing. - the eu legal framework on trademarks embraces the partnering of national laws with the trademark regulations. this implies that order will be guaranteed both at national levels and in the european union. businesses may apply either for an eu-wide trademark or for a national trademark. nevertheless the trademark reforms that currently occur in the eu member states create massive breaches in intellectual property, hence measures need to be adopted in order to protect eu citizens and eu businesses from counterfeit goods. the main concern concentrates on the legal framework that needs to be adapted in order to avoid breaches in sensitive areas such as the health and safety sector and their products and by-products. the legal framework needs to safeguard and protect consumer rights and their protection against counterfeit goods.
in writing. - this directive lays down rules for member states with regard to the freezing and confiscating of criminal assets, whether through direct confiscation, value or extended confiscation, non-conviction-based confiscation or third-party confiscation. it also gives suggestions for general principles for managing the removal of confiscated property. through these rules, freezing and confiscation regimes will be harmonised, and mutual trust and effective cross-border cooperation will improve. furthermore, mutual recognition of freezing and confiscation orders will be strengthened, thus empowering the fight against organised cross-border crime in the eu. further reinforcement of the provisions of extended and non-conviction-based confiscation will stop the proceeds of crime being used to commit future crimes or even direct them towards reinvestment into lawful activities.
in writing. the commission's reformulated proposal, despite its complexity, provides a coherent legal framework governing researchers, students, trainees, unpaid trainees and volunteers from third countries coming to the eu, including the salaries of trainees and internal paid assistants for which there is as yet no legally acceptable common regulation. the objectives are to tackle the existing risks of exploitation, unequal treatment and unfair competition by strengthening the proposal on social rights, minimum wages, collective agreements, student access to the labour market and the creation of a harmonised special scheme for paid in-house assistants, and to create a regulatory framework to protect legal immigration and employment in the eu. all of this is expected to help the eu attract well-trained, highly skilled human resources, meeting its own 'urgent need' for innovation and boosting competitiveness. i voted in favour of the proposal, although as draftsman of the opinion of the committee on employment i regret that a number of additional amendments which would have further improved the report have not been incorporated into it.
in writing. - a european voluntary humanitarian aid corps has already been proposed by the commission since 2012, aiming to express the union’s humanitarian values and solidarity to people facing humanitarian crises and man-made disasters in third countries. taking into consideration the increased number of humanitarian crises and today’s financial constraints, the commission proposed the eu aid corps to complement existing structures and organisations, aiming to avoid duplications. i voted in favour of this report because: a) it sets standards for the identification, selection, training and deployment of volunteers in partnership with specialised institutions; b) moreover it proposes interim evaluations of the effectiveness of eu aid volunteers on the basis of specific indicators. it is my belief that establishing both qualitative as well as quantitative indicators for accessing each operational objective will be a very useful tool for the future. in addition it is essential to ensure the european character of the programme, to raise visibility levels among union’s citizens and to further develop solidarity among union’s citizens and victims of crises in third countries.
in writing. - in 2012 a quarter of europeans were at risk of poverty or social exclusion. therefore, the fund aims to alleviate the most severe forms of poverty by providing non-financial assistance in the form of food and material to the most disadvantaged people. this fund replaces the european food aid programme, but it has a much wider scope. even though the major resources of aid will be food, member states can choose to distribute basic material assistance or help through other means such as social inclusion activities or helping with the accommodation for the homeless. as the eu is living at times where needs are increasing daily, the fead will help the most deprived, thus contributing towards fulfilling the aim of the europe 2020 strategy, to reduce the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion.
in writing. - the biocidal products regulation was adopted on 22[nbsp ]may 2012 and represented a significant and substantial revision of the existing legislation governing biocidal products. harmonisation of rules on the making, the availability and the use of biocidal products was essential to provide a high level of protection for both human and animal health and the environment. moreover the regulation combined a high level of health and environmental protection, and clear rules for manufacturers to promote competitiveness and innovation. however since its adoption, the commission has identified a number of technical errors which led to unintended consequences and the member states asked for further clarifications and corrections. therefore the commission presented and adopted this amending proposal which puts in place appropriate corrections and clarifications aiming for more legal clarity and certainty for member states, the industry and the general public. i voted in favour.
in writing. - violence against women is a major hindrance to gender equality and an outrageous human rights violation. it knows no geographical, financial, cultural or social boundaries. i voted in favour of this report, as it conveys an important political message: violence against women is never acceptable, never excusable, never tolerable. moreover, it calls on the commission to put aside its constant unwillingness, and provide an appropriate directive to combat gender-based violence in such a way as to coordinate the many different national legislations within the eu for protection of women and girls against all forms of violence. the present legislative initiative report, that consists of a resolution and an annex with a legislative demand, asks for better coordination of the eu strategy for combating violence, and improved practical ways for protecting victims, preventing violence and prosecuting aggressors. not only does it underline the indispensable need for an eu directive to be implemented by all member states but it proceeds a step further: asking for national rapporteurs and equivalent mechanisms, the establishment of financial support within the union budget for equality mechanisms, exchange of information and reporting of best practices, better collection of statistical data and the creation of a social forum. all these recommendations, if implemented, will indeed make a difference!
in writing. - as pointed out by the most recent independent annual growth survey 2014, economic growth is not back yet, and as a result, europe is in danger of stagnation and deflation. there is a need for a change in the economic strategy in order to ensure that the focus is not only on fiscal consolidation but also on growth and employment-friendly policies. we have to ensure that all member states take part in management of the crisis, and not just the countries facing financial difficulties. to repair the damage caused by the coordinated austerity policies in the past few years, we need to create an eu funding mechanism that will serve as an incentive for more convergence in the eu.
in writing. - strengthening the role and the position of parliament in the formulation of economic priorities and the overall european semester process is very important in order to secure democratic scrutiny of the economic policy guidance, put more emphasis on the need to tackle the social consequences of the economic crisis and provide sustainable and inclusive growth solutions that would promote quality employment and raise social standards in line with the europe 2020 strategy and the eu’s priorities. i voted in favour believing that we need an alternative europe which is more caring and supportive of the needs of the 500 million eu citizens.
in writing. - plant breeding is significantly important for productivity, diversity, health, quality of agriculture, food production and the environment. as the population of the world increases so does the demand on agriculture’s productivity, quality and yields. it is vital therefore, to have an effective and competitive plant-breeding sector capable of responding and adapting to present and future challenges and demands, and environmental and climatic changes. this report aims to ensure that the eu is prepared to respond effectively by taking suitable measures; by allocating sufficient financial resources for preserving biological and genetic diversity; and by facilitating the development of new crops through conventional or plant-breeding techniques. it is crucial to fund the horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation and to ensure easy access by all (including small operators) to the results of research. i voted in favour.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, in switzerland a decision has been taken which differs little from the declared intentions of other countries to restrict the employment of foreign nationals in their countries. this is a clear discrimination against migrant workers. foreign workers are used, mainly by large enterprises, as cheap labour, with the result that labour rights are reduced. the rights of workers must be fully respected under collective agreements. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the situation in the member states and to provide information on the situation in the community. this is a practice of some far-right to fascist organisations and, in a way, the european union itself, when it puts the free movement of capital across the union as its first priority and only as a secondary condition or as a prerequisite at all the rights of workers. we warn that these two tendencies are giving rise to fascism and racism. the approach to these two issues: immigration and workers, must be radically changed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of unemployment. retaliation is not the answer: the european union has a long-standing commitment to the development of a european social model, which is based on the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. - the governance of the single market is an issue of structural importance and has been placed on top of the european political agenda. in order to strengthen single market governance, we need to establish, as a specific pillar of the eu semester, an annual single market governance cycle. the single market pillar should cover a clear set of priorities related to the real economy and key growth areas. this is essential in order to stimulate growth and bridge the present gap preventing us from reaching the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy while exploiting the full single market potential. a coordinated and efficient single market governance cycle will boost growth and jobs and ensure economic convergence between member states inside and outside the euro area, in core and peripheral areas of the eu.
in writing. - despite the fact that, in the last decade, three ‘railway packages’ have aimed to progressively open up national markets and make railways more competitive and interoperable, the modal share of rail in intra-eu transport has remained modest and many technical barriers continue to exist. the fourth railway package aims to target the obstacles that limit the effectiveness of railway markets in order to improve the sector's performance and to create a single european railway area. the proposition sets up the rules of market opening for passenger rail transport services. however, the liberalization of the market should not be seen as a goal in itself, but as a useful tool to create a more competitive sector with high quality services. therefore, market opening needs to be accompanied by stringent rules on passenger's rights as regards travel information and ticketing as well as by strengthened social rules for railway workers.
in writing. - passenger traffic by rail, accounts for approximately 7% of total passenger traffic in the european union. this percentage could be increased. investment in these sustainable modes of transport will benefit the environment and the economy and will promote growth and employment. the target set, to increase the number of public transport users, however, can only be achieved if rail passenger transport across europe becomes more proficient. it is therefore crucial to increase efficiency in rail passenger transport by establishing multimodal and sustainable urban transport plans that will take into account quality and safety standards, passenger rights, social and employment conditions, accessibility for persons with disabilities, transport efficiency criteria, social tariffs, policy and environmental objectives. i voted in favour.
in writing. - more than 8 billion journeys a year are made by rail in europe, and 10 % of goods are transported by rail freight. the sector is responsible for a turnover of eur 73 billion, generating eur 13 billion of revenue and supporting 800 000 jobs. however, with more than 11 000 different national rules in terms of safety and interoperability, the european railways system is neither efficient nor transparent. this lack of harmonisation means that a manufacturer applying for authorisation for a railway vehicle may face costs of up to eur 6 million and have to wait up to two years for the procedure to be completed. it is therefore almost impossible for new operators to enter the market in these conditions. the report aims to update interoperability rules to the new needs coming from the opening of the market and the expected growth of rail modal part. the above can be achieved by: • clarifying existing rules • simplifying the long and costly authorisations for rolling stock, energy and infrastructures • ensuring vehicles interoperability on the eu through a european vehicle authorisation to be granted by the european railways agency (era)and • by creating a european register.
in writing. - seven years after its establishment, the european railway agency (era) is now fully operational and plays an important role in harmonising national safety and interoperability requirements as well as in progressively replacing them with common technical specifications and common safety targets and methods. the adopted report would extend the role of era , in line with the directives on interoperability and safety, while also adding new tasks, including promoting standardisation. the agency would also be able to delegate specific tasks to national safety authorities on the basis of contractual agreements. in addition to the above, the report puts forward a number of measures to improve the agency's governance in terms of avoiding conflicts of interest, enhancing the independence of appeal board's evaluation and setting priorities in order to take account available resources.
in writing. - the health for growth programme seems fully aligned with the europe 2020 strategy. it intends on creating eu added value, boost innovation and increase access to better and safer healthcare. furthermore, it will promote good health and prevent disease, but also protect the well-being of europeans from serious cross-border health threats. the programme must address the physical and mental health, health inequalities as well as environmental and lifestyle factors. at the same time it will promote action for early diagnosis, paying special attention to gender and age-related illnesses. through all its actions the programme must reflect in promoting equity and solidarity, gender mainstreaming and anti-discrimination objectives. in addition, it should strengthen its co-operation with member states by sharing its expertise and good practice and encourage a wide geographical coverage of the proposed actions. in the context of the on-going economic crisis, the healthcare sector can be seen not only as making progress in the treatment of patients but also as an area for growth, whereby jobs can be created.
in writing. - the present world experiences an innovative digital age, whereby information and services are increasingly delivered online. it is the aim of this legislative proposal to combat existing obstacles and inequalities and to further develop a more inclusive interest for all, thus developing further the single market. the european parliament has done a tremendous work to introduce significant changes to the commission’s proposal so as to ensure unhindered web accessibility to all eu citizens including people with disabilities without any discrimination. we therefore send a strong signal today and ask the greek presidency to prioritise this dossier. we do need harmonised laws, regulations and administrative provisions in all member states to ensure implementation of web-accessibility not only by all public sector bodies but also by private entities performing public tasks, so as to serve the needs of all citizens, and in particular, to fulfil the requirements laid out in the un convention on rights of persons with disabilities.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i welcome this debate in parliament because it is an important debate. one of my first commitments when i took up my responsibilities was to present an annual report on the application of the eu charter and to have an annual debate every year on the way in which this charter is applied. by this i was responding, de facto, to a request made by this parliament and in particular to the 2007 report of mr[nbsp ]johannes voggenhuber. i am glad to see that today, on the basis of the report prepared by mr[nbsp ]louis michel and the commission’s annual reports, we are able to hold a fully informed discussion. you know that the commission is currently preparing its annual report on the application of the charter covering 2013. it will be published in april. the commission supports the call from parliament to all eu institutions and to the member states to take decisive measures to protect these rights within the eu. well, in fact, the commission has established a fruitful, regular and intensive exchange with this parliament, but not only with this parliament but also with national parliaments and with the member states concerning the improvement of fundamental rights legislation. let me here also stress the work of the fundamental rights agency. we have, over the last years, made substantial use of the expertise of this agency. just let me recall some of the last reports: access to justice, anti-semitism and data protection. we observe that fundamental rights awareness has increased considerably, both as regards citizens and as regards the member states’ authorities. this is evident from the commission’s annual reports and in particular from the numbers of letters, questions and petitions we receive. there is also a promising development regarding references to the charter by national courts and by the court of justice. this is a very new development and it is fundamental because national judges are now increasingly aware of the impact of the charter and they seek guidance from the court on its application and interpretation through questions referred to the court. i see national courts as partners in giving concrete effect to the rights and freedoms enshrined in the charter, as they directly ensure that individuals obtain full redress in cases of non-respect of fundamental rights within the scope of eu law. as you have rightly pointed out in your report, there is room for still further improvement and the commission is in the process of addressing a number of issues. for instance, last year’s revelations on mass surveillance by intelligence services have shown the pressing need for a strong data protection ruling. in this vein i warmly thank parliament for its commitment to advancing our data protection reform. the aim here is to put individuals back in control of their data by updating their rights, in order to fully respect article[nbsp ]8 of the charter. explicit consent, the right to be forgotten, the right to data portability and the right to be informed of personal data breaches are important elements and they will help to close the growing rift between citizens and the companies with which they share their data. furthermore, also on data protection, the commission is negotiating an umbrella agreement with the us. here the aim is to ensure that europeans get a high level of protection and enforceable rights when their personal data is shared between law enforcement authorities in the eu and in the us. i expect to see progress in the negotiations. i was encouraged with the movement shown last november by the attorney general at the eu-us ministerial meeting in washington. i was encouraged by the constructive signals given in president obama’s speech last month, but it will take more than words to rebuild trust. i hope that words will turn into action and that the us will deliver on political commitments and make the necessary changes in the practice and in the law. where the charter is applicable the commission will do everything in its power to check compatibility with and respect of fundamental rights. however, as you know, in areas outside the charter’s applicability it is up to member states to address the problems. the debate about free movement within the eu has put on the agenda the urgent necessity of roma integration across the eu. the commission has assessed progress made in the member states on the five preconditions for a successful implementation of national roma integration strategies. it has also proposed and negotiated a council recommendation that will make a difference when the measures it contains are implemented on the ground. these conclusions have made it possible to formalise the shift of the european and national paradigm towards the local level, where major bottlenecks regarding roma integration are situated. the commission strengthened its dialogue with civil society and with the roma communities themselves. furthermore, as recent research from the fundamental rights agency has shown, the protection of people belonging to minorities, protection against hatred and discrimination, needs to be addressed further across the union. work needs to be done to fight racism, xenophobia, anti-semitism, homophobia and gender discrimination. last month, on holocaust remembrance day – 27[nbsp ]january – the commission adopted a report on the implementation of framework decision 2008/913/jha which aims to combat in particular racist and xenophobic crimes. it requires member states to define as criminal offences public incitement to violence or hatred on grounds of race, colour, religion, descent, or national or ethnic origin. the commission will engage in bilateral dialogues with member states during 2014 to ensure correct transposition of the framework decision into national law. the commission takes into account women’s needs and gender discrimination. one flagship initiative, as you know, concerns the gender balance among non-executive directors of companies listed on the stock exchange. here again, i appreciate the work parliament has done. i expect discussions in the council to advance similarly. we are also concerned by the gender pay gap. the commission has focused its work on the correct application of the equal pay directive and has recently adopted a report on its application. the report provides examples of national best practices on matters such as gender-neutral job evaluation, classification, a summary of equal pay case-law of the court of justice, examples of national case-law on equal pay, as well as a description of the factors that cause the gender pay gap. these measures should help employers, social partners, national authorities and national courts to more effectively apply national law on equal pay. the commission is also planning further initiatives – focusing on increased wage transparency – aiming to facilitate the effective application of the principle of equal pay in practice. as regards trafficking in human beings, i would like to point to the eu strategy in this field, which complements directive 2011/36/eu on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings. last, but certainly not least, i would like to refer here to the need to uphold the rule of law. we have witnessed and we had to deal with very many rule-of-law crises in member states in the past years. the events demonstrated that respect for fundamental values and in particular the value of rule of law cannot always be taken for granted. we need to be sure that we have the tools to show our citizens that we can respond when these values are endangered. to see that all eu institutions are united around the need to uphold the rule of law, and in developing clear and effective initiatives in this field, sends a strong signal. the commission is working on ideas for a rule of law initiative. yesterday the college held an orientation debate on the matter to look at the different angles of this issue. as a result the commission intends to bring its ideas together in a communication to be presented shortly. in this context the suggestions and recommendations in mr[nbsp ]louis michel’s report and in today’s debate will surely provide a valuable source of inspiration.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. - madam president, this report provides a valuable tool for holding eu institutions and member states accountable for the situation of fundamental rights. the present crisis is a challenge for european milestone principles such as solidarity, respect for human rights, equality, non-discrimination and social cohesion. our role as parliamentarians is to scrutinise eu institutions, reveal existing deficits and suggest corrective actions. as the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality i would like to stress the persisting gender discrimination and to call for gender legislation monitoring as well as action to combat violence, pay gaps and exploitation of women. we are glad because the report by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs endorsed several amendments by our women’s rights committee. speaking of violated fundamental rights in the eu one cannot ignore the severe human rights violations by turkey in my own country cyprus. the eu should show zero tolerance when fundamental human rights are violated and this should also apply to cyprus as well. after all, my compatriots are not second-class european citizens.
in writing. - the common european sales law (cesl) intends to create a uniform set of contract rules for cross-border sales agreements, aiming to boost business in the internal market by overcoming existing barriers. the cesl can be seen as a significant law not only for consumers and businesses in the single market resolution, but also for the resolution on integrated parcel delivery market for the growth of e-commerce in the eu. however, this law would be optional. it would apply only for those who choose it, in a cross-border contract for the sale of goods, digital content or related service contracts. even though it would contain a single set of pan-eu rules, which would exist in parallel to member states’ contract laws, it should not be regarded as the ‘29th legal system’ but as a possibility to be chosen in cases of conflict in cross border sales agreements.
in writing. - the european investigation order (eio) is a useful tool to enable one member state to request from another member state to carry out a precise search so as to acquire evidence needed for criminal investigations. the whole process must be carried out with full respect for, and in conformity with, all fundamental rights and with the principle of mutual recognition and cooperation by the appropriate eu institutions and bodies in the member states. the eio will have a much larger scope and application, covering nearly all types of required evidence. however, there will be time constraints for deciding both the recognition and execution of an eio. the basis for refusal will also be limited and clearly defined. i voted in favour.
in writing. - the use of drones is becoming more and more popular in our days, mainly for military uses, but also for commercial and civilian usage too. at the moment, the use of drones is not regarded as illegal. however, their military usage, which spans intelligence gathering, surveillance and reconnaissance as well as precision guided attacks, can create future legal and ethical problems. currently, around 80 countries possess drones and less than 20 of these have drones that can be considered ‘attack ready’. nonetheless, the global trends show that attack drones, and drones in general, are becoming a trend and nations are anxious to buy or develop their own. i do agree that an international dialogue should be established among leading countries on the matter, in order to establish appropriate regulations on the use of armed drones.
in writing. - this report provides a valuable tool, for holding eu institutions and member states accountable for the situation of fundamental rights. the present crisis is a challenge for european milestone principles such as solidarity, respect for human rights, equality, non-discrimination and social cohesion. our role as parliamentarians is to scrutinise eu institutions, reveal existing deficits and suggest corrective action. as the rapporteur for the opinion of the femm committee, i would like to stress there is persisting gender discrimination and to call for gender legislation monitoring as well as action to combat violence, pay gaps and exploitation of women. we are glad because the libe committee’s report endorsed several of our femm amendments. speaking of violated fundamental rights in the eu, one cannot ignore the severe human rights violations by turkey, in my own country, cyprus. the eu should show zero tolerance when fundamental human rights are violated. this should apply to cyprus as well. my co-patriots are not second class european citizens.
in writing. - the report aims to support and promote initiatives for developing the role of women in the fisheries industry, where women not only contribute to improvements in social and working conditions, but also secure at the same time the family livelihood, encompassing both married and unmarried couples. the common fisheries policy, through specific actions, should ensure equal opportunities and rights of women, stable working conditions and a safe future in this sector. women should have access to ongoing training so as to upgrade their position, be promoted and participate in decision-making bodies. as gender inequalities persist in today’s societies, despite the progress achieved, women in the fisheries sector also deserve special support and attention to boost their presence, confidence and social recognition.
mr president, as you all know, the blockade of the gaza strip has imposed an inhumane reality on one and a half million palestinians, who have been living in a virtual prison in the open air in a state of constant fear and poverty for seven years now. this blockade has been characterized by the united nations secretariat for humanitarian affairs as a denial of fundamental human rights in violation of international law. israel bears the primary responsibility for the lack of prosperity in gaza, since it controls the entry and exit points, its air and sea space, the population register, telecommunications networks and so on. i therefore call on you to insist on the lifting of the siege so that all gaza crossing points are opened and the dignity and human rights of the local population are guaranteed. all restrictions on the movement of persons should be lifted, access to gaza's agricultural land should be guaranteed and trade and transit of goods from gaza to the west bank and israel should be facilitated.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, there is no doubt that the flow of money from illegal activities is a major problem which needs to be tackled alongside measures to tackle the crime itself. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the information on the transfer of funds is kept up to date and that the information is not used for other purposes. in this context, the cooperation with third countries is also a practical element, which, although useful, cannot be done at the expense of the discount on the protection of personal data, as we have seen with other reports on the fight against crime and terrorism. the report also calls for the establishment of a european data protection authority, which would be able to provide the necessary information to the public. furthermore, the report focuses on the problem mainly in terms of the prestige of the financial sector, ignoring that the inherent functioning of this sector, together with the free movement of capital, touted as a fundamental eu principle, are crucial elements in creating an environment conducive to the problem and to money laundering.
in writing. - the proposal for a regulation aims at ensuring the quality and timeliness of the production, provision and quality monitoring of statistical data which are compiled or transmitted for the purpose of the procedures for the detection of macroeconomic imbalances as well as the prevention and correction of excessive imbalances within the union. in addition to that, it also introduces fines in a two-step procedure in cases of intentional misrepresentation, by a member state, of that data.
in writing. the report refers to the fight against money laundering, as modern means of money laundering and terrorist financing are constantly evolving. it is a central element in parliament's efforts to tackle this kind of crossborder criminal activity. civil society organisations have already publicly stated that enhancing transparency of beneficiaries will make it easier and faster to detect such criminal activities, as businesses will be able to know who is behind their partners and suppliers. i welcome this report on money laundering, a crime with many victims, linked to prostitution, drug trafficking, cigarette smuggling, fuel laundering and other fraud against the welfare state. there are many positive aspects to this report. the perpetrators of money laundering should be tried for the crime itself. in particular, i would like to stress the provision to ensure the traceability of payments through the public register for beneficial owners. this will ensure transparency by ensuring full public access to information on beneficiaries. i am also concerned about the proposal to provide for exceptions for certain aspects of the gambling industry. this report should be fully implemented.
in writing. - the funds transfer regulation lays down rules for payment service providers to send information on the payer and the payee throughout the payment chain for the purposes of prevention, investigation and detection of money laundering and terrorist financing. the regulation is trying to ensure that the basic information on the payer of transfer of funds is immediately available to appropriate law enforcement and/or prosecutorial authorities in order to assist them in detecting, investigating and prosecuting terrorists, or other criminals, and tracing the assets of terrorists. it aims to achieve a more efficient fight against money laundering and terrorist financing by enhancing the transparency of fund transfers of all types, domestic and cross border, in order to make it easier for law enforcement authorities to track funds transferred electronically by criminals and terrorists. i voted in favour.
in writing. - this directive aims to achieve a paper-free administration. each member state has numerous incompatible standards on electronic invoicing, which in turn cause problems for cross-border invoicing in public procurement. the technical solutions of many member states or enterprises are not compatible with each other. moreover, enterprises not only face complex situations due to the different requirements, standards, networks and rules of electronic invoicing, but there is an increase in legal uncertainty as to whether an electronic invoice will be accepted in another member state. therefore, there must be a guarantee of interoperability and accessibility of the european standard, including both a semantic model and the syntax of the e-invoice. this will reduce the cost for contracting authorities and economic operators wishing to participate in a procurement procedure and will certainly improve concession procedures. moreover, the e-invoice is an important move towards eu-wide e-public procurement procedures, and a useful tool towards electronic procurement that will allow more efficient use of public funds and resources. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the amendment of regulation no 1166/2008 will guarantee further financial support for the member states in their effort to collect and process vital data regarding all current agriculture trends in the eu. this regulation will fix and update the financial envelope for the period 2014-2018, in order to support the farm structure survey of 2016. the new programme designates the continuation of the contribution and the monitoring of support to all member states in implementing the cap (common agricultural programme) as well as the updated cap 2020. therefore, it is important for the regulation to be approved in order for the european parliament to guarantee its institutional role in the process of adopting the necessary financial assistance to member states.
in writing. european investment bank the eib is an indispensable engine of growth and job creation, supporting the europe 2020 strategy in the short and long term to promote innovation, research and competitiveness. i voted in favour of this year's report because it is an objective annual assessment of the eib's action, governance, compliance and cooperation with other international financial institutions, while calling on the bank to modernise its climate change strategy before 2015.
in writing. i regret the rejection today by the majority of the european parliament of a report on the progress made in gender equality in 2012 under the equality strategy 2010-2015. this year there was more emphasis on issues relating to violence against women, the need for greater participation of women in decision-making centres and measures to meet the barcelona indicators on women's employment and childcare. unfortunately, however, because of the small-party conservative ideology of the right, the targeted measures we proposed to deal with the impact of the economic crisis on women, such as measures to reconcile family and working life, to reduce the wage gap and to facilitate the integration and reintegration of women into the labour market, were ultimately rejected.
in writing. - public access to documents is a fundamental right for all citizens. access to documents cannot be denied by institutions which often hide behind controversial ambiguous interpretations and use them generally in their favour. access should be allowed to all documents freely, as a matter of principle. restrictions can only be applied in exceptional cases. the report on public access to documents drawn up in accordance with the article 17 of regulation no. 1049/2001 and rule 104(7) of the parliament’s rules of procedure and covering the years 2011-2013 needs to be adopted. as a european citizen, i find it unthinkable to limit access to documents, because our modern european society is founded on respect for human rights and transparency. restrictions on public access to documents are against what europe stands for, not only within its borders, but also in the rest of the world. hence, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the financial and economic crisis which severely undermined confidence in the euro and the banking system, and the unclear implementation of the charter of fundamental rights, has led to disappointment and weakening of trust for many europeans. these are some of the reasons, amongst others, for which the number of petitions in 2013 doubled in comparison to 2011, and why more petitions will be sent to the european parliament. therefore, it is important to ensure an efficient and transparent petition process. furthermore, the role of the committee on petitions is significant with regard to the development of democratic principles, such as the increased participation of citizens in the eu decision-making process and increased transparency and accountability so as to ensure that eu law is respected. the report underlines that every petitioner should be treated with respect and integrity, and that every european has the fundamental right to petition the european parliament.
in writing. the vote in favour of the report reflects our support for the comprehensive work that has been done and the positive direction taken, with key points on specific issues (compliance of member states with the cat and opcat, broadening of the definition of torture, torture of children, abolition of the death penalty, trafficking in objects which can be used for capital punishment, torture, etc.). the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. it would also be wrong to expect the eeas and eidhr to fight torture when it has been repeatedly shown that there are ulterior motives behind their actions and statements. the lack of a clear signal of the increased risks faced by lgbti people, whose rights should be a priority in eu relations with third countries, is also a weakness.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on eradicating torture worldwide, as we need to fight against the continued prevalence of torture in the world. torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, are among the most abhorrent violations of human rights, human integrity and human dignity existing in the world today. it is important that the report condemns all forms of violence against women, in particular honour killings, violence entrenched in cultural or religious beliefs, forced marriage, child marriage, gendercide and dowry deaths. moreover, it underlines the need for effective measures, for accountability and redress, and for effective remedies. the eu guidelines on torture remain insufficient. therefore the eu should strengthen the existing instruments. this can be done by identifying priorities, best practices and public diplomacy opportunities; consulting relevant stakeholders, including civil society organisations; and reviewing the implementation of the torture-related issues mentioned in the eu action plan. the credibility, coherence and consistency of eu policy need to be ensured.
in writing. the vote in favour of the report reflects our support for the comprehensive work that has been done and the positive direction taken, with key points on specific issues (compliance of member states with the cat and opcat, broadening of the definition of torture, torture of children, abolition of the death penalty, trafficking in objects which can be used for capital punishment, torture, etc.). the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. it would also be wrong to expect the eeas and eidhr to fight torture when it has been repeatedly shown that there are ulterior motives behind their actions and statements. the lack of a clear signal of the increased risks faced by lgbti people, whose rights should be a priority in eu relations with third countries, is also a weakness.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, first of all i must say that it is always a nice challenge to speak after my colleague, mr van orden, perhaps the best ambassador of turkey to the european parliament. we are convinced that what is happening in turkey today should be a positive concern. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and also that the content of any reforms today in turkey will not relegate the weak and will not lead the citizens of the country to a social and working middle age. the european union has a duty to help the people of turkey to find a peaceful solution to the conflict. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we congratulate the rapporteur on her efforts and point out that there is room for improvement. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners, including those who have been held in custody in turkey, and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. the application of the law of the strong is what brought turkey to cyprus, and we are against the law of the strong. i should like to say that we support the resumption of the talks in cyprus and we hope that they will be concluded, we want them to be concluded, because we are the first to suffer from the division and occupation. we therefore expect the european union and the entire international community to stand in solidarity in the struggle to end the dichotomous status quo, for a solution of a bi-zonal, bi-communal federation that respects international law, ensures the indivisibility of our homeland and people and demilitarizes cyprus, to press turkey to allow the implementation of confidence-building measures that do not leave any hint of upgrading the pseudo-state, such as direct trade. i would also like to recall the proposal to implement security council resolution 550 on sandbox in parallel with the operation of the port and the end of illegal settlement.
madam president, turkey continues to imprison journalists and intellectuals, to silence the media, to suppress violent demonstrations, to have people die because of erdogan's behaviour. berkil is not alive. scandals are no longer news, they're everyday. it threatens the european union, it pursues an anti-european policy, it does not respect the institutions, it does not respect the international legal order and the resolutions of the united nations, it does not recognise the republic of cyprus, it does not help to solve the cyprus problem. the report is not balanced. it just records facts. it does not highlight the major open problems and, most importantly, it does not record any drastic proposals that would help democratize the country and strengthen the efforts of the turkish people. it is time for europe to act. not to be allowed to open chapters 15, 23 and 24. finally, let us send the message that the european union has a voice and is imposing itself.
madam president, commissioner, you asked us to believe them, but right now there is a general uprising in turkey. the tvs are broadcasting the events, the presenters are wearing black i don't know how much longer. that is all for the interior of turkey. as far as external affairs are concerned, two turkish submarines, the frigate imbros and the frigate barbaros, are patrolling the western coast of cyprus, so i cannot believe them, commissioner. on the other hand, i was encouraged by the statement by the turkish ambassador to the european union, who said that the cyprus problem was the biggest obstacle to turkey's accession. we said that they had finally understood that the cyprus problem must be solved, but, mr minister, you did not tell us that in cyprus the issue is not the difference between neighbouring states, but it is an invasion and occupation and must therefore be treated as such. the suffering and frightened cypriot people, ladies and gentlemen, expected the european parliament to set the conditions, to set the conditions for the solution of the cyprus problem, which would be the basic principles and values of the european union, human rights, as the european people's party did the other day in its manifesto in dublin. instead, ladies and gentlemen of the european people's party, you come and give us a blueprint for a solution to the cyprus problem, which everyone interprets as he wishes, which guarantees nothing, while we give an alibi to the arbitrariness and economic power of turkey, which you so much admire, to impose itself in the region. this is not in line with the principles and values of the european union, and you would do well to reconsider it. the report is out of place and out of time, and so is the debate.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the report, unfortunately, is limited to prohibitions, it does not impose sanctions. on the contrary, it seeks to reward turkish audacity by calling for the opening of chapters 23-24 without turkey having implemented the ankara protocol, without having signed the united nations convention on the law of the sea, without having ended the occupation of cyprus. it calls for the opening of chapter 15 on energy, ignoring turkish threats and the presence of turkish ships imbros and barbaros in the cypriot eez. turkey is holding sandbank hostage, demanding exchange and direct trade instead of implementing un resolution 550. it continues to establish illegal settlements and to violate the human rights of refugees, the missing and the trapped in cyprus. mr füle, turkey is violating international law and yet it is going unpunished. this is a humiliation of the european union itself, of the european acquis and of the principles which we must all respect and defend. unfortunately, the european union is rewarding turkey instead of punishing it. let's finally face it.
in writing. - this report underlines some cultural and educational aspects of our common european gastronomic heritage. gastronomy is both an important component and an incentive for tourism and travel, allowing tourists to experience different culinary traditions and a variety of food. by providing education, through the european ‘food at schools’ programmes, we can improve awareness of nutritional aspects of food, gastronomy and the gastronomic culture of various eu countries, food production, labelling and consumer rights. at the same time, these programmes improve understanding of the most important causes of food-related illnesses and the conditions that often generate huge expenditure in both public and private health systems.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the establishment of the pericles 2020 programme and on the member states that have not adopted the euro as their national currency. as a shadow rapporteur, i believe that the euro is an attractive target for organised criminal groups, both in europe and in third countries. the international dimension of the counterfeiting and pirating threat requires coordination at transnational level. any fraud against the eu budget is a criminal act against european citizens and their currency. it is of the utmost importance to ensure unhindered access of the competent national authorities of the member states to the 'pericles 2020' programme and its implementation in third countries. this can be achieved by simplifying the various control procedures, reducing administrative costs, providing access to statistics on counterfeiting cases and targeted actions. i fully share the rapporteur's view that extending the programme to the other member states will help to prevent and combat counterfeiting and counterfeiting of the euro more effectively.
in writing. - armed conflict has detrimental consequences on children, especially when they are recruited as soldiers forced to kill. not only does it separate them from their family and their childish innocence, but it makes them extremely vulnerable to all kinds of violence against others, and often victims themselves of severe violation of their own fundamental human rights including sexual exploitation. at present, it has been estimated that 250[nbsp ]000 to 800[nbsp ]000 children are involved in armed conflicts. even though the primary responsibility to protect people lies with states, we must not forget the responsibility and obligation of armed non-state actors (ansa), to protect people in accordance with international humanitarian law (ihl). the report not only supports the campaign ‘zero under 18ʼ and the un declaration of 12[nbsp ]february, as the international day against the use of child soldiers, but it aims to encourage the signing of action plans for the protection of children in armed conflict. i voted in favour.
in writing. - the single european sky initiative (ses) was launched in 2000, bringing air traffic management and navigation services under the common transport policy. however, since then, the ses has not delivered the expected results. as a result, airspace users and passengers pay the unnecessary burden of the inefficiencies in the eu aviation chain in time, fuel burn and money. the recast of the regulation on the implementation of the single sky aims at accelerating implementation of the reform of air navigation services while, at the same time, remaining faithful to the original objectives and principles. it intends to achieve this goal by strengthening the independence of the national supervisory authorities, reinforcing the role of the network manager, redefining the concept of functional airspace blocks by allowing the industry to take a more prominent role and by separating air navigation services in order to introduce market principles in this field.
in writing. - the key aim of this regulation is to establish and maintain a high and uniform level of civil aviation safety in europe and establish the structure (governance) of the european union agency for aviation. it is a very important regulation for two reasons: on the one hand, because it adapts to the new single european sky rules, and on the other, because of its governance reform, the aim of which is to implement the interinstitutional agreement on the european agencies signed in july 2012. it applies to the design, production, maintenance and operation of aeronautical products and to the personnel and organisations involved in design and maintenance, to the personnel involved in the operation of aircraft, to the design and maintenance of airports and the relevant personnel, and finally, to the air traffic management and air navigation services.
in writing. - travel and tourism represents 10% of the eu’s gdp. more than 1.8 million businesses are operating in the sector and this translates to employment of approximately 5.2% of the eu’s total workforce. when the previous directive 90/314/eec was established, some grey zones appeared in the sector, concerning the pre-arranged packages. therefore, the new directive proposed aims to modernise the scope of the previous one, taking seriously into consideration the protection of travellers. thus, the new provisions for travel packages give more rights to consumers, centralise the need both to protect and to offer them all the necessary support needed for their travelling, and to safeguard, among others, their right to cancel any package prior to their travel date without compensation, in extraordinary circumstances.
in writing. - fluorinated greenhouse gases (f-gases) are among the most hazardous emissions with a potential to cause global warming exceeding, by up to 23[nbsp ]000 times higher, that of carbon dioxide (co2). they are commonly used in the industrial sector as refrigerants, solvents isolating gases and aerosol propellants. it is estimated that by 2050 they could amount for 8% of the global greenhouse gas emissions and therefore the eu, the g20, the us and china support limits in their use and the use of hydrofluoric carbon (hfc) in particular. thus, the new f-gas regulation proposal by the commission, as modified by the envi report, calls for a faster and deeper reduction by 16% by 2030, banning the use of f-gases in stationary refrigerant systems from 2022, and in stationary air conditioning from 2025, among other measures, in order to discourage their use. new innovative green technologies will eventually replace their use, as sustainable alternatives that are not only compatible with the montreal protocol but also relatively cheap for small companies to produce. we welcome the trilogue agreement for imposing bans and limitations in order to fast forward the development of new environment-friendly products.
in writing. the legislative proposal supports labour and social mobility and guarantees equal treatment and non-discrimination. the free movement of workers is one of the four fundamental freedoms on which the single market is based and is a core value of the union. in particular, it offers a worker who wishes to work in another eu country access to employment, equal working conditions, social and tax advantages, access to training, trade union membership, the right to reside and access to education for children. the adoption of this european legislation will provide equal opportunities and rights for european citizens. in particular, as regards the cypriots seeking their fortunes in other eu countries, i am convinced that this legislation will also give them a competitive advantage, because the new generation of cypriots is highly qualified and ready for a pan-european labour market.
in writing. - copernicus is proposed to be the successor of the european earth observation programme gmes (global monitoring for environment and security) which was first developed as part of the framework programme for research and technological development and then established as of 2010 as an operational programme in the field of space policy. its main purpose is to provide data and information stemming from space-borne and in-situ observations which contribute to the protection of the environment, to civil protection and to security – and ultimately to economic growth. copernicus earth observation will bring benefits to the environment, security and jobs, as it will help to organise city planning and agriculture in a more efficient way. the expected financial benefit will be in the region of eur[nbsp ]30 billion and some 50[nbsp ]000 new jobs over the period 2015-2030. i voted in favour.
in writing. - parliament adopted a final report following a six-month inquiry led by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on edward snowdenʼs revelations of mass surveillance by the us national security agency (nsa) and the intelligence agencies of certain eu countries. this inquiry has been the most comprehensive inquiry to date with testimony from all key actors. the report on the nsa spying scandal condemns the mass surveillance programmes used by the us and by eu member states, and it urges the eu to suspend and reform some existing transatlantic agreements with the usa. these include a bank data transfer deal (known as the tftp or swift agreement) and the safe harbour agreement on data privacy which allows us companies to transfer eu citizensʼ data to the us securely. moreover, it calls on the commission to exclude data protection from free trade talks and to conclude negotiations with the us to introduce judicial redress for eu citizens facing privacy violations. parliament is the only eu institution to have tackled this issue while the council remained silent. it is essential to ensure that the right to privacy of our citizens is not at stake and to effectively protect citizensʼ fundamental rights. we cannot accept any similar incident happening again.
in writing. the report proposes the development of a criminal justice scoreboard, with a stronger role for national parliaments and the european parliament, ensuring that they are involved in the process as provided for in the treaties and that they are regularly informed of the results of evaluations. it is also concerned about the lack of data on national justice systems, and calls on the member states to cooperate fully with the eu and council of europe institutions, to collect and provide on a regular basis objective, reliable and comparable data on their justice systems. to this end, it is desirable to establish an effective mechanism for the regular assessment of member states' compliance with the eu fundamental values as set out in article 2 teu. however, it must not be forgotten that the concept of the rule of law is a broad one, requiring public authorities to act in accordance with the legal framework laid down by the constitutions of the member states and not to be exhausted in matters of criminal justice. the commission should also be able to assess the effectiveness of the national criminal justice systems in the member states, in particular in the light of the results of the evaluation of the criminal justice systems in the member states.
in writing. although media policy is a matter for the eu member states, some issues need to be investigated not only at national but also at federal level. convergence or merger of audiovisual media services has, until now, been dealt with in europe, as a rule, separately, on a linear and non-linear level. the digitisation of broadcasting and media technologies, the convergence of transmission techniques and the gradual development of mobile and hybrid devices are emerging as a rival to traditional broadcasting services and other types of internet services for which there is no regulatory framework. rapid market changes in this sector, however, create new challenges and opportunities for media operators and, at the moment, convergence also means innovation, requiring new forms of cooperation between businesses and sectors. the existing legal framework for audiovisual media needs to be revised and adapted to the current conditions of convergence of markets. access to audiovisual services and the possibility of tracing should be part of the regulatory framework. the diversity of cultural and audiovisual creation must be accessible and discoverable for all european citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it highlights the necessity to put the informed and effective exercise of all rights attached to union citizenship at the centre of the political agenda, especially now at a time of economic, political and social crisis. as the rapporteur of the report for ‘2013, the european year of citizens (eyc)’, i endorse the proposal of the commission to conduct a thorough assessment of the benefits and challenges of the eyc. eu citizens must be fully aware of and enjoy without discrimination the broad array of rights granted to them under union law and the charter of fundamental rights. we cannot ignore the persisting barriers that prevent eu citizens from exercising fully all their european rights both within but also outside the eu, in cross-border situations. barriers that are associated with lack of information about the right to vote and be voted for in a member state other than their own, to participate in both european and local elections and to have easy and transparent access to documents should be removed. by giving greater visibility to union citizenship and to its concrete benefits to individuals, a better understanding of the value of european integration can certainly be achieved.
the question is "blue card". mr. van dalen, i think you are not aware of the facts. you said that cyprus is constantly getting help from europe. i should like to inform you that cyprus has not received any help from europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected, and that the community's financial interests are protected. cyprus asked for help when the eurogroup decisions on greece cost my country four and a half billion and was the only country to pay and then, with the "exclusion" of the cypriot banks in athens and their takeover by the bank of piraeus, we lost another three and a half billion. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet its obligations under the treaty. you don't know the facts. the cypriots paid for the cutting of deposits with their own money, which was unprecedented. please comment.
the troika has not helped our peoples, nor has it laid the foundations for a better social or economic future. the whole process of readjustment has been a blow to democracy. it installed governments that were not legitimate, it impoverished thousands of workers, it drove unemployment to unprecedented levels, it wiped out small businesses, pensions, wages, savings. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. we are opposed to budgetary discipline, we are opposed to austerity policies, we are opposed to memoranda and, of course, we are opposed to the application of prescription policies. such are the recipes of privatization in an austerity period. we therefore call on our colleagues to support our group's amendment, which condemns the privatisation programme promoted by the memoranda of understanding, which particularly targets profit-making public bodies, and calls for the immediate termination of this process.
madam president, let's not hide behind our thumb. the troika is the alibi for the promotion of hardline neoliberal policies, pro-banking and anti-people, policies which i hope will be overturned in the next european elections. i welcome the excellent content of the two reports and congratulate the three rapporteurs from the committees on economic and monetary affairs and employment and social affairs for justifying the absence of community support mechanisms in the euro area, resulting in financial agreements being concluded outside the community method. they blame the european central bank for taking decisions outside its sphere of competence, and they also criticize the commission for not acting as a moral watchdog but for being unfortunately passive in its monitoring of the chain of social consequences in the european south. unemployment, poverty, impoverishment, the undermining of collective agreements and labour rights, cuts in pensions and budgetary funds, especially in the health sector, and growing euroscepticism. the shaving in my country, which was really unfair, is unfortunately equivalent to shaving heads in the european union. i welcome the proposals for a detailed assessment of the social impact in the memorandum countries by the commission itself and the international labour organisation and the council of europe. i believe that the troika should be replaced immediately by a community management tool, so that there is transparency, binding rules and democratic accountability.
the european parliament must question the legality of the decisions of the troika, madam president. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. and more importantly, we had no real results. austerity has intensified the recession and increased unemployment, a dangerous cocktail that has brought about huge social explosions. i propose that the role of the troika, the way it operates, the way it takes decisions, be reassessed, that it finally be held accountable to governments and, of course, to the european parliament. finally, to send a clear message that this policy has come full circle, has failed, has gone bankrupt. the commissioner must remember that it is governments that govern, not the international monetary fund and the european central bank. the only way is to get back to growth, to new jobs, to investment. you may be dealing with numbers, where some people are prospering, but people are starving. you forget that in my country, whose budget is less than 0.3% of the european union, people went to bed as housewives and woke up plundered.
the committee on foreign affairs and security adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - i know . the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european asylum fund. the fund is indeed bringing about a number of improvements which will contribute to the achievement of the strategic objectives of the european union and create stronger european added value. we welcome the efforts to achieve, through this fund, greater solidarity between all the countries of the union with a view to effective policy coordination and burden sharing. the actions undertaken and financed by this regulation shall respect the fundamental rights of asylum seekers and returnees. the general objective of the fund shall be to contribute to the effective management of migration flows and to the implementation and strengthening of the common asylum policy. voluntary and forced return are interlinked and mutually reinforcing. therefore, when managing refunds, member states should be encouraged to enhance the complementarity between those two forms of refund. it is essential that that fund support specific measures for those returning to the country of return, as union readmission agreements are an integral part of the union's return policy and a key tool for the effective management of migration flows. in addition to supporting the return of persons as provided for in this regulation, the fund should support other measures to combat illegal immigration.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it aims principally to enhance all aspects of the common european asylum system. it also adopts a fair and transparent allocation of financial resources and enables the participation of relevant ngos in the context of partnerships at national level. the asylum, migration and integration fund will contribute towards the strengthening of practical cooperation between member states so as to protect the rights of those in need of international protection, but will also look at the integration of legally residing third-country nationals. the procedures must be just and efficient throughout the eu and resistant to abuse and, most importantly, in line with the stockholm programme. the fund will enhance solidarity among member states facing particular pressures and in developing practical mechanisms for the voluntary and coordinated sharing of responsibilities between them. it is also important that the report stipulates that all actions financed under the fund are to be implemented in full compliance with the charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. i congratulate the rapporteur for supporting the action of the troika, calling for its termination and the creation of transparent crisis management mechanisms. i support the preparation of a detailed report and the establishment of a euro-group to examine the social impact of the troika memoranda on employment, the european social acquis, the neuralgic sectors of education and health, the social fabric and vulnerable groups in order to propose solutions, cuts and reforms. we ask: • a comprehensive social recovery plan, especially in the memorandum countries; • adequate lending to smes, which are the backbone of development; • proper use of european resources, especially the esf; • implementation of projects to combat youth unemployment; • full implementation of the european youth guarantee; • targeted actions for women, the elderly and vulnerable groups.
in writing. - the treaty of lisbon put economic and social objectives on equal footing. however, the severe economic, social and political crisis that europe is suffering from revealed that the treaty of lisbon did not provide the eu with an adequate framework to deal with the current challenges, as we wished. this was a crash-test for the lisbon treaty. soon we will have european elections and we must not forget that the european parliament certainly emerged out of the treaty as a definite winner, a ‘guardian of the treaties’. the lisbon treaty itself contained a number of innovations in order to address the issue of eu legitimacy. hence the fact that it takes some time for these innovations to affect eu governance. it is therefore crucial to discuss the importance of citizens’ active participation in the democratic life of the eu and ways to encourage this; to reinforce the european democratic process; to strengthen the accountability of eu institutions; to improve solidarity; to minimise gaps and inequalities between countries and within countries and people; to proceed towards deeper integration and the social dimension of the economic monetary union; to ensure democratic legitimisation in all decision-making (e.g. the troika).
in writing. this proposal proposes to establish an arbitration mechanism, with the aim of ensuring policy coherence (pdc). in particular, this proposal encourages the strengthening of the role of the european parliament in the process of promoting the cfsp and, in particular, meets the need to create an independent mechanism within the union to collect and formally manage complaints submitted by citizens or communities affected by union policies. the new framework, after 2015, should include a target for the common agricultural policy (cap) that will make it possible to measure the progress of the countries of the south and to assess the impact of the various policies on development, by addressing key issues such as population growth, global food security, illicit financial flows and green growth, always in the context of the cap.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, we are disappointed as a group with the final form of the text, first of all with the timetable, since we are not in the middle of the programme's implementation period as the title of the report indicates, but we are much more disappointed with the content. unfortunately, instead of taking this opportunity to make constructive criticism in order to lay a solid and healthy foundation for the next programme, we have produced a text which is a series of generalisations that generally welcome the european union's policies in the area of security and justice and expresses almost no criticism or a sincere attempt to identify weaknesses and possible errors. the text does not in any way question the direction taken by many important policies, such as those in the field of immigration and asylum or internal security, where repressive measures and security are always given priority over rights and where more and more monitoring measures are called for. the crucial role of economic policies in undermining fundamental rights is also not recognised, nor are the surveillance scandals and data transfer agreements between the european union and the united states of america, which have led to serious violations, explicitly condemned. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction, and it is a step which we must take to ensure that the directive is implemented in a way that is compatible with the objectives of the directive.
in writing. - this report must include the participation of ngos in the upr process and in all significant major human rights sessions in the unhrc, icc and on the fight against torture and against any other forms of ill-treatment, particularly with regard to children. furthermore, the fight against the death penalty, the ratification of the un convention against corruption and the un convention against transnational organised crime by all un members as well as on the support for the establishment of a un special rapporteur on financial crime, corruption and human rights, must be seen as a priority.
in writing. - on the 27 november 2013, the environment committee approved the second reading for the regulation concerning the sound level of motor vehicles. after three dialogues and several technical meetings, the negotiations resulted in the adoption of the least ambitious of all proposals which are far from s&d’s views. i would be happier if more ambitious targets were set for industry, reducing seriously the noise level for cars, vans, lorries and buses, because eu citizens are heavily exposed to high noise levels. these high noise levels pose a serious risk to their health causing them cardiovascular disease, high blood pressure and stress. despite the above, i finally voted in favour because two important provisions were taken on board, namely the acoustic vehicle alerting systems and a new testing method to be aligned with international standards, which improves the existing regulation.
in writing. - the eu currently does not have a horizontal legislative framework to enforce its rights under the world trade organization (wto) and other international trade agreements. in a global context where the number of retaliatory actions is increasing, the proposed instrument is legitimately designed to strengthen the enforcement of the eu’s trade rights, consolidate the eu’s credibility and ultimately convince our trading partners to respect the rules of the game as laid down in trade agreements. in addition to that, the present proposal is also an element of a strategy to open up new markets for the eu and aligns the decision-making to the lisbon treaty. this is highly important piece of legislation which will streamline the eu’s ability to act quickly and more efficiently with measures to enforce its trading rights coming from dispute settlement decisions. this will not only protect eu industry better but also encourage greater compliance from trading partners.
in writing. - the conformity assessment procedure has shown up substantial weaknesses, lack of transparency, and the swift approval and placing on the market of medical devices despite insufficient investigations of their use on patients. insufficient clinical data, however, results in patients being put at risk. furthermore, medical devices presenting the highest potential risks for patients, such as those listed in class iii, should be subject to a more stringent procedure than a conformity assessment. at present there are too many devices labelled as ‘single-use’, which could be reprocessed. manufacturers do not want to be responsible if these reprocessed devices pose a danger to the patient. improper labelling may also be due to economic considerations. there should only be two labelling options: ‘single-use’, for devices which are truly single-use, and ‘reusable’. moreover, devices which are reprocessed should be subject to stricter and more transparent standards.
in writing. - ivd medical devices are used for diagnostic use outside the human body. they may be used in a laboratory or in the presence of the patient. examples include blood sugar measuring tests and hiv tests. the current directive does not ensure that low quality ivd medical devices are not placed on the market, as they can circulate freely in the common market. therefore the european union is obliged to ensure the highest possible safety. notified bodies need to be improved so as to enhance public safety, supervision and control over the entire certification system. furthermore, it is important that the system of market surveillance and vigilance is strengthened and that unannounced inspections of the companies are compulsory. moreover, informed consent must be included as it is a crucial element of the charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. - the year 2015 has been declared as european year of development. the aim is to raise awareness of the euʼs financial, humanitarian and development assistance for developing countries. it is positive that this legislative proposal does not neglect the millions of people living under poverty levels within the eu, a number in excess of 100[nbsp ]million. the proposal underlines the need to respect the fundamental values of people within and outside the european union and in particular their human rights and human dignity, thus adopting as a motto for the 2015 campaign the phrase: ‘our world, our dignity, our futureʼ. the campaign aims to mobilise and coordinate non-state actors (ngos etc.) from all 28 member states in order to familiarise the public with the basic principles of international cooperation and solidarity in the field of development aid policy. i voted in favour of the proposal, believing that the eu can really make a change in providing development aid to vulnerable people everywhere.
in writing. - the proposal for european sst services has been put forward in order to achieve european technological non-dependence in critical domains. furthermore, it will maintain independent access to space which will guarantee the long-term accessibility of european and national space infrastructure facilities and services which are vital for safety and security. this decision will define the partnership, how the member states, with their existing and future assets, will contribute to the sst capability on a european level. in addition, the union will present a ‘legal frameworkʼ outlining the governance scheme and data policy in line with the councilʼs conclusions.
in writing. - accident preparedness and coordination should be at the very core of nuclear safety. the commission proposal aims to amend, strengthen and supplement the nuclear safety directive by combining technical improvements with wider safety issues such as governance, transparency and on-site preparedness and response. for this purpose, it introduces a requirement for the effective independence of competent regulatory authorities and established criteria in terms of institutional organisation of the regulatory authorities, budgetary requirements, and human resources as well as regulatory tasks. the proposal introduces provisions on safety objectives for nuclear installations throughout their whole life-cycle as well as requirements for the nuclear installations, underlining the importance of external natural and man-made hazards as well as defence-in-depth. it furthermore establishes methodology for the whole lifecycle of a nuclear power plant, from siting, design, construction, commissioning and operation to decommissioning. in particular, it underlines the importance of strategies for accident preparedness and establishes rules for on-site emergency preparedness, including a requirement for an on-site emergency response centre. i voted in favour.
in writing. - the stockholm programme is a multiannual programme (2009-2014) defining the priorities of the european union in the areas of freedom, security and justice. according to the cyprus presidency, which submitted a mid-term review of the stockholm programme to the european council, substantial progress has been made on several objectives of the stockholm programme in the areas of asylum/migration and border control. however, in some areas, progress is lagging behind, either due to the lack of commission proposals or due to certain delays in the adoption/implementing phase. nevertheless, the evaluation report adopted in february 2014, includes important references and achievements of the current legislature. among others, an interinstitutional agreement between the parliament, the council and the commission to follow progress made, through evaluation of criminal justice in the justice scoreboard, a so-called copenhagen commission to secure compliance by all member states with the common values enshrined in article 2 teu, access to documents and to the antidiscrimination directive. i voted in favour.
in writing. - the proposed regulation for a ‘connected continent: building a telecoms single market’ has as a main aim to reduce costs for the telephone users, while using them across the eu. this initiative will create a single and unified market where european travellers within the european union will not be charged for data roaming. this will be available from december 2015. however in order for smaller telecommunication providers to be able to adapt to the new age and not have a problem with the dis-economies of scale, the european commission through the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec) will monitor and regulate the market accordingly. i voted in favour because it will free citizens from charges and eventually unify the european telecommunication market.
in writing. - the regulation for electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions aims to bring all member states to the same level of security and also update the previous regulation existing since 1999. a single database of information will be created, which will be available to all member states, thus eliminating the rise in cybercrime and ensuring better regulation of electronic transactions. the union will thus update its ageing anti-cyber regulations with a 21st century framework, which will guarantee a safer environment for european citizens. i voted in favour of the regulation.
in writing. - it is true that the lack of a coherent and comprehensive approach to eu foreign policy and eu action in various recent conflicts ((sahel, mali) has damaged its credibility. the eu must find the way to respond effectively to all international challenges and conflicts by using proactive and complete conflict-prevention initiatives and not reactive contingency and emergency action. in addition it must improve its ability to coordinate its external action with its internal policies and seek better coherence between institutions, finances and practice. in order to fulfil its ambition to become a global player the eu also needs to review its financing mechanism for eu military operations. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report.
in writing. - the proposal for an optional or voluntary electronic identification device rather than a mandatory one does not live up to its promises and expectations. the proposal aims to reflect the newest technological developments regarding the identification of bovine animals and labelling of beef and allowing for time to be acquainted with the eid system. as food safety is one of the main concerns of european citizens, i believe that member states should modernise their technological systems in order to improve administration, simplify registration and guarantee the traceability of animals whilst ensuring proper information for people about the food they eat.
madam president, this week we are in cyprus, in the week of the passion, looking forward to easter and the resurrection. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and parliament, and the council will be consulted on the matter. the report by mr pimenta, which i am sure will be very useful to the house, is a report which is very much in line with the spirit of the report and which is very much in line with the spirit of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. but what about my own country, cyprus, whose citizens are experiencing these very same sufferings not just now - this week - but during the last few months? when will the resurrection come when what we are thinking about is the future and not about yesterday and not about the mistakes that the europeans made?
in writing. - this legislative proposal addresses ways for improving the battle against customs fraud caused by the misdeclaration of goods origin, the misdescription of goods and the misuse of the transit system. customs frauds resulting from false declaration of goods origin and the misuse of the transit system, lead to a loss of 107.7 million euros for the eu27. this is a substantial loss of revenue that needs to be immediately and effectively addressed in order to preserve the eu’s own resources. an extensive cooperation and exchange of information needs to be implemented between both the member states and the commission, to improve both the anti-fraud system in the customs field and the customs risk management at national and union levels.
in writing. for the first time, we are setting up rules at european level for the financing of deposit guarantee schemes. it is a pity that we had to experience the cruelty of an uncontrolled and devastating economic crisis to take action. deposit guarantee schemes will protect depositors and ensure the stability of the financial system, in particular in times of crisis. i welcome the effort of parliament to protect the deposits of citizens, especially when for most of them these 'deposits' are the fruit of long hours of hard work to secure a better future for themselves and their children. i really hope that the debate and active dialogue will not stop here, with this particular vote, but that it will continue after the european elections as there will always be room for improvement and action. as long as the crisis continues, the problems are there and their complexity is a given!
in writing. - the directive on alternative fuels infrastructure aims to reduce the eu's dependency on oil as well as to reduce the greenhouse emissions. it will enforce all member states to submit national plans for alternative fuel infrastructure by mid-2016 and will encourage all sorts of industries all over the european union to seek for alternative solutions through research and development of new methods of sustainable growth. this will ultimately lead to new jobs being created across the eu. i voted in favour of the directive.
in writing. - in an effort to improve cross-border circulation of longer and higher trucks, it is important to take into consideration environmental criteria as well. thus, i am in favour of a proper impact assessment report to be presented to parliament and the council by 2016, so as to be able to decide on appropriate weights and dimensions for road to rail or road to ship transport which pollute less and have a more commercially attractive appearance.
in writing. the crisis has highlighted the systemic nature of the banking problems of the member states, the lack of an appropriate infrastructure to manage the problems of financial institutions in the euro area, and the absence of minimum uniform rules for crisis prevention, management and repression. bank failures point to both serious shortcomings in existing regulation and the absence of mechanisms for the organisation of orderly liquidations. several eu member states had no choice but to resort to external borrowing to rescue their banking sector. in cyprus, an unprecedented cut in deposits was unethically and arbitrarily imposed, causing irreparable damage to hundreds of citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises, paying for the mistakes of the banks and the "gaps and weaknesses" in the prevention, coordination and ability of the euro area to intervene quickly in the event of a financial crisis. the framework is designed to provide sound rules in the event of a bank failure in an eu member state and to create a stable regime that will provide the authorities with a reliable set of tools for timely and rapid intervention in unhealthy or problematic credit institutions, so that there is no need to rescue credit institutions with taxpayers' money. our concern is how to rebuild the confidence of european citizens in the financial system in the eu and how to protect them from arbitrariness!
in writing. - an interinstitutional agreement has been achieved in order to set up a mandatory register for transparency reasons, for all stakeholders involved in one way or another in the eu policy making process. thus all representatives of organisations, speakers, clients represented by organisations and self-employed individuals will have to disclose their identity and register in order to be enabled to participate in meetings, events and other decision making processes. i voted in favour.
in writing. - the tripartite social summit for growth and employment (tss) was set up by a council decision in the context of the european employment strategy and subsequently the lisbon strategy. it is an important initiative for more effective industrial and social dialogue and for the formulation and implementation of sound economic and social policies in the european union. this proposal revises and improves the 2003 council decision on the involvement of the social partners, the composition and the programme for monitoring the work of the meeting.
in writing. following the formal adoption by the european parliament of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 (mff), an own-initiative report was prepared to highlight the political and institutional lessons of the related negotiations. we insist on the commitments to promote initiatives to boost growth and employment (such as on youth unemployment), underline the commitment of the president of the commission to a post-budget review (2016) of mff 14/20 and to a new discussion on the duration of the mff beyond 2020 in order to align it with the mandate of the european parliament and the commission, and support a five-year mff. a genuine post-election political debate on the role and functioning of the eu budget must take place, involving not only the three eu institutions but also national parliaments as well as national parties.
madam president, there is support for changing the time-frame of the directive to cover periods prior to 1993. i will speak of the crippled island of cyprus, with its ancient civilization and turbulent history. unfortunately, as a sad consequence of the turkish invasion of 1974 and the continued illegal occupation of 36.2% of the cypriot territory, there is a systematic destruction of the cultural and religious heritage in the occupied territories. hundreds of historical and religious monuments in the occupied territories have been destroyed, looted and vandalized. the illegal excavation continues. cultural treasures have been stolen from museums and private collections and illegally sold abroad. although a party to the unesco convention, turkey is in systematic violation of the provisions of the convention which clearly state that the export and transfer of property in cultural property under duress, which results directly or indirectly from the occupation of a country by a foreign power, must be considered illegal. i denounce turkey and ask the european union not to open any accession chapter while the recall of cultural heritage in cyprus continues.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation because i believe in the need for a satisfactory system of official quality control by independent product personnel to ensure the right of consumers to safe and healthy food and to prevent any fraud in the food sector. in a global market where food supply chains are becoming ever larger and more complex, the eu is exposed to new risks. the proposed regulation revises the existing legislation in order to overcome shortcomings identified in its implementation and aims to modernise and integrate a system of official controls, to harmonise with quality assurance rules and to achieve a uniform approach to controls in the food and feed chain. such a system would enhance consumer confidence and benefit food businesses.
in writing. - com(2013)0260 aims to unify and update more than 40 different pieces of eu legislation concerning animal health. the proposal will ultimately help in establishing a monitoring system regarding animal diseases hazardous to humans or to other animals (such as for example, african swine flu and bluetongue). in addition it will control illegal animal trafficking within the eu and from third countries towards eu. the proposal will be valid and applicable both for animals for livestock (cows, ships, goats) but also for animals that are considered as pets (mostly exotic ones). i voted in favour for this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour in order to improve the protective measures against the increased influx of dangerous new pests caused by the globalisation of trade. this will more effectively ensure the competitiveness of the eu plant production sector in times of severe climate change which not only enables dangerous pests to survive in europe, but also to have detrimental effects on health and the european economy, in general.
in writing. the labour force survey (lfs) is the reference framework for the collection of statistics on the labour market in europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data collected by the member states are not used for the purposes of the investigation. financial support is also required, as a matter of principle, for national public authorities carrying out statistical activities with real european added value, so that the financial burden is shared in a coherent way between the eu and member states budgets.
in writing. the report aims to address a number of issues, including how to access finance, so that both the eu and the member states can promote entrepreneurship and develop a better regulatory framework. overburdening and ineffective employment and social protection legislation have a negative impact on small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and micro-enterprises. the european social fund can make a significant contribution by helping smes develop the skills of their employees and by creating more favourable working conditions by encouraging entrepreneurship and self-employment in the eu. job creation requires a welcoming environment to help entrepreneurs (create, 'erasmus for young entrepreneurs' and the 'entrepreneurship 2020' strategy) as well as promoting the entrepreneurial spirit. unfortunately, the proportion of eu citizens who want to be selfemployed has fallen from 45% to 37% in the last three years. it is of particular importance that the appropriate regulatory framework is in place to remove unnecessary barriers that impose disproportionate costs on businesses and hinder their ability to grow, create jobs and compete globally. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - this regulation aims to introduce noise-related operating restrictions at eu airports in an effort to harmonise, clarify and strengthen relevant decisions at eu airports. based on the principles of the international civil aviation organisation, the aim is to identify the most cost-efficient way of tackling aircraft noise at each individual airport. the regulation covers, however, only large airports with more than 50[nbsp ]000 civil aircraft movements per year. thus it local authorities have the power to decide on noise-related measures for smaller airports. i voted in favour.
in writing. from its birth in 1985 as an intergovernmental action, to today in the form of community european action, the european capitals of culture initiative has been firmly established in the consciousness of european citizens. it aims to highlight europe's multicultural richness and to promote mutual understanding between european citizens. the regulatory framework of this institution, as established in 2006, expires in 2019. we agree with the new, realistic, compromise framework proposed because it attempts to streamline the selection process, to make infrastructure investment more sustainable, to seek access to additional sources of finance and to create the possibility of a city taking the lead in a regional proposal. i think that it is particularly necessary today, in view of the economic crisis, to provide such incentives to encourage investment in culture and creativity, and that is why i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. this own-initiative report is a response to the european commission's communication 'opening up education: innovative teaching and learning methods for all through new technologies and open educational resources'. the digital dimension is increasingly invading our lives. this provides opportunities but also challenges for the education sector: the benefits of new technologies must be exploited without neglecting the value of traditional teaching and learning methods. the widespread use of digital technologies creates opportunities for teaching and learning in innovative ways for education and training institutions, teachers, students and learners. the eu should promote investment in training facilities to ensure the availability of ict infrastructure and equipment, support the training and professional development of teachers in relation to ict and promote the use of open educational resources (oer). in the field of education and training, it is essential to continue to improve existing methods and to promote innovative methods of teaching and learning. the gps can make a significant contribution to achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and make lifelong learning a reality.
in writing. the objective of the recast of the 1993 directive on the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of a state is to increase the number of returns of cultural objects designated as 'national treasures'. this directive is an important tool in the fight against the illicit trafficking of cultural goods, which is one of the most widespread forms of organised crime in the world today. unfortunately, in the occupied territories of cyprus, an eu member state, the violent and systematic destruction of cultural and religious heritage has continued for forty-some years, as a sad consequence of the turkish invasion of 1974 and the continued illegal occupation of 36.2% of the cypriot territory. hundreds of historical and religious monuments scattered throughout the occupied territories have been destroyed, looted and vandalized. the illegal excavation continues. cultural treasures were stolen from museums and private collections and illegally sold abroad. turkey, although a party to the 1970 unesco convention, defiantly disregards its provisions. i denounce turkey and call on the eu not to open new accession chapters for turkey unless the cultural destruction in the occupied territories of cyprus and the illegal transport and trafficking of cultural treasures is immediately brought to an end.
in writing. - plastic bags are a scourge on the environment, as they need hundreds of years for their dissolution. after extensive negotiations, an agreement was reached to regulate and eliminate extensive use of plastic bags within the eu. the agreement includes categorisation of plastic bags, reduction in their use by up to 50[nbsp ]% and department stores charging consumers fees for plastic bags. i voted in favour.
in writing. - this report aims to fight against fraud to the union’s financial interests. by means of criminal law, it defines the criminal offences for which a prospective european public prosecutor’s office would have jurisdiction. it translates into union law the existing convention for the protection of the financial interests of the european communities, which include among others: corruption, collection of vat and the concept of a public official, fraud and fraud related offences which affect the union’s financial interests. minimum criminal sanctions are to be enforced for fraud and corruption offences. i believe that there should be a greater cooperation between member states and eurojust with regard to criminal offences and core principles of criminal law should be restated.
in writing. i believe that there should be close and good cooperation between the european parliament and the national parliaments. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction, and it is a step which we are all very proud of. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet the requirements of the budget.
in writing. - this directive establishes minimum rules for the definition of criminal offences and sanctions for counterfeiting the euro or any other currency. it aims to increase protection through criminal penalties and sanctions and combat counterfeiting crimes, as well as the intention of bringing fraudulent currency into circulation, its import, export and transport. it also defines crimes which are associated to the instruments, articles, computer programs and any data used for counterfeiting currency. the incitement to aiding, abetting or attempting any of the aforementioned offences, can be seen as counterfeit crimes. the directive aims to include a minimum sanction that a court is allowed to enforce as a maximum tariff on a person convicted for one of the above offences.
in writing. - after extensive trilogues, an agreement was reached allocating eur 6.3 billion to the european maritime and fisheries fund order to be used for boosting maritime activity and fisheries activities across the eu. the fund aims in addition to boost innovation, diversification of isolated fishing communities, and to finance projects that will create new jobs. i voted in favour, hoping that this fund will eventually raise the standard of living by pushing towards successful implementation of the common fishery policy across the eu and to the coastal regions of the continent.
i would like to congratulate the greek prime minister on the achievements made in the face of such difficulties, even though, admittedly, mistakes have been made along the way. but let me just focus on one point which also concerns the wider region of the south-eastern mediterranean: the issue of threats and the issue of maritime security, which is of course linked to energy and concerns the whole of the european union. i therefore believe that the small states that we are members of the european union look to the european union for support in order to be able to exercise our sovereign right to exploit our exclusive economic zone in the interests of our peoples and in the interests of the european union itself. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is a party to the treaty of rome. (the president cut the speaker off) )
mr president, mr prime minister, during the greek presidency, the turkish foreign minister, in the context of the turkish association council, handed over to foreign minister venizelos a 64 page document stating that the republic of cyprus, a member state of the european union, no longer exists, is 'clinically dead'. what was the european union's solidarity with a member state considered 'clinically dead' by a candidate country? and how did the greek presidency react when turkey, in defiance of all legal sense, asked for the title 'greek cypriot administration' to be inscribed on the passports of those applying to enter turkey?
mr president, i would like to emphasize that the greek presidency has achieved these important achievements, especially in the area of banking union and industrial relations, at a time when the country is in a very difficult situation and in an election period. this shows that he stood firmly and disciplinedly against populism. but the election result also confirms this principle, namely that if all of us europeans who want to go ahead with the major reforms for another europe, a europe of european integration, we must indeed remain firm against populism. congratulations, mr prime minister! you are a great man.
mr president, i would like to say first of all, with all due respect, that you have made a rather poor use of your time and i hope that you will not now exhaust your justice to those who have only one minute. mr president, i think that you have said very nice things and i want to congratulate you sincerely. but at the same time i believe - and i have heard too many speeches in this parliament - that nobody knows, and you have not convinced me that you know how what you have said will be put into practice. you do not know whether you can - and even if you do you cannot - find the money needed to create growth in the european union. that is the problem with europe, and i agree with you that there is boredom and fatigue. but beyond words you must tell us how we can achieve growth in europe, how we can give money to the south, how we can reverse the welfare state, how we can have a health system and an education system for all european citizens, equitable and capable, which is what we deserve. the european union-turkey association council took the view that full and non-discriminatory application of the additional protocol would be ..... to convince italy to implement its obligations. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i will not talk about the numbers. they're well-known. but behind the numbers there is a huge human pain of misery and despair. and cyprus is a small member state of the european union with enormous human suffering because of unemployment and the resulting disaster. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken the necessary steps to ensure that the directive is implemented. i therefore make the following observations: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. secondly, without this, any measures will lead to the recycling of the unemployed and we will be here in a year or two to talk about the new social phenomenon of the recycling of the unemployed. i would like to conclude by saying that the combination of market power and state support and intervention can provide a solution to the problem. i would ask the commissioner to give us concrete proposals which combine this with the possibility for the member states to shape the individual issues.
madam president, the situation in iraq is not just dangerous, it is tragic. and it's not just about iraq, it's about syria, it's about egypt, it's about libya. it turns out that the policies that were followed were all wrong. it is not by chance that only tunisia has been brought to order in the region. at the moment there is a destabilizing regime and unfortunately we see that the arab spring has turned into a deep arab winter. we have had far more loss of life in recent times and far worse forms of oppression and human rights violations. the answer must be a comprehensive one on the part of europe. the european union must have a common foreign policy based on facts and not on wishful thinking.
madam president, allow me to bring something different but greatly related to our discussion. the alarming situation in iraq and the middle east would imply tremendous geopolitical changes including even changes to borders. the eu and the international community have been unable to engage in the wider region in a constructive manner. all these events could further hamper the european union’s security in general and its energy security in particular. it is high time the european union’s energy supply was rethought. it is time to seek safer energy routes from stable countries and partners. i recall in this sense the vast energy forces in the eastern mediterranean. swift exploration of these resources would clearly benefit our continent and the eu could and should be at the forefront of this effort.
madam president, mohammed malake, 17 months old, raneem judeh abdel ghafour, 17 months old, abdallah ramadan abu ghazal, 5 years old, an endless list of over 190 palestinians who are dead today, children, women, the elderly, the disabled, who had a name, a family, a home, a future. eight families have gone missing in all. 160,000 newly displaced, 395,000 with minimal water supply. three hospitals have been hit, over a thousand homes have been destroyed. what else does the newly elected parliament expect when war crimes are being committed before its eyes? what more is the european union and mrs ashton waiting for in order to condemn israel's aggressive policy? can anyone hear the protests in the streets of european cities and even in the cities of israel itself? it is a disgrace for the european union and the world to accept impunity for the unremitting violations of international humanitarian law and the human rights of an entire people subject to the logic of punishment. we support the request of the palestinian president and call on the un to place palestine under international protection to stop once and for all the bloodshed of this people. if the european union respects its principles and declarations, it should suspend the association agreement until israel stops violating article 2 which clearly states israel's obligation to respect human rights. we, the united left group, want peace for the palestinian people, the israeli people, all the peoples of the middle east. for us, peace means freedom for palestine. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer "blue card". but you don't say if there are any casualties from these attacks. we condemn all acts of terrorism, but above all we condemn the state terrorism of israel, which murders civilians and children.
mr president, i think that only those who are really politically shortsighted could not see that pushing ukraine into a turmoil, into a tendency to attach to western mechanisms and the european union would lead to nothing but the annexation of crimea by russia. as harsh as it sounds, i repeat, only the politically shortsighted would not be able to see it. and unfortunately, even between this parliament and the council, there seem to be people who have thought that they could act as the european union, as a great empire that can play a role in changing the structures of the world. i believe that the european union should work towards democracy and freedom and not play a role that replaces old imperial tendencies. we're in the middle of a ceasefire. in order to sustain it and to bring about peace, we must see how to contain the issue of sanctions. this is real politics.
i can only welcome, commissioner, the strong commitment of many of the members who spoke today to the need to apply international human rights law and the self-determination of peoples, both in relation to the present challenge and in relation to possible future challenges to the baltic republics, for example. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union has been occupied by a country for 40 years and we, instead of punishing it, instead of imposing sanctions on it as we should and as we are doing today in russia, are indulging it, with the result that the prime minister of that country is now illegally in my country, in occupied cyprus, and you should know that we have bred this monster with the policy of two measures and two stations.
madam president, horizon 2020 can be a very important research and innovation programme that supports small and mediumsized enterprises and promotes new jobs and social development. however, access to finance has so far proved to be very difficult, particularly for smes. the synergies between the academic community and the private sector that are fostered by the programme often turn research into a tool of large multinational companies, which is developed on the basis of their own needs and interests rather than the interests of society. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. instead of cutting the funds for militarization and for the european union's interventions around the world, we are choosing to cut the funds that can be used for young people, for ensuring stable and regulated work, for supporting secondary education and the right to work. as a gue/ngl group we cannot agree. the european union must and must invest in research and innovation, in jobs, and also in social development.
mr president, the intention and methods of the fanatical islamists to create a world caliphate - the state of terror as it has been characteristically called - have been known for a very long time and fanatical muslims are not born but are created through their attendance at islamic schools, in the clergy, through the brainwashing they have been subjected to for a long time. unfortunately, no deterrent measures were taken. the international community's reaction was based on very bad and amateurish assessments and an underestimation of the islamic threat. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of democratization, and it is not only the european parliament that has been involved in the process of democratization, but also the european parliament, which has been involved in the process of democratization. the classic examples of wrong practices are the murderous wars in afghanistan, iraq, libya, which have brought neither security, stability nor peace. i do not believe that the equipment of the various groups will be effective unless it is accompanied by other measures. the much-hyped turkish islamic model has proven to be especially dangerous and already reveals - cnn reported the other day - the possible role of turkey and qatar in financing isis. the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept it. it is in europe itself, mr president, because the muslim population in cyprus has already increased dramatically. mr erdoğan calls on the local authorities to allow muslim immigrants, that is, settlers, to arrive unhindered in occupied cyprus and the islamic schools, the islamic clergy, the brainwashing of young children are constantly sprouting like mushrooms.
mr president, the crisis in iraq and syria has reached an impasse and we cannot afford to sit idly by. coordinated action is needed to counter the islamic state the greatest threat to civilized humanity. we must react effectively and deliberately to avoid past mistakes, taking into account the specificities of the region and the racial and religious characteristics of the population. generalised approaches and prescriptions lead to fatal mistakes, as was the case with the so-called arab spring. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a party to the conflict in syria. the european union has a duty to help the people of europe to find a way to live in peace and security. we must immediately re-establish our priorities and not rule out, even in advance, temporary toleration of the assad regime in the face of the major danger, the barbarity of the islamic state. at the same time, the states which support it must be isolated. extremists and blind terrorism must be fought like a cancer that must be eradicated along with the entire network.
in writing. i condemn any intervention that infringes the territorial integrity of the state. i voted against this resolution because the sanctions policy has not led to an easing of the crisis. on the contrary, eu member countries are being hit economically and commercially by the continuing and growing sanctions. the cold war climate in eu-russia relations affects us first and foremost, and that is why we must find a window of dialogue and cooperation with moscow. the policies imposed by the united states must not be accepted, as they create more tension and have a clear impact on the economies of the eu member states and on the eu's relations with russia. it is a great hypocrisy for the eu to react directly to the case of ukraine, but not to my country, cyprus, which has been under occupation for 40 years, or to palestine. in these cases, the eu has not been quick to impose sanctions either for the crimes committed and those which are still being committed, or for the violation of international law and human rights. is eu policy a policy of double standards? the eu must develop initiatives to defuse the crisis rather than acting as a destabilising and divisive factor.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the need to strengthen energy security is primarily due to the fact that energy is a basic human good to which everyone must have equal access. the european union must not be a subject of competition that develops into economic or military wars, but must serve the peace and the peoples of europe. the european council will have to confirm the obvious in this respect. the european council must also denounce turkey's provocative actions and prevent the illegal directive of the turkish foreign ministry, which came into force on 20 october, illegally seizing areas south of cyprus, thus violating the sovereign rights of the republic of cyprus, as well as the rights of the european company, eeni, which is currently carrying out exploratory drilling within the cypriot eez. we recall that these are sovereign rights of a un member state and of the european union, which are guaranteed by the law of the sea treaty and delimited by neighbouring states. we call on the european council to show its solidarity with a member state under threat. what is the value of the solidarity clause when some people are deaf to threats from a country which is on its way to joining the european union? the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. let me also stress that it is unacceptable that parliament is not discussing today turkey's aggressive and illegal attitude towards the member state, despite the efforts made by my group, the gue/ngl.
mr president, we are discussing energy security for the european union in the light of events such as those in ukraine and russia. as we speak, a potential new conflict is unfolding in the eastern mediterranean. i am speaking as a member of the european parliament who is concerned about the interests of the european union and its energy security. turkey, a state which wants to join the european union, has sent its own warships to the area which challenge the exclusive economic zone of the republic of cyprus, which has been established on the basis of the law of the sea. there's a model for the whole world. four states, lebanon, israel, egypt and cyprus have regulated their exclusive economic zone and this can be a model for the rest of the world. i think we must therefore discuss this matter and look at it in the context of our common interests and the solidarity and principles that unite us.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, mr juncker, ladies and gentlemen, the gue/ngl has expressed serious reservations about all the hearings of the new commissioners. the reason is political. the juncker programme positions that our new commissioners are called upon to adopt are in stark contrast, as they reflect the new commission's commitment to the neo-liberal policies that have been followed up to now and which have led to the process of de-industrialisation of the european south, to the further increase in unemployment, particularly among young people, to the deregulation of labour, to the shrinking of the welfare state, to impoverishment, to the suffocation of small and medium-sized enterprises, to the memoranda and to harsh austerity. some of the commissioners, like mr cañete, have conflicting interests with the portfolio they are taking on. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the end, however, they kept the same portfolios, despite the harsh criticism and the negative climate against them. as gue/ngl we condemn this fact which proves that the new commission is the product of a bargain between the epp, the social democrats and the liberals, the product of a practice which tends to ridicule the decision-making processes of the european union. the european union, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, needs a change of direction, with policies that create new jobs and safeguard the welfare state. the solution to the crisis lies in strategies to boost economic and social development, not in austerity policies. we cannot and will not stand idly by and continue these policies. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one.
mr president, the islamic state attack on kobani is a gradual evolution of the united states intervention in iraq. it is also a gradual development of the attempt by the united states and turkey to impose their own views on the syrian issue. today, all of them are called upon to face what they have created. it is for this reason that the kurds have become the symbol of resistance. in this context, turkey, fearing a larger kurdistan, boasts that it does not understand what it should do, while at the same time, instead of reducing to zero, as it claims, its problems with its neighbours, it multiplies them. instead of pursuing what it claims, it is embarking on new adventures by sending its ships to investigate the exclusive economic zone of cyprus, in violation of every principle of international law. we stand with the kurds and call on the european union to help implement this right with respect for human rights and the decisions of the united nations.
mr president, the islamic state is a mortal threat to the democratic world as a whole, and the battle of civilized humanity is being fought in kobani at this moment. the ideals of the free world are defended by kurdish fighters, in whose continuing liberation struggle i had the honour of taking part and actively supporting them as a doctor. the kurds are fighting the islamic state and we stand in silence at the brutality of the islamists, the bravery of the defenders of kobani and our own apathy. mr pettella told us today that the lack of courage of our leaders is europe's greatest enemy. i couldn't agree more. it is precisely this lack of courage that has allowed the hatching of dictatorships and fanatical religious resentment, the abandonment of defenseless populations, the abandonment of kobani. it's a series of bad choices that led to today's deadlock. i find it surprising, however, that many people expect that turkey, which has oppressed the cypriots and the kurds for years, occupies half of cyprus and has wiped six thousand kurdish villages off the map, will fight those who are fighting its worst enemies, the kurds and the assad regime. i am honoured that the european parliament is discussing the kobani issue. and i have spoken many times about the islamic dangers that are already inside the european union and of course cyprus is at the heart of the crisis and from its territory the allied planes are hitting the fanatical islamists. but unfortunately the conference of presidents did not agree to discuss the military operation of the turkish navy to occupy the waters of cyprus. cyprus, a member state since 2004, which joined the european union with the aim of ridding its territory of the occupation and solving the problem on the basis of our principles and values, is watching the european parliament turn a blind eye and tolerate the violation of international law. similar mistakes were made in other cases. we must support the syrian refugees and the defenders of kobani. but we must also support cyprus, which is not only being verbally attacked and threatened, but is under full-scale attack by the turkish fleet, which is brutally violating the european acquis and international law. the hypocrisy and cowardice of our leaders must stop. the cypriot people are deeply disappointed and are forced to look elsewhere for a credible response.
mr president, the situation in kobani continues to be extremely dangerous. the kurds continue to fight with all available means against the jihadists, setting a global example of resistance and militancy. we must help them in practice and not just with leaflets. the islamic state, on the other hand, continues its horrific campaign. the mechanisms for controlling the feed-back and support of the jihadists must be identified. the network and those who support it must be isolated from the international community. really, who's arming them? who is giving them the financial support to maintain their network? it is not only turkey that is taking this unacceptable and hypocritical stance and creating further problems on the european borders within the cyprus exclusive economic zone, but there are other forces which refuse to take on their own responsibilities in practice. the fight of the kurdish people is a fight of global legitimacy and the international community. the least we can do is stand by them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the same is true in cyprus. the troika together with the cypriot government are trying to impose on the cypriot people legislation which will lead to mass confiscations of very small homes and commercial premises, thus leading to the dissolution of small and mediumsized enterprises and the creation of a homeless society. we believe that the foreclosure law should target the big debtors, but also protect vulnerable families and small businesses. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament's right to vote is respected, and that the european parliament's right to vote is respected. but the troika and the government are sticking to their own claims. they are blackmailing us that if we do not accept what they have agreed then the european stability mechanism tranche will not be disbursed. in blackmailing, they seek to sacrifice the human right to housing on the altar of supposedly bank bailouts of the barbaric memorandum austerity policies. we demand an end to the analgesia, we ask the european parliament to play its part.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the problem is turkey, which illegally occupies, by force of arms, the territory of the republic of cyprus and is now trying to occupy the seas of the republic of cyprus. the turkish actions have been condemned as illegal by the united nations, by the council of europe, by the european courts, as you said a moment ago, by the commission, by the council. turkey does not understand appeals, commissioner. it is not possible to make appeals at a time when the other is sending its battleships and submarines into the waters of cyprus. what we are asking for is that turkey be condemned and that practical measures be taken against it, economic and political sanctions, and that the accession talks be suspended in accordance with the declaration of 21 september, to which the european union and the european parliament are committed. turkey is erecting a wall worse than the berlin wall and dividing the people of cyprus in two and dividing the territories of cyprus in two. we must recognize this reality and help the republic of cyprus, stand in solidarity with the republic of cyprus at this time when it cannot face the force of arms. weapons do not create justice, commissioner. guns only enforce illegality. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
answer to a question with a blue card. mr president, i will not say that mr van orden is provocative, but i would like to believe that he is ignorant. so i'd like to ask you: have you read the agreement between christofias and talat that states that these reserves belong to the republic of cyprus, which will be federal after the dissolution? you also know about the agreement between christofias and eroglus, which you defend vigorously - but it is a bipartite agreement - which also determines the way in which the shares are to be distributed, i.e. in percentage terms. in any case, when one is a member of the european parliament one must have read before one is allowed to speak.
blue-card question. – mr van orden, you quite often blame the greek cypriots because they rejected the annan plan in 2004 and you did it again, indirectly, today. do you know that the turkish cypriots rejected the annan plan also – and not only the greek cypriots? it was the settlers who were brought from turkey who voted in favour of the annan plan.
mr president, a few hours ago we celebrated the fall of the berlin wall. but today, as we speak, there is a wall in the european union erected by the turkish army, dividing a people, a cyprus, greek cypriots and turkish cypriots in the same state. the republic of cyprus is seeking to remove this wall by peaceful means and looks forward to our family here in the european union, to the rule of law. on the basis of this law of the sea, which is part of the community acquis and international law, the republic of cyprus has agreed with all the neighbouring countries, egypt, lebanon and israel, to separate the exclusive economic zone for the purpose of natural gas, which offers the prospect of energy security in the european union. the resolution sets out the facts with a clear message to erdogan's turkey to stop all its illegal actions within the cypriot eez, as required by the rules of european union law. the european union cannot function without respect for such basic rules, and turkey is finally taking the step and is... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, commissioner, the move by turkey to issue the illegal navtex directive within the exclusive economic zone of the republic of cyprus, that is to say within the european borders, is a violation of international law. are there rules of law or not? finally, the interests of the european union prevail and we turn a blind eye? how can the european union allow a candidate country to play and mock it in this way? we want turkey to be part of the european union, but it cannot turn its back on the values and principles of the union. it is a candidate country which demands the approval and consent of all of us to continue the process: i mean, if he didn't claim it, what actions would he have taken? how far could it go, how can we leave turkey without sanctions, a country which is distancing itself from european institutions through its own responsibility?
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, this review of the existing regulation regarding the ecb’s powers to impose sanctions on undertakings for failure to comply with regulations and decisions was made in order for the ecb’s tasks to be in line with the single supervisory mechanism regulation. the scope of the ecb’s powers to impose sanctions was extended in order to establish a coherent regime for the imposition by the ecb of all administrative penalties relating to the performance of its supervisory tasks. in this aspect, in the committee on economic and monetary affairs our proposal to the council aims to improve the text concerning several points, including the following three: firstly, it emphasises that the ecb shall act based on equal treatment of credit institutions and without any discrimination against any member state; secondly, it specifies that the period to impose penalties starts to run from the date on which the decision was taken to initiate infringement procedures, rather than the date on which the infringement occurred; and thirdly, it ensures transparency by publishing the decision without undue delay, with a possibility to delay publication until three years after the date on which the decision was taken in the event that immediate publication would jeopardise the stability of financial markets. at this point i would like to raise our great concern regarding the ppe’s amendment introducing a broader derogation which allows delaying, in an open-ended manner, the publication of the decisions imposing penalties with the phrase ‘until all legal means of appeal have been exhausted’. this wording is in contradiction with the transparency principle. we strongly believe that there could have been a way to have a balanced phrase servicing transparency and fairness.
mr president, the decision of more and more states to recognise the palestinian state sends a positive message of support for peace and support for the struggle of the palestinians against the occupation. unfortunately, the political groups of the epp and the conservatives did not allow the same message to be sent from the european parliament, as they voted against the right of meps to adopt a resolution calling for the recognition of the palestinian state. the european parliament has a duty to support the struggle for the creation of an independent, viable and sovereign palestinian state, within the 1967 borders, with east jerusalem as its capital, a state whose course will be decided by its people, a state that will exist in peace and security alongside israel. the situation in the region is becoming increasingly dangerous. the logic on which the oslo accords of 1993 were based has unfortunately been blown up by israeli aggression and the expansion of settlements. secondly, many people try to convince us that this is a religious conflict between palestinians and israelis. but the facts prove otherwise. the occupation of territories seized by israel in war continues, the problem of the return of refugees remains unresolved, settlers are increasing, the wall that violates human rights is maintained, israeli attacks on the west bank and the gaza strip, which remains blockaded, continue. the gue group will continue to support efforts to recognise the palestinian state. we also expect the european parliament to join the solidarity movement in support of the palestinian people's struggle to end the occupation and for liberation and to support efforts to achieve lasting peace in the region.
in writing. - juncker and his commission should be censured. gue/ngl had proposed a motion of censure to the plenary which unfortunately did not succeed, as the greens and s&d refused to co-sign it, covering in this way juncker. we cannot vote in favour of the existing motion because it has been proposed by extreme right-wing forces which only want to take advantage of the climate that has been created around the scandal, without criticising the system junker represents. for this reason we abstain.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, commissioner, it is not enough to simply reaffirm our commitment to promoting euro-mediterranean cooperation in research and innovation. it has been said repeatedly during the cypriot, greek and now italian presidencies that this cooperation is very important, as it can act as a bridge of cooperation between countries and provide solutions to common challenges faced by both the member states of the european union and our partners. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european research area for the mediterranean is a very good one. however, the aim should be to promote projects which focus on the interests and needs of society and the people and not on the interests of multinationals. taking into account the specificities of each country, cooperation in research and innovation should aim to address important societal challenges to enhance social well-being. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them. it should also be ensured that euro-mediterranean cooperation in research and innovation is beneficial and efficient, as it is based on the principles of mutual interest, common benefit and respect for human rights. such cooperation is needed today more than ever. to this end, the commission should finance initiatives which will strengthen this cooperation, making a significant contribution to peaceful coexistence and at the same time promoting development with a social dimension, giving a boost to the real economy in the midst of an economic crisis.
mr president, commissioner, those of you who have travelled to cyprus by plane - there is no other way! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are protected, and that the european union's financial interests are protected. we believe that cyprus airways must be rescued and, with the rescue programme in place, we believe that the company can become profitable by 2017. there have certainly been instances of mismanagement, of mismanagement, but there have also been external factors, such as the economic crisis, which has hit both cyprus airways and cyprus much harder, and cyprus cannot currently tolerate any more unemployed people. in addition, the severe embargo imposed by turkey against cyprus and the illegal airports operated by turkey in cyprus are seriously affecting cyprus airways. the commission has recognised this and has agreed to give the republic of cyprus an amount as compensation each year to cyprus airways. but we think that's not fair. it must be cut off from turkey's pre-accession aid so that turkey can understand its foreign policy.
mr president, the commission's assessment is tentative and politically driven, in order to give the message of a complete success of the eight pieces of legislation without problems in the eurozone, thus justifying austerity and neoliberal policies. the ability of states to borrow on international markets is considered an achievement, but the stagnation of the european economy over the last seven years is not a concern. the reduction of budget deficits is also mentioned as an achievement, but there is no mention of the social cost of this policy. fundamental factors such as the recession, high unemployment rates, especially among young people, the impoverishment of the population and the extent of the gap between the centre and the periphery are absent from the commission's assessment. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. there is no democratic legitimacy to it. our goal is the dignity of human life. this means a strong welfare state, secure jobs and solidarity.
i, mr president, am addressing myself to the representatives of the european commission and to my colleagues. i'll start with a discovery: there is no gray; it's white or black. the vision of a common european home presupposes a common convergence in the economic standard of living of europeans. and the europeans are from one end to the other. i understand those who insist that the debts of one member state should not be transferred to the shoulders of another. i would like to stress, however, that in economics things are not zero-sum but additive. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i also stress to my colleagues that i do not expect much from those who want to break up the european union. i am disappointed, however, by those who say that we share the same vision of europe, but leave out european citizens or a part of european citizens, whether they are in the south or in the north. so we end up with country-specific recommendations, but we don't have country-specific medicine. and one specific example: we have a banking union but we do not have a common single deposit guarantee scheme. i hope that the commission will be able to give us a clear answer to this question.
i have read the commission's entire work programme and it really gave me a lot of wonder ment. i'm honestly surprised at the size of the deception. the new commission is presenting us with a programme based on the slogan that everything will change, that new things will happen and new policies will be introduced, but in reality everything is the same. i wonder if you have read the commission's previous programme, to see what i mean by 'things based on tried and tested failed policies, policies which have led europe and our countries into crisis and the peoples into poverty'. what is new is that your announcements about the 315 billion european fund for strategic investments are based purely on so-called leverage? isn't that in the same neoliberal political logic? the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens is a very good one. to provide a safe environment for investment groups and monopolies. and, more importantly, will there be a process to go through if this money is going to go to the small businesses? i would like to make one final point, mr president, if i may. i am very surprised that your socialists opposed you during the election campaign in order to support you during your presidency. if that wasn't a joke... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, mr juncker, you have drawn up ambitious investment plans for growth and it is necessary to proceed immediately and swiftly with their implementation, because the peoples of europe and especially the poor peoples of the south can no longer afford it. the economies of the member states are interdependent, while in some countries, which have been put on hard footing, societies remain suffering, homeless, hungry. private investment cannot be made without political and social stability and the inequalities that exist as a result of the loss of jobs and incomes of citizens are creating serious political problems, which are evident today in greece. cyprus, spain and portugal will also face serious economic and social problems. unemployment is rising and immigration is threatening. who would invest in a time of political instability? greece is facing a new political crisis and some are bringing up the issue of its exit from the eurozone, with repercussions for all economies. this is reflected in government bonds and stock markets. the impact will also be very serious in cyprus, which is also in a memorandum and will be very negatively affected. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to make a proper assessment of the budgetary situation.
the next european council must put pressure on turkey to stop violating international law and the sovereign rights of the member states, as is the case today with the attack on the exclusive economic zone of cyprus. it must also stop violating both human and democratic rights within itself, by arresting its opponents and silencing the press, and the sovereign rights of other states. unfortunately, instead, some member states are trying to promote turkey's opening up. the only thing that such actions can achieve is to encourage turkey to continue in the same illegal and undemocratic direction. those who really want turkey to make progress on its accession path must tell it that it must implement its contractual obligations, put an end to its threats and illegal actions immediately, respect human rights and cooperate in solving the cyprus problem.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the recognition of palestinian state as a principled step in the right direction. recognition of the palestinian state, its people and its borders, and the end of the occupation, is a long-overdue international obligation and a positive step towards peace. member states must now formally recognise and thus protect the space of the palestinian state on the 1967 borders, with east jerusalem as the capital. palestinian recognition is established in un resolutions and a number of national parliaments of eu member states have called on their respective governments to recognise. the palestinian people's right to self-determination has been enshrined in international resolutions for 66 years. we call on all parties to refrain from any action which may undermine the viability and the prospects of the two-state solution. therefore, settlements must end, the apartheid wall must be dismantled, and attacks on holy sites – along with the demolition of palestinian property – must stop immediately.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the recognition of the palestinian state as a principled step in the right direction. recognition of the palestinian state, its people and its borders and the end of the occupation is a long-overdue international obligation and a positive step towards peace. member states must now formally recognise and thus protect the space of the palestinian state on the 1967 borders with east jerusalem as the capital. palestinian recognition is established in un resolutions and a number of national parliaments of eu member states have called on their respective governments to recognise it. the palestinian people’s right to self-determination has been enshrined in international resolutions for 66 years. we call on all parties to refrain from any action which may undermine the viability and the prospects of the two-state solution. therefore, settlements must end, the apartheid wall must be dismantled and attacks on holy sites, along with the demolition of palestinian property, must stop immediately.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the problem we are discussing cannot be seen as an isolated one. there is something wrong with the kingdom of turkey and we must acknowledge it. so it's not just the recent arrests; it's not just the infringement of free speech. they're the ones running in gezi park; is the turkish station at kobani; is turkey's attitude towards the kurdish people; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in cyprus is not further worsened. is the attitude towards women and minorities; the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century. a stance that says our resolutions will be the scapegoat for the waste basket. we, as cypriot meps, are not at all happy about this. we want a democratic neighbour, a neighbour who respects human rights, his neighbours and the principles of international law. i am absolutely convinced that turkey must receive a clear and strong message from the european union; and a clear message means sanctions for her behavior. hugs and caresses won't help at all. they'll either figure out which way to go or they'll keep working. i am sure that without this measure, the sanctions measure, this debate and the possible resolution that will follow will go down the well-known road to the basket. clear message means sanctions but also honesty on our part about its accession process. i urge you to rein in this unfair behavior. i call on you to stand up to mr. erdogan's caliphate.
question of the day: blue card. mr. hökmark i have a very simple question for you: i am from cyprus, i am a european, a member of the european parliament and i come from the occupied part of cyprus. i ask you directly: the european union has also expressed its concern at the situation in cyprus, which is a country which is not a member of the european union, and has also expressed its concern at the situation in cyprus. would you tolerate all that he does? and so that there is no misunderstanding, i am the first to want turkey to have a european perspective so that we can survive. if that's a political vision for you, it's a matter of survival for us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
madam president, despite the illusions of some, turkey is not a democratic country. it systematically violates the human rights of millions of citizens and the freedom of the press is violated every day. in addition, turkey has military units in the republic of cyprus. the latest arrests of turkish journalists by the erdogan regime, which continue similar practices of the past, show that erdogan was serious when he said during the election campaign that he would "melt down" all those who opposed him. the other day he told us that europe should not interfere with his house. this is the turkey that nobody wants in the european union. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the economic trade with turkey is huge, but we must also defend our principles and values, which are being systematically violated by this country. the european union is not prepared to defend its principles and values in cyprus, as it is doing in ukraine and, as some have told us, in turkey, and will not be able to avoid decline.
turkey has shown us over the years that it knows how to do one thing correctly and does it consistently: to disregard all resolutions that are issued, to systematically and chronically violate human rights, not only inside turkey but also outside turkey, to cause problems, to be the troublemaker of the region, to have expansive and aggressive attitudes towards everyone. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. turkey does not understand resolutions and discussions. and if this debate does not produce sanctions and measures, which we as the european union must do first and foremost for our dignity, our credibility and our self-respect, know that it will be another debate among many others that we have had, and that will not produce any results. turkey has had the opportunity and the possibility in practice to prove that it has been pro-european for years and not only has it not done so but it is only taking the money of the european union, it is mocking the european union and mr erdogan is challenging us and telling us to do our job. yeah, the only way to do our job is one: today we must decide and call on europe to take action and impose economic sanctions. that's all turkey understands. otherwise, every couple of months we'll be here talking about the same things.
madam president, i wonder why we are pretending to be surprised by the attitude of turkey, a turkey which occupies half of cyprus, a turkey which persecutes the kurds, a turkey which deprives its own citizens of their basic democratic rights. the message from the european union must be clear: to join europe, it must be in harmony with the principles and values of the european union itself and not demand that europe submit to its own principles. and when we talk about turkey, we're talking about the erdogan regime, which is showing its neo-ottoman face in every way. we want turkey to be part of the european union, but with respect for democracy, european principles and values.
madam president, i understand that i shall be giving a brief analysis in one minute. in this european parliament there are two approaches: the first is that we should finally send a clear message to turkey by demanding specific things, and the other approach is that we should maintain contact with turkey by opening up some funds, by giving it space. but, ladies and gentlemen, and i am also addressing the commission, it is not so much what we think here that matters, but how this is interpreted by erdogan himself in turkey. the gestures, the good intentions, the handshake from us are interpreted as a reward from erdogan in front of his public opinion, that is, we systematically support an arbitrary regime. if that's what we want, let's say it. if not, we take the first option with a vengeance.
