i don't agree with us keeping a minute's silence for ariel sharon. he's responsible for the deaths of tens of thousands of palestinians.
for the s&d group. mr president, i would first of all like to thank all the colleagues with whom i have had the opportunity to work on this report. it's a really big deal. the fact that there are so few of us in this room does not reflect the seriousness of this matter. however, the optimism that my colleagues get is not mine. less than a year ago, in this very place, we held a discussion on the european union's strategic objectives for the cites conference in march 2013 in bangkok. and the situation was already very serious, we already knew about all the problems, that the problem was not just about the fate of individual animals, animal welfare, but that it was also a threat to the very conservation of the species involved, and sometimes they are iconic species, and even local ecosystems. and over the course of last year, 2013, we saw the situation deteriorate dramatically, escalate dramatically. transnational networks of organised crime have been involved in the illicit trade, and for those who do not think that the extinction of elephants, rhinos or other animals is important, i will put it another way: the financing of terrorism, corruption and organised crime in the european union. the situation is so critical that the un itself responded with a resolution in april 2013. we've heard the numbers, i won't repeat them, but they're appalling. there are dozens, hundreds of individuals, and entire species are endangered, because these numbers sometimes cover tens of percent of the existing populations of those biological species. europe needs to do more, and i wonder if the commission is planning to adopt specific legislation on online trade to regulate wildlife trade in the european union. that is very important and that is where we have, in my view, a weakness. i would also be very interested and would urge the commission to consider measures to prevent the possibility of importing non-living animal parts as souvenirs or hunting trophies being abused.
mr. chairman, it is only with the horse meat scandal and its scale that we can finally begin to effectively address the recurring problem of food quality and fraud in the food chain. we must put an end to the fraudulent labelling of products in the european union. the consumer must have clear and precise information on what the product is made of, where it comes from, what it contains. if the information is incorrect, there must be a genuine dissuasive sanction. enforcing the rules hasn't worked so well. i have repeatedly pointed out another consumer deception, namely the problem of dual quality of products in different countries of the european union. same packaging, but different composition, no clear distinction from the original. i ask only one thing: to investigate the evidence of consumer organizations and consumers themselves. there are too many incentives. unfortunately, the commission's answer has always been the same: if the safety of these products is good, then quality is relative, and in the case of food, it is a matter of taste and price preferences. it's just good that people are finally starting to talk about quality, not just food safety. unfortunately, it was only after consumer confidence was severely undermined. the steps to bring her back must be given the utmost attention. i'd like to thank the lady reporter and all the shadow reporters for an excellent report.
in writing. the report on the food crisis, food chain fraud and how to combat it concerns not only food policy but also, and especially, the eu's common agricultural policy. the big problem in the current food market is the uneven distribution of profits and risks. farmers and farmers as food producers face crop, weather or animal health risks every year. food producers buy from them at minimum prices. in the distribution process, the food chain is subject to price multiplication and the final customer will normally pay for the food 100 to 200% more than the purchase price. the report presented reflects the main problems in the food market and outlines possible effective solutions to the problems. for that reason, i believe it will be adopted as amended. if farmers receive fair and adequate prices for their products, they will not be dependent on the subsidy system and will be much more competitive themselves. competitiveness is also a key objective of the newly approved cap.
in writing. the member states of the european union have a high level of food safety and quality on a global scale. consumer confidence has declined significantly as a result of food fraud cases. in addition to the europe-wide cases of fraud involving the addition of horse meat to minced beef, other cases of fraud, often endangering the health of consumers, such as the addition of pharmacologically active substances to food supplements or the manipulation of the expiry date, are also occurring in individual member states. i welcome the european parliament's resolution calling for a stricter approach in the fight against food fraud. however, i believe that there is still room for expanding the range of tools to combat food fraud. not only are random checks required, as the resolution proposes, but also regular and frequent checks. the proposed sanctions of twice the estimated profit from the fraudulent food are, in my opinion, a certain improvement over the current situation. however, there is a legitimate concern that in some cases even these sanctions may not have a sufficient deterrent effect and that the application of criminal law should be considered.
mr president, i would like to congratulate ms grybauskaitė, her government and her country. madam president-in-office, as you mentioned, lithuania is a young democracy and a small country, but you have done a huge job very well: the huge task that lay ahead of you six months ago. it has been mentioned that 241 legislative acts were adopted. most importantly, you finished the work on the multiannual financial framework (mff) so that we have a budget. yes, many of us wish we had more money or that we had redirected money to different priorities, but we do have a budget for the next seven years. i participated in some of the negotiations, so i know well how difficult they were. lithuania organised the vilnius summit, and organised it well. some of our colleagues and others took the view that it was a failure. i am not of that view. it was clear from the beginning that we had to deal with six different countries: ok, they had all been under the soviet union, but they were, are and will be very different. on the one hand, for instance, we have belarus and, on the other, azerbaijan. for those countries who wanted to take up our offer of an association agreement or a deep and comprehensive trade agreement, they were initiated. the case of ukraine has, of course, been mentioned. ukraine will never be the same. in spite of this, we have to work towards the goal of not letting down the people in kiev and ukraine as a whole. we have to keep our offer open. madam president-in-office, your people and your country can be proud of your presidency. i congratulate you on it, and i also hope, as mr kelam mentioned, that by january next year your country will be the 19th member of the eurozone.
mr president, i would like to ask those who have praised the successes of the eastern partnership: what success are you talking about here when in reality this project is failing? ukraine did not sign the twelve hundred page agreement. as for armenia, it has opted for a partnership with russia, and azerbaijan is practically suspending work within the eastern partnership. so, since you're not talking to belarus, that leaves moldova and georgia. where is the success of the eastern partnership? in fact, the eastern partnership project is in ruins.
mr president, let me give you another example of cooperation, which concerns one of the 241 legislative strands that the lithuanian presidency dealt with. in the past six months, i have had the opportunity to work closely with the lithuanian presidency representatives as rapporteur for the committee on transport and tourism on the legislation on roadworthiness tests for commercial vehicles, which was part of a demanding package on vehicle technical competence in all its aspects. i would like to thank the representatives of the lithuanian presidency for transport for all the efforts they have made to reach a compromise, despite the pressure and reluctance to make concessions, especially from the large member states in the council. although this is the first presidency, as has been said many times here today, the lithuanian presidency has stood the test. madam president, allow me to congratulate your entire team.
mr president, the consumer programme 2014-2020 is one of the important instruments for strengthening the level of consumer protection in europe. for the european internal market to function properly and to stimulate economic growth, it needs informed consumers who trust the internal market. in particular, i welcome financial support for consumer organisations to cooperate and network to take joint action against unfair trading practices across the european union. experience has shown how coordinated cooperation between enforcement authorities and consumer associations is essential to combating infringements in the internal market. the role of independent consumer organisations is no less important in improving consumer education, information and awareness of their rights, especially in countries where consumer confidence is not yet sufficiently developed. ensuring adequate financial support is key to achieving these objectives. and, of course, i'd like to thank both the reporter and the shadow reporters for their work.
in writing. the updating of names, provisions relating to geographical indications, the need to maintain traditional quality practices and the need to provide consumers with adequate information are all part of this proposal. i believe that simplifying the current rules by incorporating new ones reflecting technological progress is the right way to develop regulations that reflect current requirements. as in some other cases, the replacement of the older regulation the existing one entered into force in 1991 is necessary and i therefore supported the proposal.
in writing. − unlike the us, the eu does not have a generally accepted definition of food fraud, as the eu's existing legislative framework focuses mainly on food safety. the only general guide can be found in regulation no 178/2002 laying down the general principles and requirements of food law, which provides that labelling, advertising, presentation and packaging must not mislead the consumer, but in practice the application of this provision varies widely between member states and the number of controls in this area is very low. as a result, a large proportion of food fraud goes undetected, especially where it has no public health or food safety implications. it is therefore difficult to establish the current extent of fraud in the eu food sector. therefore, legislation should be adopted within the eu to combat food fraud effectively and to protect consumers from being misled about the composition and properties of a product.
in writing. − as a member of parliament and as a doctor, i am keenly aware of the issues surrounding fraud in the food chain. i think it is necessary to recall in particular that these frauds involve matters where human health and, more specifically, human life may be at risk. this is a deception of the final consumer, whose confidence is then logically reduced. recent cases, such as the serious case of methyl alcohol, the deliberate substitution of horse meat for beef, or the presence of various excessive levels of residues in food, show the need to address this area carefully. as in other cases, the issue is not confined to one country but goes beyond borders. in this context, effective international cooperation, timely information and a focus on a well-functioning system of origin proof are all important. the proposal presented can help protect consumers.
in writing. cohesion policy funding is becoming increasingly important in a situation of increasing pressure on national, local and regional budgets. in addition, there is a need to spend money more efficiently so that citizens can fully benefit from funding from the european funds. it is therefore essential that member states and regions take the necessary steps to prepare partnership agreements and operational programmes so that they can start using the structural funds as soon as possible. the european parliament succeeded in achieving greater involvement of local and regional authorities and greater flexibility for the regions in setting priorities according to their own territorial needs. it is clear that member states are at very different stages of the preparation process, with some of them having already submitted to the commission draft partnership agreements and operational programmes. those that are currently showing delays, for example due to structural changes in operational programmes, new administrative structures and discussions on the concentration of thematic objectives, should intensify preparatory efforts to avoid unnecessary delays and delays.
in writing. − as about 40% of waste comes from packaging, it is appropriate to adapt the standards to the new production reality and bring them into line with the environmental obligations of other sectors while maintaining global competitiveness. the introduction of the target of 75% recycled plastic by 2020, mandatory recyclability criteria and specific labelling to facilitate sorting for this purpose should trigger a debate and encourage the introduction of more modern and efficient waste management systems. the funding of research and development into better methods of recycling, collection and sorting of waste should also contribute to ensuring that the set targets are met. the types of plastics that do not fit into this model, the plastics that are most harmful to the environment and human health, such as oxide-degradable and microdegradable plastics and single-use plastics, should be phased out.
in writing. in today's vote on the report on a european strategy to tackle plastic waste in the environment, i took the same position as the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. i believe that plastics are becoming more diverse and more widely used, and that disposal and recycling are not enough. approximately 40% of plastic waste comes from packaging, mainly from single-use products, resulting in significant waste accumulation and adverse environmental impacts. it's estimated that 80 million tons of plastic floats in the atlantic and pacific oceans, and it lasts for hundreds of years. this waste destroys marine life and causes toxic reactions that release into ecosystems and thus into the food chain, such as carcinogens and mutagens, reproductive toxicants, nanoparticles, etc. given that 95,5 billion plastic bags were placed on the eu market in 2010 alone, most of them single-use, i agree that plastic waste should be treated as a valuable resource. i agree to encourage its reuse, recycling and processing, which in turn will promote a healthy environment.
in writing. − the european union should create a european territorial quality label. this mark would be an umbrella mark applicable to all goods and services originating in territories involved in the global development process. it is primarily a matter of enriching the supply with a set of complementary and highly interrelated goods and services, also called a 'basket'. while the products that make up these baskets vary in quality and origin, services are more difficult to define and less codified; however, their potential to make shopping cart placement easier is considerable. examples are tourism, mobility, elements related to common heritage, trade or means of communication. it is also a specific offer, part of a certain history, part of a certain culture, which comes from the territory and cannot be replicated elsewhere. this irreplaceability and unrepeatability protects goods and services from external competition and represents a real development opportunity, especially for the most vulnerable rural areas. regional anchoring is therefore a crucial element in the composition of the baskets and the competitiveness of the individual territories. the demand for kosher goods and services is based on relationships of closeness and trust. it is manifested in direct sales, in city markets, in tourist stays, in visits, in hospitality or in social arrangements. it is also associated with quality, familiarity, knowledge and a general impression of the territory.
madam president, commissioner, allow me to draw attention to a practical problem in connection with the problem of access of goods and services from third countries to the internal market of the european union for public procurement. i come from hradec králové in eastern bohemia, where the company petrof has been making pianos since 1864, among other things. this company is the largest piano manufacturer in europe, by the way. when this company participates in our schools or philharmonic tenders to buy musical instruments, it faces competitive pressure from cheaper, usually chinese pianos. that would be fine, as long as there's no difference in import duties. when chinese companies import pianos into europe, they are subject to an import duty of 4%. when a czech company exports a piano to china, the duty is 17,5%. it is clear to everyone that in these conditions it is more or less pointless to open up markets and to compete. the issue of public procurement cannot therefore be considered in isolation, but only in the context of the revision of customs rules and other barriers to trade.
mr president, financial fraud has a significant negative impact on both the expenditure and revenue side, as has been emphasised many times by all the speakers here. i am so pleased that the european parliament has succeeded in pushing for a more detailed and precise evaluation of the effectiveness of the programme during the negotiation of the final version of the programme. the explanatory report to the draft regulation offered four options for the future operation of this financial instrument. of these, i support motion no 2 which calls for the adoption of a new regulation and the establishment of the hercule iii programme. i also welcome the proposed simplification of the system of drawing up the funds, which often represents a disproportionate administrative burden for all participants. i also consider the daily and annual information obligation of the commission and the mandatory mid-term evaluation of the programme until the end of 2017 to be significant. on the basis of these results, individual measures may be reviewed in order to best contribute to the effective fight against fraud. perhaps, given the fact that we're facing a highly skilled group of con men, we may be preparing the hercule iv program.
mr president, first of all i would like to wish the greek presidency every success in the next six months. it's not gonna be an easy few months. one of the key points for discussion must be the discussion of energy systems. whether it's power generation, the transmission grid, or the supply of energy resources like gas and oil. the current trend of diverging price developments between europe and the us is indeed alarming. the price of power is a barrier to the construction of new generation capacity. so we're going back to producing electricity predominantly from coal plants, and that's not, in my opinion, a good direction in principle. the emergence of huge wind power capacity in northern europe and the installation of photovoltaic sources dispersed without any logic creates a huge pressure for new investments in the transmission system. and we know that new transmission systems take a long time to implement. i would therefore like to call on the greek presidency to give priority to energy, in particular to the subjects you have on your agenda. further progress in the liberalisation of the internal energy market is absolutely essential today.
in writing. i voted in favour of renewing the agreement on scientific and technical cooperation with russia for the following reasons. in the current atmosphere of post-vilnius mistrust and efforts to rediscover a common language between brussels and moscow, the eu's unequivocal decision to renew the agreement will act as a concrete and tangible positive signal. i hope that it will also play its part in speeding up the negotiations with russia on visa facilitation, as stated in the conclusions of the ep's foreign affairs committee. it also states that cooperation with russia in the field of science and technology is one of the most dynamic in the whole range of mutual cooperation. implementation results to date show considerable success, despite the relatively limited amount of budgeted funds. in the future, i would like to see this important component of the joint effort to promote the economic competitiveness of both the eu and russia have a budget commensurate with its importance.
in writing. i welcome the final agreement on new road transport rules, which are designed to make fraud more difficult, to contribute to better social enforcement, to reduce the administrative burden on businesses and to increase road safety, by using new technologies such as smart tachographs. tachographs check compliance with minimum rest periods for drivers, helping to prevent serious traffic accidents, as fatigue among heavy goods vehicle and bus drivers is behind a number of tragic traffic accidents. one recent example is the serious 2012 czech bus accident in croatia, which was probably caused by the driver's micro-sleep. i consider it important that the resulting agreement incorporates the european parliament's requirement that the cost of introducing new equipment be kept as low as possible for transport undertakings and professional drivers. the agreement also ensures the protection of drivers' data and privacy and allows for a sufficient transitional period for their implementation. intelligent tachographs are to be introduced on the market from 2018 and should replace existing digital and analogue tachographs within 15 years.
in writing. - i think that honey is perceived by the general population as a natural, healthy product. if, as a result of the regulation adopted, honey is labelled as containing genetically modified pollen as an ingredient, then the reputation of honey as a natural product will clearly be affected. where pollen is labelled as an ingredient, consumers may believe that pollen is a separate product that has been added to honey, when this is not the case. including pollen as an ingredient would significantly increase the cost of the tests that need to be carried out to obtain the data needed for the labelling. these costs can have a significant impact and may exceed the existing production costs of the hive. their impact will be different for amateur and professional beekeepers who produce large quantities of honey and, due to the benefits of scale, can easily handle this burden, so that the change will be felt by many more beekeepers who produce small quantities. it is possible that some amateur beekeepers will end their activity as a result. on the other hand, the increase in production costs due to the additional tests will cause an increase in the retail price, which will not be good news for the consumer.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, 2013 was a very good year for the western balkans. croatia is in the union. huge progress was made in relations between belgrade and pristina, which is reflected in today’s report. so we can see progress in most of the countries in the western balkans. now i would like to turn to the greek presidency. as has been mentioned, greece has always been in favour of enlargement. i would like to urge the greek presidency – the greek government – to do its utmost to move forward as far as the main issue with skopje is concerned. please try to ensure that this issue is solved, so that we can also see skopje moving on the same path as belgrade and croatia. in other words, so that fyrom – the former yugoslav republic of macedonia – can also start negotiations.
in writing. the new icelandic government suspended negotiations on iceland's accession to the european union in august 2013. the rapporteur stresses in the resolution that iceland is still considered a suitable candidate for the eu and that the european union remains willing to continue the negotiation process. it also stresses the need for an early referendum in iceland, which the government has announced, with the referendum being a condition for the continuation of the negotiation process. no date has been set for the referendum. i'm sorry the negotiations were suspended. i also think that iceland is a country with a long democratic tradition and that this was a decision that we should accept. however, i am optimistic that the notified referendum will be held in favour of iceland's eu accession and that the negotiations will continue. in my view, it is more important that the referendum be well prepared than that it be held hastily and without preparation. i am of course in favour of iceland joining the european union, but i think that we must respect the decision of the state in the democratic environment of the eu and give iceland the time it needs to take the next steps in its decision.
in writing. - we rarely get a draft resolution which summarises - albeit in a haphazard way - so many tasks for the candidate country that we would be happy to see them fulfilled at home. what some member states of the european union would like to see if their tax collection were 'improved and (the institutions) applied a responsible fiscal policy' (point 39). the call for 'competent authorities to make every effort to minimise the adverse effects of economic policies such as poverty, unemployment and social exclusion' and 'to address and combat the root causes of these phenomena and to promote development' (paragraph 41) should be posted on the eu portal. what would the post-socialist countries of the union, including the czech republic, give for corruption in privatisation cases to be punished (paragraph 14) and for a 'complete list of public and state property' to be drawn up before restitutions, which would make it possible to 'put an end to its illegal acquisition for private interests' (paragraph 40). however, i would like to focus on the calls to the serbian authorities to address the problem of trauma caused by violence in the 1990s (paragraph 20). i consider this request to be very important. but to avoid accusations of hypocrisy, we should help the serbian authorities by starting to look at who was supplying weapons to the yugoslav battlefields from the european union and what was the background to the decision to bomb yugoslavia.
in writing. we are debating the resolution on kosovo again after almost a year, and once again i cannot help feeling that the text presented does not address the most serious problems in kosovo. if we are to show genuine concern for the people of kosovo, then, for example, the theme 'high unemployment, especially among young people' should not be stuck at the end of the resolution. the problem of kosovo's current economic situation also deserves more than just to be taken into account. in this context, i would like to stress the particular responsibility of those eu member states which took part in the bombing of yugoslavia in 1999. they should also ensure that the resolution does not contain such secrets as the wording requiring 'goodwill' and 'cooperation with the special committee of inquiry set up following the report of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe of december 2010'. i would remind you that the report by the swiss special rapporteur of the council of europe, dick marty, accused some kosovo politicians of organising kidnappings and organ trafficking. the resolution commends the agreement between pristina and belgrade. but i fear that they have been made under such strong external pressure that they have not only a questionable legal value but also limited possibilities of implementation. therefore, i cannot support the resolution which calls on those states which have not recognised kosovo as an independent state to do so (paragraph 13).
in writing. - i reject any proposals to artificially reduce the number of migrants who are eu citizens, as they are contrary to the principle of free movement of persons enshrined in the eu treaty. there is no doubt that labour mobility helps the competitiveness of the european economy. the commission and the member states should ensure the rigorous enforcement of union law in order to guarantee that all eu workers are treated equally and are not discriminated against in terms of access to employment, employment and working conditions, remuneration, dismissal and social and tax benefits. national authorities must vigorously combat any unjustified restrictions or obstacles to workers exercising their right to free movement, while at the same time combating all forms of exploitation of workers. member states shall not discriminate against eu migrant workers by falsely assuming that they intend to use their right to free movement for the purpose of work to obtain social benefits illegally. none of the member states making this claim has provided any evidence to support this claim.
mr president, this report aims to consolidate administration and simplify bureaucratic procedures, which is generally agreed. however, the draft regulation also contains certain ambiguous phrases which allow for different interpretations. this is very dangerous because it can reduce the credibility of documents issued by national authorities and also create a space for forgery and unwanted alteration of these documents. that is why i have also signed in support of the amendments by angelica niebler and alexandra thein. the proposals clarify the wording of the content of the regulation's scope, making it clear that it only concerns extracts from registers or certificates of identity, such as extracts from commercial registers or birth and death certificates, etc. the regulation must remove all doubt as to its application to documents other than extracts from registers. the law in this area is very complex and often produces extensive texts that require detailed study. and i say that as a lawyer. the draft regulation was also addressed by the chamber of notaries of the czech republic, which contacted me and pointed out the possible consequences of unclear wording. i therefore call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of a proposal which is truly worthy of its purpose, namely to facilitate the exchange of standardised information, that is to say, information from public documents issued by the authorities of the member states with relevant evidentiary value.
i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his constructive cooperation. i regard the report as a high-quality and objective assessment of the implementation of the unfair commercial practices directive. we agreed that the consumer protection provisions in the current directive are relatively well set and that the directive is beneficial for consumers. the main challenge to address remains the application of the directive and the enforcement of the rules at national and cross-border level. on behalf of the socialist and democratic group, i table for tomorrow's vote two amendments calling on the commission to coordinate with the member states the investigation of consumer goods sold outside the shop. according to the commission's first evaluation report on the application of the directive, the most frequent cases of aggressive practices against consumers are in particular in the sale of goods and services outside the premises. i believe that such an inquiry is not only necessary to strengthen the protection of consumers, especially vulnerable ones who are not able to face these unacceptable practices on their own, but also an opportunity for honest traders to differentiate themselves from those who are not.
madam president, the frequency with which the term 'smart grids' is used gives the misleading impression that the concept of smart grids is already practically solved. i would like to emphasize that to fully implement this concept would require solving the foundation, i.e. electricity storage, and investing huge funds in the physical implementation of such networks. the rapporteur's report is what i would rather call 'smart regional use of local renewable resources'. nevertheless, the rapporteur's efforts to protect personal data on consumer consumption, which is a very sensitive data, and to ensure the transparency of all data, must be appreciated. i do not agree with the rapporteur on the part of the report where she calls for more ambitious targets in climate protection. the smart grids concept should be discussed in the context of research into the as yet unfinished part of the concept, which concerns storage, and in the context of the huge investment resources required.
mr president, like most of you, i believe that the collective rights management institute is a suitable instrument for enforcing and protecting copyright in cases where it is not possible or appropriate to enforce or claim protection for copyright individually. i am also aware that national legislation on collective rights management varies widely between the member states of the european union, and the same applies to the application of such legislation in practice. given that collective rights managers also represent foreign rightholders on the basis of representation contracts, it seems logical to establish common framework rules in this area within the european union. however, the proposal under discussion raises some doubts as to whether it will contribute to the objective pursued, i.e. to facilitate the licensing of online uses of musical works for more than one territory. in my view, the text of the directive is in some parts unduly detailed, and on the contrary does not regulate certain aspects of collective management of rights, although they could be affected by the proposal. my country is one of the member states with very detailed regulations on collective rights management. however, the transposition of the directive will mean that the existing legislation will be made more specific. the problem i see is the additional cost of implementation. if the directive were to make it necessary to establish a mandatory body for the out-of-court settlement of disputes between collective management organisations and users, the cost of establishing and operating such a body would be estimated at several million kroner. the same applies to the part of the draft directive which provides for the existence of complaint handling procedures. the commission notes that the measures were granted in the form of a grant of eur [...] per year. that is not desirable from my point of view.
mr klaus-heiner lehne has been elected.
the vote is over.
in writing. i consider the commission's original proposal to be optimally balanced. the original proposal is a step in the right direction and will make life easier for many citizens, especially those who live or work in another member state or are in mixed marriages. i also find it very useful to introduce multilingual forms in matrix cases. if we are really serious about building the internal market, then the abolition of the legalization of public documents for use abroad is one of the inevitable steps. however, we are talking about the scope of this regulation. the commission's original proposal proposed that the regulation should cover documents proving the status of a person, documents relating to intellectual property and immovable property. i therefore do not consider it fortunate that the european parliament is proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to documents relating to tax matters, social security entitlements, civil and electoral rights, health, school attendance or even the signatures of a natural person. this extension can significantly weaken the positive effects of the regulation, exposing us to an increased risk of counterfeiting of those types of documents which do not have a fixed or prescribed form. this ultimately reduces the legal certainty of citizens. that is why i abstained.
in writing. in today's plenary session, i voted in favour of the compromise motion of five ep groups on the report by my colleague ulrike lunacek on the eu roadmap against homophobia and discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity. at first i thought the report was useless, since the rights of all eu citizens are guaranteed by the charter of rights and freedoms. an e-mail campaign with often false and even xenophobic views convinced me that discrimination against some citizens is still a reality. i have read the report carefully, the aim is not to promote homosexual propaganda, but to promote the reduction of discrimination and harassment of lgbt people in the european union. almost half (47%) of all lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people face discrimination and persecution on a daily basis because of their sexual orientation.
in writing. when i voted on mrs lunacek's report, i supported the position of our group, because i am fully convinced that all citizens of the european union have the right to protection against discrimination. given that almost half (47%) of all lgbt people have experienced discrimination in their own lifetime, it is our duty to correct these statistics. the purpose of this report is to encourage the commission to take greater action and to prepare proposals to reduce discrimination in employment, education, access to health care and services, freedom of assembly and movement, asylum and other areas. the concerns of conservative activists have been proven to be unfounded, as the report does not introduce a new category of rights for the group of people in question, but only guarantees them those already existing, but which are not always effectively enforceable. after all, there is no need to fear that others will be oppressed if minorities gain the rights that are the standard for others. nor do we need to fear a breach of the principle of subsidiarity, which article 5 of the report itself calls for.
colleagues, because we have a shortage of time and a lot of speakers asking for the floor, i would like to announce that the explanations of vote on the last report, by norica nicolai, will be given tomorrow after the vote. písemná vysvětlení hlasování
mr president, i was looking forward to the 2030 framework with great anticipation and i believe that the economic policy of the european union should be that its soul is industrial and its clothes should be ecological and social. unfortunately, that's not the case here. at a time when unemployment in the united states has fallen to 6.7%, the situation is still dramatic here, with only three countries below the level of the united states, namely austria, germany and luxembourg. i would like to say that none of the environmental goals that we have set for ourselves in recent years have been successful. and even in this area, we're lagging behind. i believe that what the commission has put forward is the 'emperor's new clothes'.
the debate is over. the vote will take place on wednesday 5 february 2014 at 12.00 noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the agenda includes a debate on the report by isabelle thomas, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1224/2009 establishing a community control system for ensuring compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy (com (2013) 009 c7-0019/2013 2013/0007 (cod)) (a7-0468/2013)
the report on compliance with the rules of the common european fisheries policy is the basis of the entire cfp system. it is essential that the eu has the legislative and other tools to enforce policies that we agree and approve. otherwise, the discussion, the negotiation and the subsequent approval have no meaning. only economically and environmentally balanced fishing, with the right fishing practices, can help to preserve fisheries and the current stock of fish species in a sustainable way for future generations. the massive movement of fish due to climate change is frequent and requires regular review of marine protected areas. their protection must be real and not just declaratory. i therefore call on the commission to do the same at regular intervals. it is also necessary to legislate to encourage fishing companies to use the best available gear currently available in terms of selectivity and to avoid massive catches of large numbers of undersized fish and non-target species or discards. i am here to speak out for sustainable fishing and the preservation of the sector as a livelihood for the future and against the continuing mass fishing of our seas and oceans. i welcome the report as a whole. i trust it will be accepted unchanged.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the marketing of products are harmonized. these are first reading texts negotiated in co-decision with the council. these directives put into practice the 2008 political agreement on the regulation of goods and at the same time respond to the new legislative framework resulting from the treaty of lisbon. these horizontal rules cover a wide range of products, from explosives for civil use to lifts, pressure vessels and the supply of meters to the european market. the work on this package, including the arduous multi-round negotiations with the european council and the commission, took the ep 2.5 years to complete. after consulting with experts and professional organisations, we incorporated hundreds of legal, technical and conceptual changes into the original design. the amendments are also based on experience in the field of consumer protection or conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises. in particular, the requirements for design, which will have to take into account the safety of foreseeable lay users, will be extended, product and instruction labelling will be made clearer, and the powers and reporting obligations of national supervisory authorities will be increased. member states will have to ensure adequate funding for the newly strengthened coordination of supervisory authorities across the eu. stricter and more precise rules for both importers and distributors, including more stringent sanctions for non-compliance with high european standards, will help reduce the occurrence of sometimes substandard products from third countries. the internal market surveillance of distance sales will be strengthened and administrative burdens for european producers will be reduced. the possibility of an electronic format for a number of administrative processes and documents in parallel will be introduced and, last but not least, the legal definition against misuse of the ce marking will be improved. the most controversial issue was the alignment of the rules with the new rules of the lisbon treaty on comitology, i.e. the commission's power to decide on minor changes in the expert teams without binding consultation of the ep and the member states. this is where the three institutions differed. the length of the meeting, which saw the participation of representatives of six presidencies in succession, did not make the situation any easier. finally, a solution was found in accordance with eu primary law. the position of the union institutions vis-à-vis the committees of experts will be laid down in a framework contract between the european parliament and the commission. our position will be stated in a statement by the european parliament tomorrow before the vote. i very much appreciate the support of the shadow rapporteurs, in particular mrs christel schaldemos, mrs heide rühle and mr malcolm harbour, chairman of the committee. i would also like to thank the representatives of the european commission and the council for their constructive approach and patience and for their support to the imco secretariat, to the staff of parliament's legal and linguistic services, and in particular to my assistant, dr jiří jírs, for his excellent professional work. together we have all succeeded in completing this horizontal legislation, which is an important milestone on the way to a better functioning and safer internal market, and so let me recommend that these directives be adopted as negotiated.
for the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, the european internal market must be characterised by a number of essential features. it must be transparent and understandable, it must guarantee legal certainty for firms, it must seek to remove unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles, but at the same time it must be able to guarantee and enforce a high level of consumer protection, and in particular consumer safety. that is how confidence in the internal market is built. the agreement reached on the revision of the harmonisation package of eight directives is moving the european internal market in the right direction in this respect. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur and all the shadow rapporteurs very much for their work. in particular, i welcome the provisions to ensure better product market surveillance in the event that products do not meet the required standards. the resulting proposal will provide member states with more effective tools to carry out market surveillance checks, thereby reducing the number of non-compliant products, and in particular dangerous products, on the market. i therefore agree with the rapporteur, mrs roith, in her concluding remarks that this is our next very concrete contribution to a better functioning and safer internal market.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we actually started discussing this package with the pyrotechnic directive, which we approved here last may, and we actually ran into a problem with the comitology there. the negotiations on technical matters continued as a thread. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet its obligations. we have to discuss the final directive on pressure vessels, which will hopefully be completed soon. the most serious thing, and the one that made it more difficult for us to adopt this package much earlier, was and is again comitology. if we are serious about wanting a better functioning of the internal market, a better functioning of the eu institutions, less bureaucracy, then it is absolutely essential that all three institutions communicate much more intensively, especially on technical matters. it is the experience of people on the ground that is most important for the improvement of european legislation. so let me express my doubts, in the light of common sense, as to the usefulness of such an exaggeration of competence in relation to the work of the various committees. i am grateful, however, that we have found a solution, that each of us has made a statement on behalf of his institution, and that we hope that within the framework of the institutions' rules of procedure we will be able to find some sensible solution for the future.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, air passengers' rights have been regulated for some time, but it was only about two years ago that their existence began to be promoted at airports. in order to claim the compensation contained in the draft regulation under discussion, passengers must lodge their claims with the airline concerned within three months, the latter must take note of the receipt of the claim within eight days and must communicate the result of the investigation within two months. the proposal for a regulation is a very acceptable compromise between the logical desire of airlines to avoid, if only to a certain extent, any compensation and liability and some of the extreme demands that have been raised by the passenger public. annex i to the regulation contains a list not exhaustive for the commissioner of circumstances considered to be exceptional. annex ii is in fact a simple user guide for the travelling public. as regards the new provisions of the regulation, they are in contrast to the previous 2004 regulation, which introduced changes in favour of passengers, such as the time limits, the possibility of carrying musical instruments on board, and the increased care for disabled persons, pregnant women and young children. a number of applicable terms are specified below. for connecting flights, it will not be possible in future to refuse a passenger who uses only part of the paid connection when boarding a flight at the start of a purchased package. the need for timely and complete information to passengers is emphasised. the proposal also provides a very detailed clarification of the much-debated question of prices. it is a balanced compromise that sets new standards in world aviation. the european commission has already released air passenger rights as a free app. just a note to the commissioner: in the czech republic, travel agencies are compulsorily insured against bankruptcy and prices have not changed substantially as a result, so please take note of that.
mr president, the current draft regulation on air passenger rights looks at air transport through the lens of the customer and so i think it is certainly the right step. the price of air tickets including basic services, the right to return if the first segment of the flight is not boarded, the reinforcement of information in case of delay of the plane and the clarification of the so-called emergency circumstances, are all things that i support. on the other hand, i must say that, despite the clearly positive intentions, the proposal is unclear or overly ambitious in some passages. i am not convinced that the consumer needs to be left in the lurch to the extent that airlines are forced to increase fares by excessive protectionism. this area of possible price increases and alignment with the national agreements at the level of the international civil aviation organisation still needs to be finalised.
commissioner, let me first of all thank rapporteur bach for the really good work he has done on this report, which is a significant step forward towards better enforcement of air passenger rights. the current situation is very difficult for the injured passengers and unfortunately only 2% of passengers who are entitled to compensation for cancelled or delayed flights actually get it. this is no doubt because passengers are still not very aware of their rights. i therefore welcome the fact that the report clarifies the current situation and raises awareness among passengers. i also think it is important that i have succeeded in getting the amendment to the final report to include passenger rights and important contacts on every ticket. i also thank the rapporteur for including in the report, contrary to the commission's original proposal, the right of passengers to reimbursement of expenses in the event of the insolvency or bankruptcy of an air carrier, something we have been working towards with other colleagues from the committee on transport since september 2009, in connection with the collapse of skyeurope and many others, which left thousands of passengers stranded at european airports. the report also obliges member states to allow passengers to use out-of-court dispute resolution mechanisms, which should help passengers to resolve disputes with air carriers more easily, quickly and without cost. for these reasons, i shall be very happy to support the final report in the vote.
in writing. in the past few years, the aviation industry has undergone significant changes linked to the increase in passenger numbers and flights in the liberalised european market. this development is generally positive, but to some extent it has led to the use of unfair practices and a decrease in the quality of services, which has negative consequences for passengers. operating air carriers do not automatically recognise the right of a given passenger. passengers must therefore apply individually to the large international companies for their rights. the rapporteur's proposals therefore usually concern the strengthening of passenger rights. the regulation should address the right to assistance and compensation for passengers whose flight has been significantly delayed. the rapporteur shares the commission's view that the time limits for exceeding which entitlement to aid or compensation should be the same for all intra-eu journeys, but for journeys to and from third countries they should depend on the distance travelled, in order to take account of the operational difficulties faced by air carriers in dealing with delays at remote airports. however, as rapporteur, i do not share the commission's view that all deadlines should be increased in order to reduce the financial impact on air carriers and minimise the risk of further flight cancellations. i also agree with the rapporteur that passengers need to be made more aware of their rights.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it concerns the opinion on the european parliament's position in the european commission's expert teams within the framework of comitology. declaration by the european parliament: the european parliament considers that only meetings at which implementing acts are discussed within the meaning of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 can be considered as meetings of committees under the committee procedure as defined in annex i to the framework agreement on relations between the european parliament and the european commission. therefore, point 15 of the framework agreement applies to meetings of committees dealing with other matters. i now recommend that this house adopt the eight directives as negotiated, as another important milestone on the road to improving the security and transparency of the european internal market.
the reporter. madam president, the debate did take place last night and everyone who took part in it understands why this statement is important to the ep. this is our competence, since the adoption of the treaty of lisbon, in the comitology committees.
mr president, ukraine is a deeply divided country. the only sensible and reasonable solution for overcoming these political, ethnic, linguistic and economic divisions is a dialogue between the president and the administration on one side, and the opposition – the protestors from maidan square and civil society – on the other. without a dialogue and without cooperation, i do not think that there will be a solution to the political crisis. it is, of course, up to the ukrainians, because ukraine is – and we stress this again – a free sovereign country. we do not want any interference from its eastern neighbours, but we have to help. cathy ashton is there today and, as the commissioner has said, he will be there next week. that is why in our resolution we strongly support our presence in kiev in order to help our neighbours to solve this crisis. what is also needed is a dialogue on financial and economic issues. without a dialogue, no matter who is in power and who takes over the government, they will have tremendous difficulties. there will be a financial and economic crisis, the ukrainian economy will collapse and hence there will be more problems, more conflicts, more chaos and – i am afraid – also more violence.
mr. chairman, they say the orange revolution cost $50 million. but with the current unrest in ukraine, it's not just a few tens of millions of dollars anymore, but the territorial integrity of the state is starting to be a problem. romania in one of its official diaries clearly claims some parts of the territory south of the northern moldovan-romanian border. it is apparently clear to the author that moldova will soon be part of romania, and logically he also claims the territory of today's odessa region and some parts north of today's moldovan-romanian border. according to the political group jobbik, the hungarians are beginning to claim a part of the subcarpathian arc between the slovak-romanian border, next to the southern part of the subcarpathian rus: they probably regret that they don't have any bears. the russian federation is of course interested not only in its own important black sea base in sevastopol, but also in important enterprises of the defense industry. if we consider that... (the president withdrew the floor.)
in writing. the crisis, now in its third month, has escalated in recent weeks, with tragic accidents and loss of life. the efforts of all parties concerned should be to ensure stability and security and to find a peaceful solution as soon as possible. russia, like the european union, must respect the sovereignty of ukraine and the will of its citizens. the eu's adequate role is to facilitate a constructive dialogue on political, financial and economic issues between the government, the opposition and the protesters. the only plan that can work sustainably has to come from the ukrainians themselves, not from brussels or moscow. in my view, it should include a democratic change of the constitution, early elections and a series of necessary medium- and long-term reforms. the door of europe must remain open for ukraine.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, it has already been said that we have common interests with russia. we are neighbours; russia is on the security council. as the situation in syria, in afghanistan and in iran, the nuclear issue, show, there is a need for cooperation. that is also the reason why we strive for a strategic partnership and for a vision of building a common economic space. as has already been said, we tried for years and years to bring russia into the wto. now, after a year of membership, we can see that russia is not living up to the commitments. when we look at our common neighbourhood, again we see unacceptable pressure on our common neighbours. it is right that all those issues were pointed out at the summit. yes, we want cooperation with russia, we want to be strategic partners, we want to move forward towards a comprehensive and ambitious new eu-russia agreement, but it has to be done on a basis of mutual trust. first of all, russia has to stick to its commitments and stick to the agreements it signed. then, from there, we can move forward. yes, the situation is not easy; the situation is difficult. we should be firm, but at the same time we should not lose sight of the vision and goal we have of a strategic partnership with russia.
madam president, i would like to ask commissioner füle whether international agreements on river flooding are binding or merely advisory. i ask because since 2006, the czech governments have stopped flooding rivers and instead have built bridges. i wonder if the funds allocated for this purpose are really being used properly.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the indication of the country of origin for fresh, chilled and frozen meat of swine, sheep, goats and poultry, which calls on the commission to revise the implementing regulation to include mandatory requirements for the labelling of unprocessed meat of swine, poultry, sheep and goats as regards the place of birth as well as the place of rearing and slaughter. the mandatory labelling should be in line with the existing legislation on the indication of origin of beef. i also think it is important to remove all exceptions for minced meat and cuts. one of the objectives of the regulation on the provision of food information to consumers is to prevent misleading information to consumers. the regulation also responds to the increased consumer demand for information on the origin of food. according to the european consumer organisation, 70% of consumers consider the origin of a product to be one of the main factors in their choice. the meat is the one that is most interested in information. legislation on detailed beef labelling has been in place for over 10 years and, also in view of recent fraud in the food chain, consumers are demanding detailed information for other types of meat. lastly, it should be recalled that the 'made in the eu' label has not yet won the trust of european consumers. i believe that consumers demand and have a right to clear and, above all, truthful information at first sight.
in writing. - we are debating a motion for a resolution which is an example of a double standard and the substitution of propaganda for analysis. i consider this approach harmful, because it gives informed eu citizens, but also our foreign partners, a feeling of utter unreliability of the union. can you trust someone who deliberately withholds, distorts, and fabricates facts and then draws from them conclusions that are sometimes even offensive? the problem with the motion for a resolution is the failure to admit error: at the beginning of the current chaos in ukraine, a summit in lithuania is poorly prepared by the negotiators and the responsible eu commissioners. more attention was paid to supporting the protesters in the independence square the demonstrations began before the summit, not after it, as the draft resolution suggests than to the proposed acceleration of the abolition of visa requirements or economic aid to ukraine at a time of stagnation and rising debt. i find it inappropriate that in ukraine there is a dispute between the people and the government. the ukrainian people are divided. if the euro-idealists win, we can expect another hundred thousand demonstrations in kiev by those who believe that closer economic ties between ukraine and russia would be more beneficial for the country. the fact that the majority of eu officials - whether in the commission or in parliament - see the ukrainian problems as a geopolitical struggle against russia only complicates the situation in ukraine. ukraine needs a compromise, not a one-sided war resolution. i can't vote for the resolution.
in writing. the proposed resolution can serve as a textbook example of a text based on ideological prejudice and self-interest rather than factual analysis. let me give you three small examples. according to recital f, 'president assad has repeatedly ignored countless calls from the international community to stop the terrible violence in syria'. i'd like to know how the authors of the bill define the international community, whether they include china and russia. i think they should also tell us how to stop the terrible violence by one side stopping fighting. similarly, paragraph 8 calls on 'president assad to recognize that the syrian people reject his regime'. who's the people? the tragedy of civil wars is that some people reject state leaders, while others support them. the resolution's authors state that 'syria is one of the few countries that has not yet signed the un convention on chemical weapons'. they seem to have been swept up in the anti-assad fervor: syria acceded to the chemical weapons convention on 14 september and has been a full party to the convention since 14 october last year (see http://www.opcw.org/about-opcw/member-states). the claim of the motion for a resolution that it welcomes the 'decision of the members of the syrian opposition to accept the principles of the geneva communiqué' shows a reprehensible ignorance. did all the armed opposition groups join the geneva talks? such a resolution, which is an embarrassment to the ep, will not get my support.
- the proposed resolution does not deal with the summit in question. it is a summary of all the media-grown scandals, problems or even crimes allegedly committed by the current political elite of russia against its people. it's no use going over it point by point, it doesn't deserve all this attention. let me just make two small points. the first is on the subject of 'before criticism from others, you must clear your own doorstep'. is vladimir putin responsible for all the deterioration in relations between the eu and russia? i would like to remind those who try to forget and make others forget that the break in relations between russia and the eu occurred as a result of the bombing of yugoslavia in 1999 (in which some member states also took part). then the forces that have won in moscow are those that advocate defending russia's national interests and do not rely on the west, even in the form of the eu, to do it for them. second point on "do not do unto your neighbor what you do not love". the eu has a whole range of shortcomings: from a democracy deficit to corruption of €120 billion a year to economic stagnation. but it also has a lot of positives. who would like to be talked about only when our shortcomings can be highlighted? is it true that no one can find a single positive phenomenon in present-day russia? so it should come as no surprise that russia is increasingly turning to asia.
for the group gue/ngl madam president, the nature and function of trade marks are evolving as fast as the world around us. trade marks have been the subject of increasing investment over time, and have become the focus of attention of advertising and marketing specialists. the media influence, the globalisation of markets and the importance of advertising shape the reality of trade marks in today's world. i therefore welcome the draft report which not only clarifies the name of trade marks as such but also extends their definition to at least approximate reality. the draft report proposes to harmonise the functioning of trade mark registration in the member states of the european union, while ensuring the complementarity of the european union with the member states' systems. this should be reflected in lower costs and fees, simplification and acceleration of the trademark registration process, and in particular in the legal certainty that is unfortunately currently lacking in the czech republic due to fraud in trademark registration. i'd like to thank the reporter for the hard work she's put in on both reports.
in writing. trademarks influence the everyday decisions of consumers. they create a product identity, they differentiate it from the competition, and the successful ones build consumer confidence in the product. one of the functions of a trade mark is to guarantee the origin of a product to the consumer by enabling him to distinguish it with certainty from a product of another origin. according to a 2012 commission study, medicines account for the highest share of goods detained by customs authorities, with a full quarter of ipr infringing products detained at the eu's external borders. in fact, everyday products and products that could be potentially dangerous to the health and safety of consumers accounted for almost a third of the total quantity of products seized. a review of the existing rules of the trade mark system is therefore necessary to combat counterfeits entering the eu internal market, in particular those that pose an immediate danger to the health and safety of european consumers.
today's debate on the european semester has shown that we need to focus on enhanced cooperation with other eu countries to overcome the crisis. we must continue to fight youth unemployment and unemployment in general. unemployment can only be eliminated by growth and increased investment in economic growth. but growth must be complemented by tools to reduce social inequality. these are tools such as job creation, protection of workers, improvement of the education system to enable young people to enter the labour market quickly. i believe that solidarity and cooperation between member states is also key here. this includes cooperation within the banking union and fiscal policy. i am therefore pleased that prime minister sobotka announced in brussels last week that the czech republic is preparing to sign a fiscal package and that it plans to introduce the euro in the medium term. i consider this to be a right step towards strengthening the czech republic's cooperation with the european union.
in writing. the adoption of this report will lead to the harmonisation of member states' freezing and confiscation regimes, which will lead to a deepening of mutual trust and to more effective cross-border cooperation. it will also be a step towards strengthening the mutual recognition of freezing and confiscation orders, an important element in the fight against serious cross-border and organised crime in the eu. this report strengthens the provisions on confiscation other than on the basis of a conviction and on extended confiscation in order to make them more effective and to make them more effective. the purpose is to prevent the proceeds of crime from being used to commit further crimes or reinvested in legal activities. as regards confiscation not based on a conviction, it can be noted that this is a system that was first used in the usa and is now increasingly being used in the rest of the world.
in writing. the new union fund will make it possible to continue contributing to alleviating the worst forms of poverty and social exclusion in europe. i also welcome the efforts to simplify the implementation procedures. the administrative burden should be kept to a minimum, in particular for partner organisations. the focus on persons at risk of material and food deprivation, in particular homeless people, children and households with children, and accompanying social inclusion measures should help to address the worst and most severe forms of deprivation. the adopted legislation will enable member states, partner organisations and other actors to share knowledge and encourage a more strategic approach to tackling poverty and social exclusion.
the rapporteur. mr president, the council regulation which the commission proposes to repeal specifies a total of 15 different categories of compensation which railway undertakings may obtain if they meet the criteria laid down. in the past, four or five of the member states of the european union have used this regulation. it was belgium, germany, ireland, poland, and i think slovakia. the payments made were limited to three categories out of the 15, the last to benefit from these payments being, to my knowledge, the polish state railways (pkp). the purpose of the payments in the case of pkp was to subsidize the level crossing of the railway with the road, i.e. the reconstruction of the railway crossings. i suggest you go to poland and see what it means. the commission considers that the subsidy in question can also be obtained by other means. however, i propose first to ask the commission to amend the existing regulation on the basis of a more in-depth analysis and to adapt it to the legal framework currently in force. in the meantime, i consider it appropriate to postpone the decision to repeal this regulation, as most of its provisions are to be transposed into national law by 16 june 2015. this includes the obligation to draw up and properly implement a contractual agreement for railway infrastructure investment for a period of at least 5 years. such harmonisation of conditions has not yet been carried out by the member states, either in terms of time limits or in other respects. it is therefore desirable to avoid any misunderstanding that could arise from the excessive pressure to repeal the regulation. article 15 of directive 2012/34/eu states that the commission should submit a report on the state of the railway sector every two years. this is a 2012 directive that we're innovating here in one of the reports in this package. it would be appropriate that a similar report be submitted to the council and the european parliament also two years after the expiry of the deadline for transposition of the directive which the council proposes to repeal. on the basis of this assessment, legislators could then be informed whether compensation payments had been made in the meantime and whether this was indeed the case as provided for in council regulation (eec) no 1192/69. i am concerned that in the member states where the cost of social security systems and other things are still covered by the member states' budgets, we will simply leave it out. we are trying - and my colleagues have rightly emphasized this - to improve the position of the railways in relation to other modes of transport, and by abolishing this regulation in a hurry we are actually making it worse in this particular case. i therefore propose, in line with the vote in the committee on transport and tourism, to postpone this decision so that after the deadline for implementation, i.e. 16 june 2015, the report to be submitted by the commission can be discussed. as regards the actual voting on the amendments, if the key one, amendment no 2, is not voted on, i am forced to ask that my name be removed from the title of the report under consideration, because i cannot agree with the result of this vote, which is clearly damaging to rail transport in the european union. and that's not the purpose of any of this material.
mr president, commissioner, we are used to being able to choose between competing products or services when we shop. there is no reason why rail passengers should not have a choice. in the past, we have heard that despite the three previous packages, satisfaction and passenger numbers on the railway have not increased substantially. the opposite is true. but we need to open up the market even more. a model example is the line from prague to ostrava in the czech republic, where three carriers are currently competing and passengers cannot boast of them. personally, i am in favour of opening up the market because i want to make sure that people who travel to other cities are as happy as i am. with reference to the last three packages, i'm also saying that if we don't set a level playing field for all states and all carriers, we have no chance of success and we'll be sitting here over the fifth, sixth and seventh packages. the same applies to a number of amendments which are very much trying to preserve the status quo or introduce various protectionist measures. competition between carriers can only arise in a competitive environment.
it is sad, mr president, that we in the european parliament are still faced with attempts to break up regional or state-controlled enterprises and, under the pretext of opening up the market, we are left with insoluble contradictions. the partial privatisation of certain activities has resulted in a significant worsening of the situation of employees. on the other hand, the fourth package is making progress towards the harmonisation of technical conditions for material testing across the european union. equally important is the achievement of a single vision for road safety and for all installations. for the reasons stated above, the confederation of european united left and nordic green left group supports the technical part of the package. we are asking for the repeal of the regulation on the standardisation of accounts to be postponed and we do not support the two political reports, that is to say the reports by mr grosch and mr el khadraoui, because they endanger the future of rail transport and not only the trade unionists here in front of the building, but also the association of manufacturers of railway equipment in the czech republic have asked me to do so.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i thank all my colleagues who have spoken here for their contributions to the debate and also for their cooperation in the joint work. for commissioner if he does not know how to ensure transparency in accounting for several activities in one large company, i will be happy to advise him. i did it myself for a few years in a glass factory i ran. secondly, railway safety, like working conditions, is at the heart of all our efforts and we must always ask ourselves whether we are improving working conditions and safety or making them worse, because otherwise we are digging the railway's grave. thirdly, the capacity of the main lines, which are profitable in smaller countries, is very limited. what my colleague was saying here, that is, the liberalisation of one of the main lines meant the practical elimination of freight traffic. when i was 17, there were direct trains from eastern slovakia to paris. it's not possible today. we've come a long way from where we were. let's see how it is possible that the swiss railways work exemplary. that must be our goal.
in writing. one of the objectives of the 4th railway package, of which this report is part, is to ensure equal access to infrastructure. the proposal also aims to strengthen coordination between infrastructure managers and railway undertakings. the institutional separation of the infrastructure manager from the transport services is established by prohibiting the same legal or natural person from having control or influence over both the infrastructure manager and the railway undertaking. the draft 4th railway package proposes a certain inequality in this respect. on the one hand, it prohibits the creation of new holding companies between carriers and infrastructure managers, and on the other hand, it allows existing ones to continue to operate. in this context, i believe that there is a need to create a level playing field for railway operations in the eu. it is necessary to ensure that carriers have equal access to railway infrastructure in all member states on fair, transparent and non-discriminatory terms. in this context, i will endeavour to ensure that the proposed changes ensure the continued operation and development of czech carriers.
the commission will be dealing with both reports simultaneously. first of all, i would like to thank mr de backer and all the colleagues on the committees involved for their cooperation and for the very valuable and useful opinions they have given. the committees for the internal market and consumer protection, transport and tourism, industry, research and energy and civil liberties, justice and home affairs have supported the general line of mandatory ecall and have contributed, i firmly believe, to a balanced report with a clear message. the european parliament has long been one of the main supporters of the introduction of the ecall safety system. we have repeatedly pointed to the delays in the voluntary implementation of the system, the main benefit of which will be to reduce the number of fatalities and reduce the severity of injuries caused by road traffic accidents, thanks to the faster arrival of emergency services at the scene of an accident. in july 2012, we called in a european parliament resolution for ecall to become a public service using the 112 emergency hotline, provided free of charge and for the benefit of all drivers in europe, regardless of the make of their vehicle. we have pointed out that the adoption of regulatory measures to make ecall mandatory is currently the only way to achieve all its positive impacts. we also called on the commission to come forward with a proposal to make the public ecall system using the 112 emergency call line mandatory in all new models and in all member states by 2015. last june, the commission put forward proposals to equip all new models of cars and light commercial vehicles with ecall from october 2015 and to set up the necessary infrastructure to receive and handle such calls properly in emergency call centres, ensuring interoperability and continuity of the service across the european union. both proposals are very much in line with the earlier requests of the european parliament and i therefore propose that their key elements be approved. focusing in more detail on the on-board unit regulation, i propose to strengthen or clarify the existing text on a number of specific provisions, whether in terms of scope, determination of exemptions or technical control of the on-board unit. a very important aspect that we have been paying close attention to and that i would like to focus on is the protection of personal data. i would like to thank my colleagues from the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs for their cooperation and the european data protection supervisor for their comments. the regulation requires that vehicles equipped with ecall in-vehicle systems are not traceable and are not subject to any permanent recording of their position. ecall data shall be handled in accordance with existing legislation on the protection of personal data. the data set sent by the ecall in-vehicle system will only include the minimum information required for the response of emergency calls by the rescue services. with regard to other on-board applications or services, if any, the proposal provides that ecall is first and foremost a safety system. at the same time, we want to encourage the commission to further intensify its work on value-added services, which could bring additional benefits to consumers and the industry. however, these services must always remain voluntary for the customer and must comply with safety standards. as regards the infrastructure deployment decision, the proposal requires member states to deploy the necessary ecall infrastructure on their territory by 1 october 2015 at the latest, which is necessary for the proper reception and handling of ecalls. member states may choose the modernisation method that is most appropriate for their national structure, also taking into account the possible filtering of false calls, where there is a concern for some member states about the congestion of the emergency line. the text explicitly states that ecall as a public emergency call service must be provided free of charge to all road users.
draftswoman of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. - mr. chairman, thank you, but i've already made my opening statement.
mr president, in my work on the committee on transport and tourism, i have always advocated measures to increase safety, to reduce the number of deaths and injuries on our roads. among other things, i supported the project "safe transitions" at home. for this reason, i welcome the idea of ecall. on the other hand, i have always respected the free choice of the customers. i would hate to see brussels, in an effort to protect consumers, ban motorcycles, skiing or anything else it deems unsafe. i feel very strongly about attempts to limit customer choice, even though i know that safety is not always their only priority. it is simply their right and their choice. just as when buying a car, customers have the option of paying for more airbags or a wider range of driving aids, so too ecall must be a choice. on the other hand, member states must not, by their inaction, stand in the way of those who opt for ecall. the necessary infrastructure of emergency call centres should therefore be established.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area, and it is hoped that the council will be able to take them up in the next few months. we've heard words of support and disapproval, but that's life. i am convinced that we have produced a balanced draft report which responds to some of the concerns raised in the debate. let me use the remaining time i have to give you some concrete examples of who can benefit from the ecall system. like the crew of a car that the paramedics got to in time, but it wasn't until after dawn that they found out there were two other people in the car. or the crews of the vehicles where the perpetrator escaped the accident without informing the rescue team. also people who crashed at night or in places where they just went unnoticed. and this isn't about minutes, hours, but sometimes, unfortunately, days. the ecall system will also serve those who have crashed in an unknown location. in the european union, more than 100 million trips abroad are made every year, and ecall can save up to 2 500 lives a year. please keep that in mind when we vote tomorrow. and if i may, one more thank you, and that's to your assistant, michael vaniac, because he did a tremendous amount of work on this report.
, in writing. i support the compromise agreed between parliament and the council on the third multiannual eu programme in the field of health for 2014-2020 ('health for growth'). under the lisbon treaty, the member states are responsible for the policy and organisation of health and healthcare. the programme's function is therefore, of course, only supportive and complementary. i welcome the fact that parliament has managed to increase the overall budget to eur 449.6 billion and that, in order to support and involve the poorer member states more, the co-financing level in qualified cases has been increased to 80%. for more than four years, i have been working at both european and national level on the prevention of certain cancers. i know from experience that running effective screening programmes is often a very complicated matter. not only is there a need for cooperation between all actors, but also for the use of cross-border experiences and results. and that is one of the aims of the programme: to promote cooperation, to share data, to create european networks for cancer prevention through the exchange of knowledge and best practice. if parliament approves the proposal tomorrow, the council should only formally confirm it. the commission will probably announce the first calls at the turn of april and may. the application deadline should be at least 3 months and should be set to avoid the possible impractical coincidence of the end of the application with the summer months.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, i am very pleased that we can now close the nearly two and a half year old story of the telecommunications part of the connecting europe facility. let me briefly recall the main milestones associated with this proposal. the european commission presented a legislative proposal in october 2011. following the agreement on the budgetary framework for 2014-2020, which reduced the budget for the telecommunications part from the original eur 9.2 billion to eur 1 billion, the commission presented a modified proposal at the end of may last year and the itre committee reacted very flexibly. the amendments were therefore voted on on 9 july, together with the mandate for negotiations with the council. we met with the council and the commission at the first informal trilogue in early october and then had a successful technical meeting, so that on 5 november we could concentrate on the open policy issues at the second trilogue and reach an interinstitutional agreement on the final text. throughout the whole debate, as rapporteur for excellent support and with the very good cooperation of my colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs, i have consistently promoted two main themes. first of all, i would like to mention the support for broadband projects, which was a clear priority for the european parliament from the beginning to the end of the negotiations. as part of the overall agreement, we had to back off from the requirement for more ambitious connectivity speeds compared to the digital agenda goals. but we were able to justify investing in model broadband projects, a third of which were aiming for more than 100 megabits per second. although i'm sure we all felt very sorry that we couldn't have supported this ambitious direction more. i have already mentioned that the majority of the funds, namely eur 850 million, should go to digital services. the safer internet and europeana programmes in particular received strong political support in the itre committee, making them the second priority in our negotiations. we have stressed their specificity and the need for continued funding from european union resources in the transition from existing community programmes to the connecting europe facility. in order to reach a compromise, we accepted the priority for the so-called basic building blocks, which should bring financial savings in the future when building other digital services. we have thus succeeded in giving safer internet and europeana a privileged position over other digital services, with guaranteed funding at the same level as before, at least for the next few years. i am convinced that we have reached a balanced compromise overall. the newly established rules for the financing of digital services and broadband projects should make a significant contribution to the development of the digital single market and ultimately benefit both citizens and businesses. as you know, we have, for objective reasons, been lagging behind the other two pillars in the acquisition of the instruments for the interconnection of europe, energy and transport. on the other hand, i am pleased that we have managed to minimise this delay and to reach a rapid agreement at the first reading. my thanks and indeed my sincere thanks in this respect go to the representatives of the lithuanian presidency and the european commission. i would like to personally thank commissioner kroes, with whom i have discussed many things, communicated with her, and whose openness and commitment to finding solutions have been truly extraordinary. i would not be standing here today without the excellent cooperation of the shadow reporters, mr. hokmark, mrs. trautmann, mr. creutzmann and mrs. andersdotter. i would like to thank all those who have contributed to this from a technical point of view, i.e. the assistants. i think it was a very hard and demanding job. thank you all very much.
for the group gue/ngl madam president, the development of telecommunications networks affects virtually all citizens of the european union. but many of them are discriminated against by private entities that are primarily concerned with profits. they build networks where they can make the most money. i therefore support the objective, also presented in the report, of complementing the private sector with public funds in regions with socially disadvantaged populations, especially in rural and remote areas. the accessibility of the networks, their sufficient capacity and their financial accessibility are a tool against the flight of young people and the depopulation of entire regions, as well as against discrimination against disabled people. access to the internet in particular can make a significant contribution to maintaining rural jobs. we should therefore not focus on general objectives such as covering half of households with high-speed internet. the private sector can easily do that in big cities. but we still have a lot of places that can't be reached or even called at all. so we have shipwrecks in the european sea of people, not to mention cases of natural disasters.
the rapporteur. - madam president, in view of the time involved, i shall be very brief. i would like to thank my colleagues for the discussion and at the same time say that we are all very well aware - and the whole debate about preparation was about this - that of course a tenth of the original amount is a big problem, but on the other hand we are aware that this is an impulse, a starting stimulus, to achieve one day what my colleague mr. hökmark spoke about, to talk about terabits and talk about those maximum speeds and the highest technology. i would like to thank everyone again, because it really was not easy, we are aware of how difficult it is to negotiate a reduction to one tenth in the european parliament with all the ideas and visions. i believe that our colleagues, or perhaps ourselves, will push this start even further, and i believe that in time mrs kroes' idea will prove to be very good and indeed that the highest technology in broadband will become common practice in europe. i thank you all again and hope that this report will be adopted tomorrow.
commissioner, mr president, i have listened carefully to the debate this morning and i am convinced that the regulation in question cannot achieve its intended purpose. using international law institutes as a tool for consumer law harmonisation is an inappropriate experiment. the proposed procedure will not contribute to consolidating the internal market or to improving its functioning, nor will it facilitate cross-border business-to-consumer business relations. the proposed dual alignment of consumer law regimes will undermine consumers' legal certainty and overlook their orientation across the whole consumer law complex. i am very much concerned that what we are discussing today is the beginning of the emergence of an autonomous legal order which, while it now declares its existence in parallel with national legal systems, cannot ignore its unconcealed ambition to gradually replace national legal regimes. the focus of private law, including contract law, should remain at the level of member states, which are able to regulate it not only sufficiently but also effectively. i therefore vote to reject the motion.
in writing. cohesion policy remains the main source of eu public funding in the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework and the new cohesion policy framework puts full emphasis on the need to focus investment at regional and local level on job creation, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, employment, especially youth employment, labour mobility, training and education, research and innovation, sustainable transport, sustainable energy, environment and urban development. the commission and the member states need to increase investment in entrepreneurship, start-ups and self-employment as a means of creating more jobs, especially as smes and micro-enterprises provide more than two thirds of jobs in the eu private sector. it is important to take into account the significant needs of many less developed regions for investment in infrastructure projects in essential sectors such as transport, telecommunications and energy.
in writing. following the failure of the voluntary approach, the commission has opted for the regulatory approach. the ecall system will be based on type-approved equipment for the single european emergency number 112 built into all vehicles, starting with certain vehicle categories, and a framework for handling ecalls in telecommunications networks and in emergency call centres. this will make ecall available as an eu-wide service to all citizens in europe, accelerate deployment and develop the full potential of ecall to save lives and reduce the severity of injuries. on the other side of the coin, the price of this mandatory device for new cars is estimated at tens of thousands of dollars. this will increase the price of each car, and especially for smaller and cheaper models, it will be a considerable sum from the consumer's point of view. the question is whether it should be left to each individual to decide whether to pay for and buy an ecall car or whether to consider the service as an aftermarket that they do not want to use.
in writing. over 30,000 people die on european roads every year, which is a very alarming statistic. i therefore welcome any initiative that would alleviate the consequences of road accidents and reduce the number of deaths and serious injuries that result from them. that is why i voted today in favour of mr de backer's report on the interoperability of the ecall service throughout the european union. this automatic emergency system will call for help via the 112 number in the event of a road accident anywhere in europe and will send the location of the crashed car to the rescuers. by 2015, this could save up to 2 500 lives and reduce the response time of rescue teams, thereby significantly reducing the consequences of serious injuries. in addition, the service should be free of charge for all drivers in the eu.
in writing. value added tax (vat) is an indirect tax paid by the final consumer as a result. the european commission estimates that the introduction of a standardised vat return will reduce the administrative costs associated with vat collection by up to eur 15 billion per calendar year. this would be a welcome relief for the spending side of eu member states' public budgets, and not just in times of crisis. i believe that this mechanism of vat unification could contribute to the national budgets by alleviating the administrative burden and reducing tax evasion which occurs due to the lack of transparency of the tax systems of individual countries. i agree with the rapporteur that, in order to ensure the proper and secure submission of the standardised vat return, the tax authorities of the member states should provide tax officials and taxable persons with the opportunity to obtain sufficient information on administrative procedures.
in writing. - i agree with the commission's overall objective of creating a single european railway area. the share of rail transport in relation to other modes of transport should be increased and the eu should strive to make rail a reliable and attractive means of transport again. however, liberalisation should not be an end in itself, but should be seen as a useful tool for creating more competitive sectors and high-quality services. the opening-up of the market must be accompanied by strict rules on passenger rights as regards travel information, the sale of travel documents and the strengthening of social legislation applicable to railway undertakings' employees. it is also necessary for each member state to strike the right balance between opening up the market and protecting public service obligations. the preference of commercially attractive routes should be avoided, as should the systematic cancellation of less profitable routes.
in writing. i supported the proposal for a directive on the accessibility of public services online, as public sector websites are supposed to be accessible to all citizens. there are more than 761 000 public sector websites in the european union. however, only one third of them meet international internet accessibility standards. this means that millions of people, especially people with disabilities or older citizens, are completely excluded from this means of communication. the proposal will soon make it easier for disabled, blind and elderly citizens to use public sector websites. i welcome the fact that text and image enhancement, video enrichment with sign language, voice reading of content or page contrast should become a regular part of the offer. i also support the possibility of extending the directive to websites operated by private entities offering gas, heat, electricity or water supplies, or to the transport, childcare or health services sectors, where appropriate. if a disabled person is to be considered as an equal, this equality must be ensured regardless of the columns.
madam president, the events of the last few days have opened up a huge opportunity for ukraine, an opportunity and a chance to build a free, stable, inclusive, prosperous country. of course it will not be easy. what is needed first of all is a stable, inclusive government where all the forces work together: all the forces which were in opposition up till now, the major forces from the maidan, and also i think the people and the voters who voted for the party of regions should be included. the country needs stability in the first few days and weeks, and the financial and economic issues will have to be looked at. if not, there will be a collapse. what is needed, in my view, is short-term credit for the country. we were told that in the next few days and weeks the country will need something like usd[nbsp ]4 billion – but not only that. what the country needs (and this is where we should help) is a medium-term programme. i think the eu should participate, but because ukraine is also a member of the imf, it should also be done with the assistance of the imf. a donors’ conference was mentioned. i think that is exactly the way we should go. the problems are huge, the sums are big. neither the eu nor single member states nor ukraine can deal with those issues by themselves, so we need a broader community. the visa issue was mentioned. if you look at the situation, 70% of ukrainians have never ever visited a single country of the european union. i think we have to change that. it would be good for the ukrainians and it is our moral duty. so let us get rid of the visa issues step by step. finally, the association agreement and the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement: yes, that is the way forward. but i think we should also give ukraine a european perspective, according to article 49.
madam president, the situation in ukraine reminds me very intimately of the coup d'état in the banana republics. in this case, however, the coup was not organized by the military, but by a group of well-trained and well-equipped, appropriately motivated so-called demonstrators. the non-ukrainian nationality of the first two dead and the use of firearms by the poor protesters pointed to the very special nature of the struggle for power in this important european state. i understand that two groups of big business owners, the so-called oligarchs, are fighting each other. i do not understand why the staff of one of these groups is being taken over by uninformed colleagues from the european parliament. the role of the european union and the us will soon be exposed, as the ukrainian economy continues to decline after the perfect coup, millions of people are displaced from the country, and instability in the country continues to affect the european union's neighbouring countries. sadly, many of our colleagues in their naivety believe that the country is moving towards democracy with this coup. the near future may tell them that everything is different, but billions of dollars in losses and further economic and social decline in ukraine will not stop even their deepest repentance.
the agenda includes a debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission, high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, on the situation in venezuela (2014/2600(rsp))
i have received five motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 110(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on consequences of adverse weather conditions in various member states (2014/2599(rsp)).
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the joint debate on – the report by tanja fajon, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 539/2001 listing the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement (com(2013)0853 – c7-0430/2013 – 2013/0415(cod)) (a7-0104/2014), and– the oral question to the commission on the future of eu visa policy by juan fernando lópez aguilar, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (o-000028/2014 – b7-0108/2014) (2014/2586(rsp)).
mr president, i have two comments on this subject. one concerns visa reciprocity and mutual solidarity between the member states of the european union. unfortunately, that doesn't always work. we saw this in our own example with the visa to canada, where suddenly the european union was divided into two categories, visa-free countries and countries that needed a visa to come to canada. unfortunately, that solidarity didn't work here. i think we should take a lesson from this and really try to ensure that if something like this happens, political pressure is put on the country that introduces visas for only some of the european union member countries, so that it is clear that there are no first and second category countries. the second point i would like to make is the matter of protecting the external borders. if we introduce a visa-free regime with a country, it should always be accompanied by a clear statement that the protection of the external borders of the european union will be such as to prevent illegal migration into the european union.
i have received one motion for a resolution tabled in accordance with rule 115(1) of the rules of procedure. the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly.
the next item is the report by morten løkkegaard, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on solvit (2013/2154(ini)) (a7-0059/2014).
in writing. i welcome the motion for a resolution on ukraine as an attempt to contribute to the de-escalation of the situation and to find a way out of the chaos. i am glad that the authors of the proposal emphasized the need to preserve the nuclear-free status of ukraine. but i'm missing two important motives in the proposal. in particular, the assessment of the strange policy of eu representatives towards ukraine and its duly elected representatives and the active interference in internal affairs by encouraging anti-government protesters before the eu-ukraine summit in lithuania and also after the failure of this - in my opinion, poorly prepared - summit by the commission. we were overwhelmed by a completely one-sided assessment of the situation at a time when tv cameras showed the arming of extremists, the shouting of anti-semitic, anti-russian and sometimes anti-polish slogans. the mediation mission mentioned in the motion for a resolution was either insincere or the ministers from the union countries involved failed to deal with the situation and to contribute to the implementation of the compromise agreements. i think the resolution should include a call to russia to offer joint assistance to ukraine. i would see this as a prerequisite for moscow not to see the union's involvement in the events in kiev as a cynical geopolitical game aimed against russia. at the same time, i think that the disconnection of the ukrainian economy from the russian market would have immediate tragic consequences. we must not forget that there are many millions of ethnic russians living in ukraine, who should be taken under protection from the growing chauvinism of some right-wing ukrainian politicians.
in writing. the motion for a resolution before us is a remarkable inventory of the problems facing iraq today. it's a pretty graphic depiction of the tragedy of this country, but it leaves out an important aspect: do we really have the right to mentor? did not some eu states, through their aggression against this country and their incompetent occupation administration, contribute to the chaos described? we should finally take a moment to wipe our own doorstep and assess which of our political and military actions are destabilizing the world. why is it that after the victories of nato troops in afghanistan, iraq and libya, we see in these countries a disorder and an endless chain of violence? it is not enough to adopt a resolution calling on the government of iraq to respect the obligations of the universal declaration of human rights, not only because the universal declaration is not binding but recommending; are bound by the international covenant on civil and political rights and the international covenant on economic, social and cultural rights. the situation in iraq and afghanistan is now so complicated and the eu and nato policies so helpless that it would be appropriate to convene an international conference on a very broad basis to discuss how to proceed. we should admit that our efforts so far have left tens of thousands dead and no prospects. i believe that only agreements, for example with the shanghai cooperation organisation countries, can create the conditions for progress in finding a way out of the chaos and bloodshed there.
in writing. despite the overall positive assessment of the european arrest warrant (eaw) system, there are shortcomings in its functioning, including the non-respect of the procedural rights of suspects and accused persons, poor detention conditions, the alleged excessive use of the eaw by some member states and the non-respect of the principle of proportionality. these shortcomings include the statistic that between 2005 and 2009 54 689 eag were issued but only 11 630 were implemented. mutual distrust is also reflected in member states' efforts to apply the principles of their national judicial systems, as they fear that the issuing member state applies lower standards of procedural guarantees or fundamental rights. the solution can be both non-enforcement measures such as the european arrest warrant handbook and legislative measures at eu level.
in writing. the draft resolution on the personal copying levy calls on the european commission to take steps to harmonise personal copying levies across the european union. it is based on the belief that the right to fair compensation for copyright holders is impaired when copyrighted content is copied. the resolution also reflects the shift in the way copyrighted content is consumed and handled when using internet services, in particular streaming and cloud services. unfortunately, in the czech republic, a system of copying fees is already in place in the form of a royalty fee, which is charged for the sale of any storage medium. the principle of charging a fee for the way products that have already been paid for are handled is not correct. since storage media can serve a variety of purposes other than copying copyright-protected content, it is not appropriate to impose a flat-rate copying fee on them. it's pointless to charge copying fees for streaming or cloud services. they're already charged for use. rightholders may be compensated in the form of service fees but not in the form of copying fees. the application of this principle is as pointless as the application of the toll to all types of road transport. i do not agree with the principle of these charges, which is why i voted against the resolution.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, i have had the privilege of working in the horticultural industry for five years. as shadow rapporteur of my group on the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i have had numerous discussions with experts, interest groups and the interested public on this proposal. i couldn't find anyone who would welcome the proposal as it was presented. i have found no added value in this proposal. i see only an attempt to lump together the production and sale of seeds from all possible fields that are not related either functionally or materially. i see the risk that some sectors would effectively cripple or even destroy the proposal as it has been put forward. european union legislation on the production of plant reproductive material must facilitate and promote, not threaten, the conservation of biodiversity in agriculture and horticulture. that is why, in november last year, when this proposal was being discussed in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i first suggested with a heavy heart that the proposal should be rejected, and on 30 january this year, as later in the committee on agriculture and rural development, i did so. i believe that tomorrow's vote to reject the european commission's proposal for a regulation will have the necessary support. i appreciate the unity of the european parliament, which has once again stood up for the interests of european citizens and businesses in this case. i believe that this will be a sufficient signal for the european commission to withdraw the draft regulation and to revise it so that it truly reflects the current needs of the european seed market and of seed, planting and agricultural practices.
in writing. the report on the future of european agriculture is a strategic document and one of the first to address the growing of fruit and vegetables. fruit and vegetables account for 18% of the total value of agricultural production in the eu, but use only 3% of the cultivated land. european fruit and vegetable consumption continues to rise and is finally becoming a global trend for healthy eating. it is essential, however, that fruit and vegetables are not only fresh but also, and above all, biologically valuable, without unnecessary pesticide and other chemical spraying. sadly, the worldwide trend is also to make the most of the fruit and vegetable trade and to use modern chemicals to preserve them in the same condition for as long as possible. i therefore call for massive support for organic fruit and vegetable production not only in the eu but also in the individual member states. the report sets out the challenges facing the industry in the coming years and possible solutions. fruit and vegetable production has an impact on employment in the regions and offers many job opportunities for less skilled young people, women and older citizens. it is essential to fully support the cultivation of organically sound fruit and vegetables in europe. the eu should be self-sufficient in this sector for strategic reasons.
i declare open the 2014-2015 session of the european parliament.
the next item is the report by burkhard balz, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directives 2003/71/ec and 2009/138/ec in respect of the powers of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority and the european securities and markets authority (com(2011)0008 – c7-0027/2011 – 2011/0006(cod)) (a7-0077/2012).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly.
the next item is the joint debate on– the report by mojca kleva kekuš and timothy kirkhope, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on information accompanying transfers of funds (com(2013)0044 – c7-0034/2013 – 2013/0024(cod)) (a7-0140/2014), and– the report by krišjānis kariņš and judith sargentini, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing (com(2013)0045 – c7-0032/2013 – 2013/0025(cod)) (a7-0150/2014).
in writing. the new directive aims to improve the existing framework in order to prevent the transformation of proceeds of crime into legal funds through the financial system. the international monetary fund calculates that the scale of money laundering is significant, estimated at 5% of global gdp. this crime undermines the integrity of the financial sector, results in the loss of government revenues, impedes competition, negatively impacts the functioning of markets and undermines development. i think it is important in the report that public central registers be set up containing information on the actual ultimate owners of all types of companies, including foundations, holding companies and trusts. i believe that this directive of the european parliament is an important step in the fight against money laundering and that is why i supported this report.
for the group gue/ngl madam president, as the european commission approaches the end of its mandate, it is beginning to remind the finalists of the race to the finish line. a series of ill-considered ultra-liberal proposals is causing the popularity of the european institutions to decline considerably. unfortunately, one of these proposals is the redesign of the single european sky, the so-called ses 2+. although the single european sky i initiative has not been evaluated and its results will only be seen next year, the rapporteur naively supports the ill-considered proposals of the european commission. the economic problems of airlines in europe have absolutely nothing to do with air traffic control. on the contrary, making rash changes without evaluating the steps taken so far can create dangerous collision situations. the various national air traffic management organisations are already working very well together and there is a consensus across the european union on the need to reject this ill-considered proposed step. the group of the confederation of the european united left and the nordic green left cannot support this proposal.
madam president, commissioner, although i have always supported the idea of using european airspace more efficiently, i see a number of problems with the current proposal to implement the single european sky. first of all, i doubt the timing of such a proposal. the member states, but also the european commission, have not had time to evaluate the current reference periods of the esf i and the esf ii, which end in 2014, and yet another proposal is already on the table introducing very substantial changes. i cannot agree with such a procedure, in particular because the proposed changes in the form of the establishment of an airspace structure manager clearly lead to a weakening of the position of the member states in decision-making procedures over their airspace. the european commission's current proposal also fails to address the issue of the protection of member states' airspace. although it is a positive step to clarify the responsibilities of the european commission, the european aviation safety agency and eurocontrol, i cannot support this report.
for the ecr group. mr president, my country joined the european union ten years ago. we went in with great enthusiasm. today, the support of the european union or the trust of the european union in the czech republic is at about 34% of the population. it's a very low number. it is necessary to ask where the mistake occurred. as we say in our country, after a famous film, which is probably untranslatable here into those languages: "where did the comrades from the gdr make a mistake?" i think the fault is systemic, that it's not the fault of individual politicians. this is the case, for example, with the loss of competitiveness and the support of smes. we support them with schemes on the one hand, and we stifle and destroy them with excessive regulation on the other. in fact, every regulation today can be justified in some noble way either by consumer protection or by environmental protection. but in the 10 years that you have been in office, mr president, the package of european legislation and european regulation has grown. there was talk of climate policy. that is, of course, a total failure, and so say the members of your commission. indeed, retail electricity prices alone have increased by 20% in recent years, by 17% for businesses, and a significant part of this increase is due to very generous support for renewables. the current 20-20-20 targets will cost european businesses an additional eur 210 million per year, if we go to 30%, that will be eur 450 million per year. but that was not enough for us here in the european parliament, we even got 40%. we're cutting ourselves off from the competition and we can hardly talk about being competitive. the european institutions are self-interested, the european political groups are devising candidates for the president of the european commission, which is not even in accordance with the lisbon treaty, because it says that the president is appointed by the european council taking into account the results of the elections to the european parliament. here it's been misinterpreted in a way that's funny, and groups are coming up with candidates like mr. verhofstadt, who, according to our survey, is unknown to 84% of the european public. that is not the answer to the crisis in which the european union finds itself today. this crisis is systemic, and unless we change the paradigm of how we perceive european integration, nothing will change. i am afraid that nothing will change at this european council either.
mr president, peace and stability in europe are based on international law - the un charter, the final act of the helsinki conference on security and cooperation in 1975, but also, among other things, the 1994 budapest memorandum on security assurances, where not only the united kingdom and the united states but also russia committed themselves to respecting the territorial integrity of ukraine. unfortunately, international law has been violated by russian military action, russian coercion. and it's also a violation of ukrainian law, which does not allow for a referendum on changing the borders. in other words, we don't want a new cold war with russia because it would benefit no one, but at the same time we can't act like nothing happened. we therefore support the measures and decisions taken by the european commission and the european council, and we fully endorse them in our resolution. yes, ukraine needs help. it needs material aid, but ukraine also needs political aid and needs to consolidate its domestic situation. so we support the idea that new presidential elections, new parliamentary elections and a government that is inclusive should be held as soon as possible... (the president cut off the speaker)
i share the deep concern of all colleagues about the developments in ukraine, especially in the context of the events in crimea. our common concern is growing, and with good reason. we have been dealing with this issue several times over the last few months, and things are not getting better. they escalate. 25 years after the fall of communism, we find ourselves unexpectedly in the middle of a new cold war. a war with which we have a historical experience of almost half a century. a war that, in its new edition today, has only moved the dividing line further east. a war that none of us could have foreseen even a few short years ago. and finally, a war that may soon escalate into something unthinkable until recently, a hot war. the european parliament has already identified the causes of this crisis on several occasions. he sees them in the behavior and policies of russia. russia has a completely different view. we are in a situation today where we all - in the west and in the east - have a responsibility to prevent the irresponsible unleashing of a tragedy like that in the year of the centenary of the outbreak of the first world war. i believe in the wisdom and reason of all of us, here in the west and there in the east. i believe in a shared sense of responsibility for all of us for peace on our continent.
in writing. the report on fluorinated greenhouse gases which has been presented is, in my view, one of the other important parts of the overall package of measures to improve the environment and preserve it for future generations. it is essentially a continuation of the regulation of substances that deplete the ozone layer, the practical part of which began in 1987 with the adoption of the montreal protocol. i am aware that the impact is particularly evident in the refrigeration and related sectors. in this context, i would also point out the need for a balanced approach, allowing businesses whose existence is closely linked to this to be able to sell, so as not to be completely liquidated and jobs lost. i also think it is important to recall the need to comply with appropriate safety standards where these substances are used, stored or manufactured, including a high-quality system to control their leakage or to carry out checks even on the tightness of the equipment in which they are contained. i see in the report an effort to achieve a goal whose outcome may only be favourable after a certain period of time. the state of being replaced by their alternatives is certainly a challenge that we will feel in the future. i supported the report.
in writing. copernicus is one of the three pillars of the eu's space policy. as such, it is an indispensable tool for ensuring continuous, independent and reliable access to earth observation data and information. it is therefore necessary to ensure that it is sufficiently funded to meet the objectives set. as this proposal was submitted by the commission only after the conclusion of the negotiations on the new multiannual financial framework, it is no longer possible to open negotiations on the amount of the allocation. however, i hope that the funding of the programme could be strengthened on the basis of actual needs in the context of the mid-term review of the mff. another important point is to ensure the highest level of security. in this respect, i would recommend making use of the experience gained and the infrastructure created in the implementation of the egnos and galileo programmes, which are of a similar nature. in particular, i am thinking of including the european gnss agency (or gsa) in the list of operators. this would avoid duplication and achieve synergies leading to savings. i am satisfied with the report by mr prodi and have therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. much has been said, written and done on the issue of the neighbourhood policy, of which the eastern partnership is an important part. i welcome the submission of the report on the evaluation of the european union's relations with the eastern partnership countries as such. it contains a number of positive points, a reminder of the direction towards developing good relations with the russian federation, promoting the development of youth cooperation and others. the context seems to me to underline the importance of this partnership, including some of the problems that go with it and need to be addressed. however, as the name implies, the eastern partnership involves a partnership. six partner countries are included in this framework. as much as i welcome this report, i regret that it does not include a closer assessment of relations with countries such as azerbaijan and belarus, including a description of the next steps, the next steps by the european union to develop partnerships with these countries. it was the fact that the data were incomplete or missing that caused me to abstain from voting on this otherwise important report.
in writing. the citizens of my country, and indeed the citizens of the eu, do not want to give up their privacy in exchange for a false sense of security. the resolution by mr moraes on the surveillance of the nsa in the united states has shown the absurdity of mass surveillance. the results of the investigation contained in the resolution duly demonstrate that such mass and intrusive surveillance has failed to prevent several tragedies. it is unacceptable that intelligence services outside europe, without any democratic control or any prior discussion, should invade the privacy of each and every one of us, starting with politicians and ending with children. i fully support the resolution's call for an eu-us privacy and data protection reciprocal agreement. the aggressive violation of the human rights of eu citizens must stop. it is our duty to fight for the rights of our citizens as well as their safety. in voting for this resolution, i joined the challenge to the privacy and dignity of people, because surveillance does not guarantee their safety.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 13[nbsp ]march[nbsp ]2014. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by andreas schwab, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council concerning measures to ensure a high common level of network and information security across the union (com(2013)0048 – c7-0035/2013 – 2013/0027(cod)) (a7-0103/2014).
mr president, commissioner, as the world is developing technologically, information systems are becoming increasingly important for the functioning of society. cyber defense is no longer a subject of disaster movies, but a fact of life. as regards the main objectives of the directive, i can only agree with them, europe needs coordination, it needs minimum standards. however, the key responsibility must remain with the member states. the competent authorities of the member states must have sufficient space and funds to build the necessary capacity. we must carefully weigh the extent of the infrastructure that will be covered by this directive and leave the final decision to the member states. finally, we must exercise caution in delegating responsibilities to private enterprises. as far as the cyber entrepreneurs are concerned, i am convinced that protecting their infrastructure is in their own interest and that they know best how to proceed in this matter.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 13[nbsp ]march[nbsp ]2014. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by theodor dumitru stolojan, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on establishing a union programme to support specific activities in the field of financial reporting and auditing for the period of 2014-2020 (com(2012)0782 – c7-0417/2012 – 2012/0364(cod)) (a7-0315/2013).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 13 march 2014.
the next item is the report by barbara weiler, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to the making available on the market of radio equipment (com(2012)0584 – c7-0333/2012 – 2012/0283(cod)) (a7-0316/2013).
mr president, commissioner, this is a directive which is linked to the harmonisation package of ten directives, by which we are finally putting into practice modern horizontal rules for the marketing of products. i have great respect for the work of the rapporteur, mrs weiler, and i appreciate her diligence and consistency, because she has also incorporated into this new text of the regulations for the marketing of radio equipment other proposals to remove unnecessary administrative burdens and, on the contrary, to strengthen the interoperability of radio equipment and its accessories. i want to make a strong case for the introduction of a single charger and i support mrs weiler in that. of course, we know that this would simplify the use of radio devices, such as mobile phones, tablets, etc., that it would reduce the amount of hazardous electrical waste, and that it should also lead to a reduction in costs. so the citizens of the european union would no doubt appreciate it immensely. the question is whether we can sell the positive results of our work in any way. it's especially on you mps who are running for re-election. i also want to say that i also wish to congratulate mrs weiler on the successful completion of the trilogue, particularly because she also experienced the problem of the comitology solution that accompanied my package of ten directives. so thank you for completing the package here after ten years, because we already adopted the goods package in 2006 and only now, as far as this directive is concerned, only in the next two years will the ideas and visions we agreed on here be implemented.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 13 march 2014.
in writing. the report by eider gardiazábal rubial highlights in particular the importance of the european structural and investment funds, which are one of the largest expenditure items in the eu budget, and highlights the fact that eu cohesion policy helps to sustain public investment in vital sectors of the economy. i emphasise that 2015 as the second year of the new mff will be important for the successful implementation of the new multiannual programmes for the period 2014-2020 and i agree with the rapporteur that in order to avoid a slowdown in the implementation of key eu policies, all programmes need to be launched and fully operational as soon as possible. i also consider it important that the agreement on pre-financing commitments to achieve specific policy objectives relating to youth employment, research, erasmus+ (in particular for apprentices) and smes is respected. i consider it essential that the youth employment initiative (eur 871,4 million in 2011 prices) and the erasmus+ and cosme programmes (eur 20 million in 2011 prices each) are pre-financed, as these instruments are the most important in the fight against youth unemployment and in overcoming the crisis.
in writing. i did not support the report, although some passages may be agreed. however, overall, the document seems to me to be too general and too inconsistent. especially in view of what we will have to deal with in the economic and social spheres. we are setting too small goals, especially in the fight against poverty and social exclusion, when we consider that these problems are faced by one in four citizens of the union in europe, the richest continent in the world. my comments are mainly about the youth employment objectives. we have been saying the same thing for a long time, and yet we are not addressing the fundamental problems of young people and their employment is on a downward trend. in addition, there is a very unhealthy and dangerous phenomenon we separate youth unemployment from older age groups but unemployment is only one! we are pitting the two most vulnerable groups of the population against each other, and creating generational tension and animosity in the name of keeping or getting a job, which ultimately creates more problems.
mr president, i am pleased that we can conclude today one of the key health legislation of recent years. i thank all my colleagues for their cooperation and welcome the agreement reached with the council on the final text of the regulation. parliament's ambitious proposal to further reduce the time taken to assess applications has not been fully heard by the member states. however, sixty days is a satisfactory result, and we can hope that this time limit will not always be used to the last day. if it's overstepped, there's a safety net in the form of tacit consent. together with a single clinical trial request for all participating countries, the whole process will be simplified and there is a chance for medical research to return to europe. the public will certainly appreciate the efforts we have made in the legislative process to make the whole process transparent and will learn to work with the information provided. similarly, this directly applicable regulation will give pharmaceutical companies the legal certainty and predictability required by the decision-making of the national authorities.
the rapporteur of the committee on transport and tourism. - mr president, in the field of transport, where i am the draftsman of the opinion, we can be satisfied with the commission's management. the 100% utilisation rate of the ten-t project is a good result. but we cannot be satisfied with the drawdown of the european structural funds. according to the commission's report, the risk payments in this area range from eur 755 million to eur 1,7 billion. the commission has raised reservations on 61 programmes. for the current negotiation of partnership agreements, i therefore reiterate my call for the maximum simplification of the grant system as well as for clear requirements from the european commission. the commission can avoid a large proportion of errors in future programmes by making clear to the member states in advance what it will require of them in the future. my second criticism concerns the way in which the european commission informs citizens about what it is spending public money on. the current system, where you only have to look up the budget chapters on the commission's website and the rest you have to check with the relevant associated agencies, including the ten-t executive agency, requires citizens to first study european studies if they want to understand the system.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 3 april 2014. written statements (rule 149)
in writing. the court estimated that the error rate for eu budget expenditure as a whole was 4,8% in 2012 (3,9% in 2011). estimating error rates is not a measure of fraud, inefficiency or waste. this is an estimate of the appropriations that should not have been paid because they were not used in accordance with the relevant legislation. typical errors include payments to ineligible beneficiaries or to ineligible projects or to purchases where public procurement rules have not been properly applied. i'm glad the discharge process has been successfully completed. i believe we must ensure that eu taxpayers' money is treated efficiently and economically. in this context, i have also advocated increased control of the expenditure of members of the european parliament themselves. i believe that the regular control of members' expenditure will also become a natural part of the discharge in the next parliamentary term.
the next item is the report by peter liese, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2003/87/ec establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the community, in view of the implementation by 2020 of an international agreement applying a single global market-based measure to international aviation emissions (com(2013)0722 – c7-0374/2013 – 2013/0344(cod)) (a7-0079/2014).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 3 april 2014. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the joint debate on– the report by pablo zalba bidegain, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions (com(2013)0550 – c7-0241/2013 – 2013/0265(cod)) (a7-0167/2014), and– the report by diogo feio, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on payment services in the internal market and amending directives 2002/65/ec, 2013/36/eu and 2009/110/ec and repealing directive 2007/64/ec (com(2013)0547 – c7-0230/2013 – 2013/0264(cod)) (a7-0169/2014).
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 3 april 2014. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance.
that concludes the item.
mr president, the s&d group welcomes the geneva agreement and calls on all sides to honour their commitments and reach a final agreement within the agreed timeframe. but the eu’s long-term policy towards iran should look beyond the nuclear issues. if – and once – the final agreement is concluded, it should be used as a stepping stone to widen our engagement and dialogue with iran, including, of course, issues of regional security. drawing iran into constructive regional cooperation would go a long way towards restoring stability in the middle east. of course, we also have to look at human rights. some modest improvements have been achieved since president rouhani took office. some political prisoners, including the sakharov prizewinner, nasrin sotoudeh, have been released. however, these improvements are not yet systemic and can easily be reversed. we therefore need greater involvement and greater engagement. iranian civil society, women, students, and the progressive economic reforms are waiting for that. so that should be our role and task in the foreseeable future.
mr president, in connection with the debate on the situation in iran, i would like to warn against putting the human rights situation there on the back burner. as a citizen of the czech republic, i still have a vivid memory of how dangerous it is when surrounding states look on with indifference to oppression and human rights violations in their neighborhood. there is no way that the human rights situation in iran is improving. let me remind you that under the current president rouhani, public executions are on the rise, with 700 people executed last year alone. for example, a 26-year-old woman is soon to be executed for defying a rape sentence. the iranian regime has a long history of violating fundamental human rights. for example, 3,000 iranian refugees from camp ashraf are now being exterminated in camp liberty by iraq. at home, the iranian regime imprisons and tortures its own citizens on the basis of their religious beliefs, as it did with the unjustly detained christian pastor abedini. i have been drawing attention to both of these cases for a long time and i am therefore convinced that any engagement with the iranian regime must be conditional upon a significant improvement in the human rights situation.
in writing. as in the case of major health threats, there is a transnational overlap. the reach of medical devices as such, their easier accessibility and, in particular, the possibility for patients to use the most advanced devices possible are important objectives and a certain contribution to health protection. this includes the necessary support for innovation in the field of health needs, criteria for maintaining safety parameters or, for example, issues related to clinical trials. the key point for me is to constantly remind patients of the risks, to assess them, and thus to achieve an increased level of protection for both patients and staff. i therefore supported the material presented.
in writing. as a doctor, the goals of improving patient and healthcare staff safety and their implementation are always a sensitive issue for me. both this proposal for in vitro medical devices and the related proposal for medical devices are, in my view, such changes, which are based on reflecting on current developments, current possibilities and modern trends. a system for sharing the necessary data within an information database or for linking information systems to enable effective traceability, tracing of a medical device from its origin to patients or medical staff, is one of the elements that can significantly increase the said level of safety and contribute to the necessary level of awareness. the amendment and harmonisation of the rules while preserving the declared purpose is a sensitive subject in the proposal and i believe that the text presented has a significant added value in its field. for these reasons, i supported the motion.
in writing. - the ecr group is a long-standing strong supporter of the nuclear energy sector, which represents an indispensable low-carbon energy source for a significant number of eu member states. we acknowledge the huge importance of ensuring nuclear safety and support the main ideas contained within this report. however, the ecr sees the newly introduced topical peer reviews as a key issue, in particular as regards the unjustified and heavy involvement of the commission in the process. this would mean a first step towards the commission taking on a supervisory role and thus endanger the independence of national regulators. this distorts the fundamental principle that ensuring nuclear safety is, and must remain, the responsibility of member statesʼ at national level. therefore we are disappointed with the outcome of todayʼs vote and as a result the ecr group voted against the overall report.
for the group gue/ngl mr president, the alternative fuels to reduce co2 emissions include, in addition to hydrogen and natural gas, electricity, according to the proposal. but that's a little bit incorrect, because electricity is not a fuel. natural gas, whether liquid or gaseous, contains methane hydrocarbons, so its use also carries co2 emissions. at the same time, the combustion of methane at high temperatures inside engines produces nitrogen oxides, which are also among the gases that damage the environment. therefore, only electricity and hydrogen used in hydrogen cells for electricity generation can be considered as clean energy. the use of natural gas, hydrogen and electricity is still relatively underdeveloped and it is therefore desirable to develop rapidly uniform technical conditions for connection at recharging points, to complete standardisation for both natural gas and liquefied natural gas and to promote further technical development in hydrogen and hydrogen cells. the gue/ngl group supports the report.
mr. chairman, i repeat openly that i do not agree with a higher maximum weight for any vehicle. the available analyses on the example of very heavy trucks speak clearly. two very heavy goods vehicles carry the same weight as three conventional road tractors with trailers. while transport by very heavy trucks may be 20% cheaper, the price elasticity of road transport is 0,9%, which means that if the transport price decreases by the 20% mentioned above, road transport increases by 18%. the often cited benefits of very heavy trucks reduced fuel consumption and reduction of carbon dioxide and air pollutant emissions are thus questionable in the light of newly emerging transport modes. and i'm not talking about the problems with the load-bearing capacity of bridges, which makes the operation of such heavy vehicles, for example, on our highway, out of the question. in sum, in the current situation, increasing the weight of vehicles is not an appropriate solution for the czech republic. if other countries want to do it, that's their responsibility.
the rapporteur. mr president, as rapporteur of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on plant protection measures against harmful organisms, i would like to give you, at the beginning of the debate, some basic information on this proposal and its progress in committee. the proposal was put forward by the european commission in the middle of last year as part of a wider package covering the whole food chain, i.e. animal, plant and plant health, planting material and other matters. some of the elements of this package, namely the waste framework regulation, have been completely rejected by this parliament. the proposal for a regulation on protective measures against harmful organisms of plants is based on a large-scale assessment of the functioning of the current regulation in this area, based on council directive 2000/29/ec, which has been carried out over several years. both the council and the commission consider that this regulatory framework is not sufficiently effective, as evidenced by the increasing influx and presence of harmful organisms in the european union in recent years. in recent years, as a result of increasing imports, there have been significant outbreaks of dangerous pests, which have had a strong negative impact on forestry. the 2010 evaluation of the existing regulatory regime has identified the need to update the basic legislation to fully cover the growing risks. national supervisory authorities were consulted and variants were developed. the commission has chosen the option of setting priorities, modernising the system, stepping up prevention and strengthening measures against outbreaks. the proposal was submitted to the european parliament in the first half of last year and was assigned to the committee on agriculture and rural development. the committee on the environment, public health and food safety also delivered an opinion on the proposal. the opinion on the legal basis was delivered by the committee on legal affairs. the committee hearings were held from september last year to february this year. several hundred amendments were tabled during the debate, both in the committee on agriculture and rural development and in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. after voting on these proposals, the text now goes to the plenary and we will have to decide definitively tomorrow on the european parliament's position on this regulation. during the discussions in the committees, it emerged that the main policy problem is found in article 40, which defines the rules for the importation of plants and their fruits and other parts or derivatives into the european union. this article is crucial because it defines the whole philosophy of regulating this trade. the european union has been an example of an open trading system in this particular area since its foundation. this makes the eu the world's largest importer and exporter of plant products. this is the basic philosophy of the commission proposal and is also supported by european producers and traders of plant materials. however, in the committee on agriculture and rural development, a majority of meps agreed that the eu should reconsider its current position and introduce a so-called closed system for trade in plant materials. the difference between the two approaches is fundamental and does not allow for any compromise. my view as rapporteur on this change in the philosophy of the whole regulation is negative, i am convinced that such a procedure would be contrary to global phytosanitary rules and its introduction would lead to immediate retaliation by trading partners. such a system would seriously harm european producers and traders of plant materials and would result in a reduction in the volume of imports and exports of these materials to and from the eu, with negative effects on the economic viability of european businesses and on employment. i trust that these facts will be the subject of serious consideration by all members before the vote tomorrow.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i would like to thank all the participants in today's debate for their contributions, even though i do not agree with all of them. but that's normal and that's why we have parliament to discuss these things. as the discussion has shown, the regulation on protective measures against harmful organisms of plants is a very complex piece of legislation with a major impact on international trade and on the lives of the citizens of the european union. i would point out that 168 amendments have been tabled in total, and that electronic voting is required for the key ones. the vote itself will take place tomorrow during the evening voting block. and i can say for myself that i will support all reasonable amendments which retain the original philosophy of the whole proposal put forward by the commission. i reject any radical departure from this philosophy and believe that in the vote tomorrow, openness and rationality will prevail over protectionism and isolationism.
in writing. the transport of live animals to slaughterhouses is still a controversial topic. some colleagues continue to question the need to adopt a time limit for this type of transport. they are so blatantly ignoring the scientific studies that clearly say otherwise. they ignore the more than one million europeans who have signed the 8 hours petition, which calls for an end to the days-long transport of live animals to slaughterhouses. they ignore the demands of animal welfare non-profits, veterinarians and other professionals. they ignore the needs of european agriculture, which would benefit significantly from a more localised production. they ignore the written statement of the european parliament adopted in march 2012, when 395 meps supported the introduction of a limit for the transport of slaughter animals of a maximum of 8 hours. meps have been pushing for such a limit for 20 years. i therefore support the amendment which would listen to the wishes of europeans and end the needless suffering of animals, and i believe others will do the same.
mr president, i would like to ask commissioner tajani if he could inform us in his closing statement of the financial instruments he would like to use to bridge the gap between the fact that smes provide 70% or more of jobs and, on the other hand, only 4% of science and research. i think that is a contradiction that must be overcome, and i think it is also a contradiction that the small and mediumsized enterprises sector is the one where the technical equipment of the work is low. i would like to know what financial instruments the commission intends to use in the future to overcome this discrepancy.
madam president, commissioner, i too believe that the banks should be punished. but they are being punished for having, for decades, placed far more trust in the governments to which they lent their funds than in private businessmen. it's always been safer to lend to governments for their projects than to lend to private businesses. the result could have been nothing less than total collapse. i think that minister venezelos was very precise. the banking union is supposed to be a way to separate the borrowing of the states from the banking institutions. but that is impossible, because the banking union, the proposal we are debating here, will not automatically lead individual member states to act rationally all at once. it's not going to get them to reform very significantly at once what's almost unreformable. i'm afraid that at this point, banking union is not the way to go.
in writing. today's debate on the banking union, in particular on the framework for the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms and on deposit insurance schemes, has shown the need for a single solution. i believe that banks should be held accountable for their transactions. that is why i consider it important that taxpayers do not pay for the dubious transactions and irresponsible actions of banks. the banking union and the deposit insurance scheme can guarantee that savers' deposits and taxpayers' money are protected in crisis situations in the financial market. if there is another crisis, the banks themselves will have to pay for their mistakes.
the rapporteur, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, mr president, surveys from 2012 show that 27% of consumers believe that a large proportion of non-food consumer goods on the european union market are unsafe. moreover, the ever-changing challenges of global markets, complex supply chains or cross-border trade threaten consumer safety and may also undermine citizens' trust in the european union as such. that is why i would like to recall the very important principle of prudence, which the commission has unfortunately not included in its draft text. i consider it important to re-establish the precautionary principle as laid down in article 191 (2) tfeu. i welcome the fact that we have succeeded in defining the categories of so-called vulnerable consumers, namely children, the elderly and the disabled. i would also like to mention the rapex early warning system, which is a good example of consumer protection in the area of non-food products. as is the case with, for example, the rasff scheme in the food sector. the existing provisions in this area, together with the regulation on the safety of non-food consumer products, will lead to the creation of a certain cover which fills the gap in the existing union rules. it is therefore a broad legislative framework, rather horizontal in nature, intended to cover both existing products and, where appropriate, new products.
mr president, i have always worked very well with christel and i have great respect for her. however, when it comes to this directive, it must be said that the road to hell is paved with good intentions, because how else can you evaluate an idea that labels a dangerous product that may even remotely resemble food. god forbid that food should only smell. we're gonna have to ban fruit-flavored soaps and shampoos now. it is beyond my rational comprehension that a product which is not intended for children but which could be attractive to children by virtue of its appearance or packaging should also be labelled as dangerous. i don't want to imagine how many unhappy citizens will be when they find out that thanks to meps they can't afford their favourite product just because if children accidentally got their hands on it, they could win with it. i assume we're only discussing this idea today because it's our last meeting and we're not risking a fully justified defenestration. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. mr president, i am certainly not criticising the original proposal. we have been dealing with this proposal for more than five years in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. our chairman malcolm harbour emphasized that the biggest problem was then the negotiation itself and the negotiation of the compromise. i disagree with that conclusion. i agree with the principle of consumer protection.
in writing. i supported the resulting agreement with the council at first reading on the directive on the deployment of alternative fuels infrastructure. i consider the agreement to be a balanced compromise between the need to reduce europe's dependence on fossil fuels, which is embodied in the current white paper on transport, and the current state of infrastructure and technology for the development of alternative fuels in the individual member states. this will allow member states to adapt the development of the number of recharging points by 2020 to their own geographical and economic conditions. the commission notes that the measure is not selective, but that it is selective in nature. i welcome the fact that the agreement includes a more accommodating approach to the charging of electric vehicles than the original proposal. in addition to the approved socket type 2 standard, electric vehicles should also be allowed to be charged at charging points by users who already own an electric vehicle with different charging standards. the commission considers that the measure is compatible with the internal market under article 107 (3) (c) tfeu.
in writing. i regard the introduction of the ecall electronic system using the 112 emergency number, as part of the possibility of automatically calling for help in the event of a road accident, not only as a member but also as a doctor, as a contribution to health protection and as an important part of the possibility of increasing the chance of saving lives in serious road accidents. that's why i voted for it.
in writing. i supported the decision to introduce an interoperable eu-wide ecall service as it is another important step towards the launch of this automated safety system. the final text obliges member states to deploy the necessary ecall infrastructure on their territory at least 6 months before the application of the regulation on type-approval requirements for the deployment of the ecall in-vehicle system and in any event no later than 1 october 2017 for the proper reception and handling of ecalls. in the report i have put forward a guarantee that the handling of ecall calls is always free of charge for ecall users throughout the union. last but not least, i also consider it important to organise information campaigns to explain to citizens the benefits and functions of the new system and its data protection guarantees.
in writing. i voted in favour of the commission's initiative and of the report by mrs worthmann-kool. while road transport suffers from congestion, which causes economic losses and damages the environment, the inland waterway network still holds great potential. these advantages should, in my view, be continued. the measure adopted therefore aims to invest in environmental and innovation measures. unfortunately, the current trend in europe is a decline in the share of inland shipping in total transport, which needs to be reversed. only then could europe respond to transport challenges such as congestion, environmental impact and energy needs. without effective support for water transport, these objectives are at risk.
for the ecr group. madam president, the report before you is another in a series of measures to promote the mobility of workers between the member states of the european union and is therefore a significant improvement for those seeking employment outside their own country. unfortunately, we still face a number of barriers in this area today. for example, the time limit for acquiring so-called pension rights or the waiting period, or both, for outgoing workers in some countries is up to 5 years! in other countries, the minimum age for acquiring pension rights is set at 25 years or more for outgoing workers. yes, we agree that certain minimum criteria need to be set and we aim to reduce these deadlines significantly, to promote the mobility of workers and to promote their legal certainty. a key condition, which is fundamental to our group, remains that the rights of member states to organise their own pension systems must not be called into question. member states remain fully responsible for the organisation of these schemes and, when transposing this directive, are not required to introduce legislation providing for the establishment of supplementary pension schemes where a country does not wish to have them. respecting the specificities of individual labour markets in europe and legal traditions is a key issue.
for the ecr group. madam president, during the whole long debate on this directive, i have more and more the impression that it is a debate between those who really want to promote labour mobility and those who in principle want to prevent it. posting of workers plays an important role in the functioning of the single market. it not only facilitates cross-border economic activities, but also provides skilled workers, increases business efficiency and[nbsp ]is an important tool in the fight against structural unemployment in europe. it helps to fill temporary gaps in labour supply and demand in the current so-called skills shortages in sectors such as construction, which is probably the most affected by posting today, but also transport, the financial sector, it services and others. the proposal to[nbsp]enforce the broadcasting directive must therefore be seen in its broader context as promoting the development of the internal market in services, promoting labour mobility and promoting the creation and maintenance of jobs. we support the proper implementation and enforcement of the existing posting of workers directive. access to information on working conditions and effective administrative cooperation between the host and sending authorities are very important in this case. let me emphasise this: our primary task is to create the conditions for economic growth, and this will create jobs. we must put all our decisions to the test. secondly, we must do everything possible to ensure that the new rules do not create unnecessary administrative or financial burdens and barriers and disproportionate demands for both businesses and workers. because then our legislation would actually impede the mobility of workers. and we should always keep in mind the specificities of the labour markets in different countries. the ecr will support this proposal.
the rapporteur. - mr president, we are adopting the last of the ten technical directives of the harmonization package which will make it possible to bring safer products to the european market in a new, simplified and consistent legal environment. the agreement with the council and the commission was constructive, but complications after two years of negotiations raised comitological issues. we finally settled everything in favour of parliament's powers. but on one point we have made a compromise with the council and parliament is issuing a separate statement on this, which i will not read for time reasons but which will be published in the official journal. this is parliament's role in the european commission's expert committees. ladies and gentlemen, a number of improvements to the functioning of the institutions have been agreed recently under the interinstitutional agreement. but there are still points of contention. therefore, i appeal to you to resolve these matters honestly in the next legislative term.
madam president, the commission has presented us with a simple rule which leaves member states free to decide how they will reduce the consumption of single-use plastic bags. parliament has completely rejected the principles of the commission's original proposal with its amendments. it is precisely these instances of creative legislative invention that are the seed of citizens' distrust of the european union's institutions. we really think that the people have sent us to parliament to tell them whether they should put their fruit and vegetables in paper bags or plastic bags. i think we all understand the seriousness of the plastic problem. but i feel that some of us don't want to see that there are a lot of states, businesses, but also citizens themselves who are aware of the problem and are trying to act responsibly. we completely forget about the freedom of the individual and his rational and responsible behavior. in the end, citizens need to be protected from parliament itself more than from the commission's ideas.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, a few moments ago we commemorated the outbreak of the first world war. we discussed the lessons of both world wars in the 20th century. now we have had almost seventy years of peace. that peace is based on respect for human rights, civil rights, civil freedoms, democracy and the rule of law, both internally and externally. the ukrainians decided to join our european values. this is what the young people demonstrated for on maidan, and that is the will of the population. i think that we should – and will – support those values. ukrainian society should have the right to decide which way it wants to go. that society should have the right to engage in dialogue – meaningful dialogue where all sections of ukrainian society are involved – both in the west of the country, and of course, the russian speakers in the east. however, as we saw in crimea and we are seeing again in the east of ukraine, its big eastern neighbour is not happy with those developments. the annexation of crimea took place against all principles of international law, against the united nations charter, against the final act of the helsinki accords of 1975 and also against the principles of the budapest memorandum of 1994. we are now seeing a similar type of scenario in the east, and we are very concerned because this is not only a matter for ukraine or for relations between ukraine and russia, but it is also a concern for all europeans, for the peaceful order we established on the continent after 1945. our group strongly condemns this behaviour. tomorrow, there will be chance in geneva to discuss all those issues and look for ways to solve these issues by dialogue, diplomacy or political means and that is the way we prefer. so we wish for progress tomorrow and if progress is not made we have a resolution here where further steps are described.
in writing. the new draft regulation aims to simplify and clarify the legal framework applicable to official controls in the agri-food chain. this is to harmonise the principles of official controls throughout the agri-food chain (food and feed, plant health, plant reproductive material, animal health, animal welfare and use of plant protection products) and to set out requirements for the performance of other control activities. i voted in favor of the bill.
in writing. i supported the european parliament's position on the consumer product safety regulation, because higher safety standards will strengthen the protection of european consumers. the proposal introduces uniform rules on general safety requirements for all non-food consumer goods in the internal market and lays down detailed obligations for all operators involved in the supply chain. this is to give consumers greater confidence that a product they have bought in another member state of the european union has undergone the same rigorous safety checks. i welcome the fact that the proposal takes account of vulnerable consumers and thus places higher demands on the safety of products when they are expected to be used, in particular by young children. finally, i welcome, in addition to strengthening market surveillance, strict sanctions against companies that sell dangerous products and thus endanger the health of citizens. it is now up to the member states not to block the final approval of this consumer-important regulation any further.
in the case of the european union, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's environmental policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not in line with the principles of the treaty on european union. again, this is a matter that goes far beyond the borders of one country. the control of trade and the establishment of rules in trade in these animals and plants, and in particular their effectiveness, is, in my view, appropriately complemented by this proposal, including the powers of the commission. for these reasons, i supported the proposal.
in writing. the use of plastic bags in the european union is disproportionate. each year, about 100 billion plastic bags are used, and if no action is taken, the number is expected to rise to 111 billion by 2020. the excessive consumption of single-use plastic carrier bags is both a very inefficient use of resources and has negative environmental consequences. every year, 8 billion plastic bags end up as waste, polluting the eu's environment, including the seas. i am active in environmental organizations and try to prevent pollution as much as possible. i'm actively involved in the brontosaurus movement, trying to pass on environmentally responsible behavior to young people. since environmental protection cannot be limited to education, legislative measures are also needed that lead directly to its protection. that's why i supported a report that limits the consumption of lightweight plastic shopping bags. supporting this regulation is the least i could do today in the legislative process.
in writing. protecting biodiversity by identifying harmful invasive species is, in my view, a significant step towards preserving the original fauna and flora for future generations. the very content of the commission proposal, which is aimed at cooperation between member states in this area, i consider to be correct. as in other cases, the element of possible cross-border spread of invasive species plays an important role. this, of course, implies the need for international cooperation. the fact that the list can be updated effectively and extended beyond the 50 species proposed by the european commission is a positive development. i therefore supported the report presented on the introduction, planting and spread of invasive alien species.
mr president, one of the sources of finance that some claim does not exist in the union is the higher taxation of the explicitly harmful high-frequency and high-speed financial transactions. their share of the stock market's turnover is growing dramatically. so are the returns on financial capital. on the other hand, we are continuing our austerity measures. most of it involves ordinary people. and they actually paid to save the financial sector. why are we afraid to touch the taps of the money pipes? why are we literally just shoving the booming profits of financial capital from risky trades with a symbolic tax of 0.1% on securities and 0.01% on derivatives? and we're still debating whether to take the plunge. just out of fear of capital leaving the union? we talk about democratic politics for the people, yet we are ruled by the financial circles. taxes on speculative financial transactions are an opportunity to raise funds without burdening the vast majority of the union's population. they're already tightening their belts.
in writing. honey has long been recognized as a product beneficial to human health and is well known to the general population. this was also the subject of extensive discussions across the european parliament. for example, determining what is and is not a natural component of honey has shown that this issue is not indifferent to anyone. the proposal takes account of a number of aspects, including possible impacts on small and large beekeepers, professionals and amateurs, appropriate labelling to provide quality information to consumers and others. although i consider the proposal useful and necessary, i have some reservations, particularly in the sections concerning genetically modified food and its labelling. for these reasons, i abstained from voting.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the european court of justice judgment of 8 april concerning data retention (c[nbsp ]293/12 and c[nbsp ]594/12) (2014/2698(rsp)).
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on religious freedoms and cultural diversity (2014/2690(rsp)).
i have received one motion for a resolution tabled in accordance with rule 110(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 17 april 2014.
the next item is the report by andreas schwab, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on certain rules governing actions for damages under national law for infringements of the competition law provisions of the member states and of the european union (com(2013)0404 – c7-0170/2013 – 2013/0185(cod)) (a7-0089/2014).
the next item is the report by bart staes, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1013/2006 on shipment of waste (com(2013)0516 – c7-0217/2013 – 2013/0239(cod)) (a7-0069/2014).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on conditions to be complied with to pursue the occupation of road transport operator (regulation (ec) no 1071/2009) by brian simpson, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism (o-000032/2014 – b7-0113/2014) (2014/2700(rsp)).
mr. chairman, i had a visitor in my office the other day. he was a truck driver who had returned home after several months on the road and told me about his experiences and the harsh conditions that actually exist on european roads in the transport of goods. the working and living conditions of drivers in road freight transport are unacceptable. the control mechanisms that would monitor compliance with the approved rules are unfortunately ineffective. drivers who are interested in complying with the rules on driving and resting in road transport are then placed at a disadvantage and factually discriminated against in the labour market. the reason is unfair competition, coupled with pressure from transport companies on drivers, who are often forced to accept conditions if they do not want to lose their jobs. the current situation, which goes hand in hand with driver fatigue and the danger of causing a traffic accident, is therefore considered to be intolerable. i therefore ask, on behalf of honest drivers and hauliers, what action the commission is planning to take to help improve enforcement of driving and rest periods in the member states and to prevent social dumping and, as already mentioned, slave-like conditions.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on prolongation of detention by member states of illegally staying third-country nationals beyond the 18-month time limit in violation of the return directive (2014/2701(rsp)).
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i had the honour to serve as a standing rapporteur for this fta in the committee on international trade (inta). this was a great honour for me for two reasons. one, of course, is tangible: vietnam is a very prosperous and hopeful emerging market and trading partner for the european union. the second reason is more symbolic. only a few people know that the vietnamese community in my country, the czech republic, is, in relative numbers, the largest vietnamese community of all the 28 member states. so this was another reason i was glad to take on that task. as rapporteur, i was pleased to see that these negotiations are progressing well and that common ground has already been found between both parties on several chapters. i also hope that mutual and beneficial agreement will be reached by the end of this year. in the international trade committee we have adopted a balanced resolution which aims to contribute to the success of these negotiations. we have clarified a few priorities with respect to these negotiations, and i would like to stress some of them. we want to see that all provisions negotiated in this fta are fully wto-compatible and that substantial market access is achieved with the full elimination of most tariff and non-tariff barriers. we would also like to see that both parties respect each other’s right to regulate, including on the provision of public services, that fair competition rules are agreed to maintain a level playing field between foreign and domestic service providers – and especially state-owned enterprises, that strong provisions are agreed on transparency and dispute settlement to enhance legal predictability and certainty, that both parties are committed to the enforcement of intellectual property rights and sanitary and phytosanitary safety, and – last but not least – that both parties would promote respect for, compliance with, and enforcement of international standards in the area of human rights, labour rights and environmental agreements. i would like to thank the commission for the work done and to thank all my colleagues and shadow rapporteurs for their very constructive cooperation. i hope that this will be adopted unanimously in plenary.
in writing. as also stated in the explanatory memorandum to the proposal, the increase in the number of new psychoactive substances and their availability on the internal market of the european union also entails the need for an effective response by the competent authorities in the context of the protection of the health of citizens. at the same time, however, it is necessary to maintain a legal market for these substances and to allow their controlled use, for example for scientific purposes. the proposal appropriately addresses the detection of new psychoactive substances on the market, and addresses the identification and assessment of the degree of risk. although i find the proposal very useful, both from the point of view of the member and from the point of view of the doctor, i find the parts concerning the commission's powers somewhat problematic. for these reasons, i abstained from the final vote.
for the group gue/ngl. madam president, i welcome the fact that this subject is being discussed in the european parliament. however, i would like to stress that serious negotiations should have started much earlier, i.e. before the conclusion of the association agreement, i.e. before november 2013. the association agreement is one of the fundamental factors that contributed to the open military conflict and civil war. the european union, and in particular its commissioners, and the european parliament, which did not intervene in time, played a major role in exacerbating the situation. in any case, we should have monitored the situation, taken objective views and also sent observers in time to assess the situation objectively. we are currently facing war on the european continent, and this is in the period of commemorating the 100th anniversary of the beginning of the first world war. at the same time, we are facing fascism and a humanitarian catastrophe. the unfortunate policy of the eastern partnership has among other things led half a million citizens of ukraine to seek safety and refuge in the russian federation. it would be good to ask these people what they want ukraine to be like. on the basis of these facts, i believe that the european union should set up a commission to investigate crimes such as the sniper attack on khreščatyka in kiev, the odessa murders and, last but not least, the excessive use of force in southeastern ukraine. i consider it essential that the european parliament calls on the ukrainian state authorities to reform the constitution in a way that respects the historical specificities of the regions. the european parliament must insist on preventing the ethnic cleansing which unfortunately is to be expected. let me also express my fundamental disagreement with the threat of banning a parliamentary party such as the communist party of ukraine. i consider this step to be a manifestation of a dangerous tendency towards fascism ... (the president cut off the speaker.) (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. i think you got the translation wrong, i said it was one of the factors.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to ask you a question. has the european union and our european parliament shouldered the brunt of the responsibility for the ukraine crisis? do we realize that the security system of europe, built up for almost 70 years, has been hit? why is our approach to the russian federation's violation of international law so ineffective? i see one serious cause here. the traditional members do not understand the historical experience of the countries of the former soviet bloc. this also applies to ukraine. i visited maidan in kiev several times and i understood that the ukrainians were not interested in the association agreement with the european union. they don't want to be controlled by the newly emerging soviet union. their historical memory doesn't allow it. they face starvation, the gulag, deportation. let us consider, ladies and gentlemen, that we, the former soviet colonies, are not losing our historical experience.
commissioner, as a libertarian, i see free trade as a fundamental expression of human freedom and as a condition for prosperity and peaceful cooperation among nations. so i'm definitely for free trade with the united states. i want us to be able to import goods from the united states of america without tariffs and other barriers, so that our companies can freely export goods to america, so that we don't have to pay extra money every time the goods cross the border. but i don't think a contract like that can be this big. a treaty that is really just about free trade, in my judgment, has to go both ways. so i suspect the proposed treaty will not be about free trade, but about new regulations. i want free trade, really free trade, with the united states of america, but also with ukraine, israel, morocco, russia - simply put, with the rest of the world. i am afraid that the european commission does not want this. the c.l.a. is bringing billions into her budget that she doesn't want to miss. i want the commission to hear this liberal voice for free trade. if you are negotiating new restrictions instead of free trade, remember that there is an alternative to the bureaucratic and over-regulated approach of the european union in the form of the european free trade association (efta), which may gradually become a more attractive option for many countries.
commissioner, i thank you for your work. we all know what's at stake. if we make a deal with the united states of america, we will create the largest free trade zone in the world. and we'll be able to compete with other economic players, especially from asia. but there is something more important. are we not concerned about low economic growth and high unemployment? this treaty, if it's negotiated well, is a chance to solve those problems. your task, commissioner, is to negotiate a wording that removes all obstacles for our entrepreneurs, protects their interests and innovation, but at the same time - and this is no less important - does not lower the quality standards and the level of protection of our consumers. commissioner, there's a big job for you. our citizens don't understand these negotiations, they don't know what these negotiations are about, and they're afraid of them. we need to increase transparency and change our communication strategy. because we can only create an effective transatlantic partnership if we have the citizens on our side.
in writing. the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) is fraught with uncertainties. we are assured that the impact of the agreement will be positive in general: it will increase the rate of economic growth of both contracting parties, create a high number of new jobs. it is not clear, however, why it is being discussed in such a tightly controlled manner, away from the public whose lives it is supposedly going to make much better. we are assured that the treaty will not lead to a reduction in the standards currently in force in the field of food quality and safety, the status of employees, environmental protection, etc. but no one gave any guarantee that this would actually be the case when the small group of people negotiating the treaty were no longer in office. so virtually no one is responsible for any adverse effects of the contract. the treaty is supposed to include a clause on arbitration between large multinational companies and states, without anyone explaining why the existing institutions of the rule of law, which all eu member states have, are not sufficient in this matter. strange is also the attitude of the negotiators towards the critics of all these ambiguities. they are accused of being irrational and overly emotional, all because they chose to exercise their civil right to information, which in an open society should be taken for granted. unfortunately, the way the most important trade agreement in modern history is being negotiated is undermining the credibility of the european institutions' promises to reduce the democratic deficit.
the question posed by the blue card. mr president, i just wanted to point out that colleagues who talk about improving the quality of education and eliminating the causes of unemployment are of course also right. but the european union is at the moment looking at how to help find a place, find a practice for those who are less able to find work. i appreciate the youth guarantee programme precisely because it helps employers to open new jobs, that's the experience of the czech republic. i would appeal to the commissioner to examine the effectiveness of this programme, which is the main thing at the moment.
the question posed by the blue card. it's a question for my colleagues in spain. i wanted to ask my colleagues, when they are so passionately talking about how the european union is doing nothing and how these funds will be misused: what will you do to ensure that the funds are not misused, as a member of the european parliament?
mr president, the issue of youth unemployment is one of the key problems of our time. in my country, the czech republic, before joining the european union, it was said that we had to grow up to become legitimate and equal partners for our neighbours in the west. but the dreams of adulthood were replaced by the reality of forced structural adjustment and rising unemployment. the cynicism with which the neoliberal european institutions have chosen to treat the southern european states shows the true face of the european dream. the millions of unemployed in greece, portugal, italy, spain and other countries are an evil that must be confronted. europe cannot afford to have a lost generation of young people. we cannot afford to continue with neoliberal policies and austerity policies. that is why we are also putting forward a proposal which will take clear, concrete measures, such as strong monitoring of working conditions, which we, ladies and gentlemen, have not even discussed today. that's part of the complex of measures we have to deal with. we're not gonna solve this with one program that's also underfunded. the only way to solve this is through a set of measures for young people and money that we don't give to companies and banks, but to young people as a whole.
for the ppe group. madam speaker, i will be voting for the resolution concerning mrs. marjam yahya ibrahim. the death penalty and the punishment of a hundred strokes on the back of a pregnant woman is barbaric. the verdict is irrelevant even under sharia law. mrs. marjam was raised as a christian and therefore cannot be tried for apostasy. i am pleased that the european parliament is considering the case of mrs marjam jahja ibrahim. especially at a time when ethnic and sectarian hatreds are fueling new and new armed conflicts in the world. the verdict is an extreme manifestation of radical islamism that casts a dark light on islam as a great world civilization. political radical islamism and islamic faith are two different things.
madam president, the entire international community is shocked by what is happening in sudan today. maryam yahya ibrahim was guilty of marrying a christian man as the daughter of an ethiopian christian woman. in may, the pregnant mary was sentenced to a hundred lashes and the death penalty, and it was not yet stated that mary had to deliver her child in literal chains. there is one mary, but we have to ask ourselves, how many mary's are there in sudan and around the world? human rights, including freedom of religion, must be respected across national borders. the cotonou agreement was mentioned, but i would also like to point out that there is a recommendation of the council of the european union of june 2013 that makes development aid conditional on explicit respect for religious freedom. marjam, we in europe do not forget about you!
mr president, i wanted to say that i voted in favour of this, but i must stress that i have serious reservations about what has been said here and what is written in the document. i do not want to give money only to solve these things in the short term, that is to say, to create jobs for young people, but i want to do it systematically, that is to say, in the long term, and to use examples of good practice, for example in austria, germany or switzerland, where the dual education system operates. countries that do not systematically and on a long-term basis provide education for young people are now faced with high unemployment rates among this group.
commissioner, you yourself have demonstrated the seriousness of the situation on the european market with your figures. in monitoring the impact of the embargo on the european market, we are forced to conclude that both these short-term measures and our long-term trade strategy need to be significantly adjusted. unfortunately, the compensation and other measures of the european commission do not cover all the affected enterprises and it is already clear that these measures will not be sufficient. it is clear that the embargo also affects those companies which do not export directly to the russian federation. i therefore ask you to take into account the overall impact of the measures adopted on the european union's single market, the common agricultural policy and the common commercial policy. at this point, your close cooperation with dg trade is essential to avoid flooding the european market. it is essential to look for markets outside europe, not just for agriculture but for all sectors affected by the embargo. we need to have a plan b in case this kind of situation happens again. our businesses can't suffer if we have the tools to prevent it.
in writing. i appreciate the commission's swift response to the situation in the agricultural sector following the introduction of an embargo on imports of agricultural products, in particular fruit and vegetables and dairy products, into russia. the specific measures are aimed at mitigating the impact on the internal market, but at the same time they are only transitional measures. however, the pressure on the internal market may also mean that the internal market is destabilised by an increase in secondary imports. it is necessary to prevent price dumping and to ensure product quality in order to protect consumers. it is necessary to continue to monitor the situation closely and to target compensation in a targeted and effective manner, also with a view to the medium and long term.
mr president, at this meeting we will be debating the european union's budget for 2015 of some eur 150 billion. let's remember that this is 150 billion euros taken from the pockets of the citizens, that it's not money that fell from the sky. many of you may think that the money redistributed through brussels is helping to make life better in europe. i think that's very presumptuous, and i think the opposite. i believe that redistributing money in this way is damaging the economy, that it increases corruption and that it increases the national debt. first, subsidies are money that an entrepreneur gets at the expense of someone else. the winner in the market is therefore the one who receives the subsidies, not the one who offers better services to consumers. the more money that gets redistributed, the more corruption there is. and third, it's true that the poorer countries in particular are borrowing more and more just to get the money to co-finance these european grants. in short, i think that this redistribution of money is bad for the economy and i think we could do without... (the president withdrew the floor.)
mr president, first of all, i find it highly regrettable that baroness ashton is not among us. i wonder what better, at the end of her term of office, she has to do than to be present at such a serious, highly sensitive and important debate as this. with all due respect to you, commissioner füle, that is also how i would like to interpret the very general remarks that you have made, because otherwise, given what happened just a few days ago, i find them somewhat inappropriate. i regret that the leader of the ‘advocates of mr putin’ group here in parliament is not present, but let me remind you of the fact that i come from a country which in 1938 faced a serious threat and that, due to an agreement reached in a city not far from the czech republic, basically we were left alone. you might say that this is an inappropriate comparison but what we face today is, first of all, the ratification of an important agreement, in fact the same type of agreement that i had the privilege to be a part of when we were negotiating with the european communities in 1990-91. i am still fully aware of how important it has been economically, and how important it was politically and psychologically. today i could say that the ukrainians are in a similar situation, but no they are not: they are in a worse situation. in 1990-91 we were basically surfing an unstoppable wave. ukraine today is still in very unsafe waters. i do not need to remind you that we are facing a situation which constitutes aggression, a breach of international law, with thousands of people killed, russian forces in ukraine, and other measures characteristic of certain services in russia. i find it highly regrettable that, just a few days ago, it was agreed in trilateral talks, i.e. in the presence of the russians, that the implementation of the trade agreement would be postponed. if i look at the international press what does it say? russia has 2 400 amendments to the draft agreement. do we really think that one year from now russia will not still have 2 400 amendments: that russia will finally be satisfied with the fact that we are concluding this agreement? no. i think we have given up on certain standards and certain values. i think that we have failed. i must say that on the sanctions, on the foreign policy side, we have done well, but we have made an enormous mistake in the presence of the russian negotiators. that has to be rectified. i hope that we will ratify the agreement in full today.
mr. chairman, i would like to agree with what viktoria shilova of the anti-war movement said that the ukrainians have replaced the government of thieves, which was under yanukovych, with a government of murderers, which is under poroshenko. it must be said that the current economic situation is catastrophic, that the national bank of ukraine is currently in a state of technical default, that 35 mines are closed in eastern ukraine and in 3 weeks ukraine will not have enough energy coal. the energy crisis is imminent and this is an issue that is also important to us in the european parliament, as is the fact that there are hundreds of companies waiting for a sensible economic programme that european companies could offer them. i am convinced that we should go down this road and realize that we should create a group in the european parliament to support ukraine. that means not supporting those who are in power today, and where there is actually a third of the fascists in government, but supporting the ukrainian people and ukraine to move in a reasonable direction. so the election is a big opportunity and it's not going to be an easy task. we should try to monitor the elections, because there are 32,006 polling stations.
mr president, i voted against this trade agreement between the european union and ukraine, because i believe that this agreement is disadvantageous, above all, for ukraine. i am definitely in favour of free trade, but ukraine is committed to accepting the entire acquis, all the regulations of the european union. this treaty divided ukraine politically, divided it in november, caused the maidan movement, because what was advantageous for the western part of the country to trade with the european union duty-free, was at the same time disadvantageous for the east of the country, because in this part it is difficult to trade with russia and other countries of the former soviet union. that is why i would be in favour of a free trade agreement, but i regret that ukraine has to accept the whole burdensome acquis, which is harmful especially for the poorer countries of the european union and will be all the more harmful for a country like ukraine.
in writing. today i voted against the conclusion of an association agreement between the eu and ukraine. in my opinion, the vote on this agreement should have taken place after the parliamentary elections in ukraine in october. it is not possible to invoke the democratic impact of this agreement if we do not know which political forces will win the elections in question. the european parliament should not issue a blank cheque to any country in this respect.
in writing. war has returned to europe, to the very borders of the european union. moreover, it is a war that is not only cruel but also unnecessary. a fratricidal war. i'm highlighting another aspect of the conflict. just three weeks ago, the presidents of russia and ukraine, the representatives of the european union and the eurasian economic union met in minsk. direct negotiations have begun between the new kiev government and the rebels in eastern ukraine. the first agreements were born, allowing to stop the bloodshed, exchange of prisoners, reform of the constitutional system of ukraine. politicians in the 21st century should be able to resolve even the most dramatic differences in society and among themselves through negotiation, not through gunfire, not through anti-government coups. no physical violence. the war in ukraine is an example of a war that can't solve anything. can killing people remove the ethnic divisions of ukraine, eradicate the wild social differences in this country, stop the decline of the economy or the split of the church? war only deepens these differences, no matter what the outcome. in a fratricidal war, there can be no winner. everyone loses! we may not agree on the very poor work done by the european commissioners in preparing the association agreement, we may not agree on the danger to democracy posed by the rise of oligarchs, and we may have different views on the implementation of the association agreement. let's not look for the guilty, let's look for the path to peace in ukraine. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. today's vote must be a clear response to the current situation in ukraine, whose citizens are already suffering the consequences of blackmail via russian gas. ukrainian schools have introduced a six-day work week in anticipation of the inability to provide instruction in the winter months, and ukrainian households are already without hot water. the european union must now offer a clear perspective for future cooperation and thus contribute to the perception of the european union by the inhabitants of ukrainian cities and towns as a responsible partner ready to respond adequately and thus contribute to resolving the current situation. i am convinced that the conclusion of an association agreement between the european union and ukraine is a necessary and positive step which will broaden the scope for supporting ukraine in the long term.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because i think it is a small step for the european union and ukraine, but a big step for all of us, a big step for peace and stability in ukraine. i know what we experienced as czechs after the approval of a similar agreement, and i also remember the skeptical discussion within the so-called old eu states, who said that it would threaten security, stability, it would have negative connotations for us, the newly arrived countries of the european union. no negatives have been fulfilled, ladies and gentlemen. i therefore believe that it will not be fulfilled in the case of ukraine either and that this agreement will indeed lead to the prosperity of the european union and to the prosperity of ukraine.
madam president, the council is proposing to reduce funding in the horizon 2020 research support programme and i support this proposal for reduction, but perhaps for different reasons than the council. let me explain why. i have two reasons for doing so: firstly, in my view, the programme is contrary to one of the main principles enshrined in the treaties, namely the principle of subsidiarity. i think it is clear that the investment in research is best done by the person concerned, the company, and not by the european commission. secondly, the cliché has been heard here several times, perhaps a thousand times, that we need investment in research to promote growth, employment. why do i say it's a cliché? that's probably true, but it depends a lot on who's investing in the research. i think it's for companies to invest. who do you think invented the microphone, the lightbulb, the cell phone, the wi-fi? you think these things came from a grant that some official redistributed? no, it was always the companies that expected a return on their investment that invested in research. so i guess i'll end with a line that sir humphrey said on a show, which is, "subsidies are for what people don't want, because what they want, they buy". so i would recommend to the council to go even further and cancel the entire horizon 2020 programme.
in writing many people have said that europe is small and its competitiveness on the world stage is not growing as much as it needs to keep pace with the others. that is why we must gain a comparative advantage over the rest of the world by investing in europe's future. invest in science, invest in research, invest in the development of europe's potential. at a time when some companies in europe are struggling to survive and are unable to finance research projects, it is the eu that must kick-start their activity. i believe that horizon 2020 is not only a step in the right direction, but above all a necessary step to ensure the eu's prosperity. the amount the eu is counting on for horizon 2020 is not negligible in the budget, but it is not infinite either. the allocation of funds must therefore be targeted, proportionate and transparent. under no circumstances may they be misused.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, on behalf of the alde group, i am here to say that, for us, the digital market is not a future project: it is here today. it is already affecting all economic sectors and their value chains. this is the biggest challenge to the economy and employment. however, today the digital market is not a single one in europe. it is broken up into 28 national markets, each defended by outdated protectionist policies and regulations. we must eliminate these barriers and we must modernise and simplify rules for online and digital transactions. national rules do not work when a business or consumer pays more for physical goods because his ip address is in berlin instead of prague. national rules do not work for digital goods or services especially where there is no logical or physical reason to block the free exchange and free movement of those goods. but today we have 28 different online rule books. we need harmonised rules, where appropriate, and increased mutual recognition on access to digital goods and services. a czech should be able to buy music from france without hitting the firewall of obsolete copyright and data protection laws. we also need a clear european framework for the digital market on consumer and contract law. without it, how can all european citizens trust that they are being treated equally? how can our smes truly work across borders? the digital single market must not be merely a goal on paper. it is a policy that every young european can understand. it is the way to show the value of the european project to our businesses and our economy.
commissioner, madam president, the european parliament has been engaged in a very intense debate on the digital single market over the last year, including our vote on roaming in april. the digital market has enormous economic potential and at the same time has a secondary impact on the development of many sectors. various studies predict its potential for future growth. we know that the digital single market still faces many barriers. the reality is that conditions vary across member states, for logical historical reasons, but often with purposeful barriers to protect the commercial interests of different companies. in general, therefore, i can only welcome the european commission's stated ambition to complete the digital single market. but there are also some pitfalls. we can't over-regulate the market. it may increase the financial burden on firms in the digital market and excessive legislative ambition could hold back further investment. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to provide the commission with a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the community institutions and bodies and on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the commission. these are broadband infrastructure, data security including the cloud, protection of digital networks and also stimulation of innovation and new technologies.
commissioner, the debate today is all about the enormous opportunities, the potential for innovation, the benefits for growth and employment, but also about the challenges posed by the current technological breakthrough. from the consumer's point of view, the digital market cannot be just about removing barriers to buying goods and services online. it must also be about consumer confidence. not just what theoretical rights they have, but also whether they can actually claim them if, for example, they have purchased a substandard product or service. in this context, it is important to fully implement and apply the legislative acts already adopted. we must also pay particular attention to eliminating discriminatory practices, which are unfortunately still a common reality in the internal market. limiting payment options, delivering goods or differentiating prices on the basis of nationality or country of origin does not make the internal market look fair. the establishment of a consumer-friendly and responsible digital internal market will therefore rightly be one of the main tasks of the new commission.
madam president, i believe that at the un summit in new york, we must call on all developed and populous nations to join the commitment to reduce co2. without a uniform approach, a very uneven economic situation is created, which is mainly contributed to by, among others, the european union countries with a large share of industrial production. the reduction of co2 will remain only a symbol of the search for new carbon-free technologies. we must abandon our ideological approach and concentrate on the search for new sources of energy. the ideological approach of some countries is a vicious circle and a dead end at the same time. we don't need to fight climate change, which has always been happening, will always be happening, and is completely beyond the reach of civilized means. we need to secure resources and energy for future generations and to tackle energy poverty. it is necessary to secure resources that do not significantly damage key environmental components and that are affordable. this is the position i expect to be taken by the member states and the commission at the un climate summit in new york in a few days' time.
in writing. the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) is a generally welcomed agreement that aims to provide opportunities for economic growth and employment on both sides of the atlantic. the ttip agreement with the us has similarly attractive objectives. however, the two agreements share a number of common problems. the isds mechanism is also proposed under ceta as a mechanism for investment dispute settlement. but again, it is relevant to ask who will actually benefit from this mechanism? are bureaucratic and unaccountable officials trying to sell out european interests to the commission, as they have done with ttip and as they wanted to do with acta? just so they can make a mental "fuck you" about the task of making a trade deal? in both cases, the incorporation of the isds mechanism is a requirement of the other party, not the eu. the european parliament and its members have the task of ensuring that the european union's activities are in line with the interests of its citizens. the non-transparent arbitrations enabled by the isds mechanism are clearly not in the interest of citizens. i am therefore against the inclusion of the isds mechanism in ceta, just as i am against ttip. this peaceful incorporation of arbitration into ceta is only an unnecessary threat to its ratification by the european parliament.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i am not going to ask for a blue-card question. i would like instead to point out some areas that are crucial in this debate. on monday you will have noticed that the oecd changed its forecast for the eurozone, cutting the growth forecast for this year to less than one percentage point – to just 0.8% – and we have seen countries in the eurozone having to implement incredibly difficult austerity measures, for example ireland, greece and portugal. the effect of the measures on citizens in these countries is all too plain to see. there have been worrying developments lately in some larger eurozone economies, with france and italy pushing for more flexibility in their fiscal rules and for their economies as their economies get into difficulty. therefore, i would like to ask: is it the case that the eu fiscal rules are to be followed strictly by relatively small economies whereas they can suddenly be interpreted in a more flexible way when larger countries threaten to flout them, or will the commission interpret the rules strictly no matter which countries are involved? to my mind, it is also crucial for the eurozone’s credibility among non-eurozone countries that the same clear rules apply to all eurozone member states. it is clear too that eurozone decisions inevitably have an impact on non-eurozone countries. my question therefore is: how will you make sure that the eurozone does not act as an isolated bloc? how can you ensure that the eurozone member states consider the consequences of their decisions on non-euro countries?
the question posed by the blue card. mr. chairman, thank you for mr. lamberts' very passionate speech. since i teach at the university, i would like to ask him one question: can he explain to me how investments in energy will ensure the prosperity of the euro area? in short, clearly, in three points.
for the alde group. madam president, as a member of the committee on employment and social affairs, i am very close to the subject of youth employment and i consider improving the situation in this area to be a key priority of my work. the gaps between the member states with the lowest and highest youth unemployment rates remain extremely wide and it is good that the european commission and the italian presidency are focusing their attention on regions with high unemployment. for example, in the czech republic, youth unemployment under 25 is almost three times the national unemployment rate, placing the czech republic among the better-performing eu countries. in tackling this problem, we must not forget two things: firstly, the potential of european labour mobility, which in my view remains untapped. the european union's workforce is about 216 million people, but only 7.5 million of them work within the european union abroad. young people are the ones most willing to move for work. the second problem to be solved is that european enterprises are forced to provide skilled labour directly, by recruiting in schools and by retraining themselves and at their own expense, because they cannot rely on a functioning system. i welcome the efforts of businesses and schools across europe to restore prestige to craft and technical education. market-driven training is the way to ensure that companies have a sufficient number of skilled workers in the future, while at the same time providing young people with the knowledge that the labour market demands. my intention is to help connect successful businesses with young people who are interested in education and actively looking after their future careers. i will not support passive support systems and unmotivated mass welfare payments. not only does it not systematically address the problem of unemployment, but it does not provide individuals or societies with the prospect of a quality and full life. (the rapporteur has agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer to a blue-card question. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for your question. we must clearly distinguish between mobility and precariousness. i spoke of mobility, which is precisely the mobility of young people's opportunities to go abroad to work, to have the same conditions and to be able to find suitable work in other member states too.
the question posed by the blue card. madam president, thank you for your very emotional remarks here. madam, would you be willing to have coffee with me sometime so i can explain to you what the dual system is that works in germany, austria and italy? then maybe you'll swap the fiery conversations here or the statements for facts and a way to solve it.
the question posed by the blue card. madam president, i have just one short, concise question. you're talking about destroying isis, and i want to know how you envision destroying, i mean destroying, isis.
mr president, thank you for being able to pronounce my name so well, and thank you to my colleagues for the debate today. that debate was truly one of the best i have had in my time as a member of this parliament. i just wanted to say one final message. over three thousand people, not a thousand, over three thousand people from the european union, according to intelligence, are fighting in syria or iraq on the side of war criminals who are committing genocide. and we should send them a clear message that there will be no amnesty for criminals who kill citizens here and that their return, their return to the countries of the european union with impunity, is not possible.
mr president, israel has faced and has faced in recent weeks, quite unquestionably, attacks on its territorial integrity and on the very essence of its existence. and that's because in palestine we have two currents, one that wants to compromise and is willing to seek a peaceful solution, and the other that doesn't want to compromise and whose only goal is to destroy the state of israel, and that is hamas. since the european union is sending quite a lot of money to gaza, i think it is time to ask the european institutions, the council and the commission, for some kind of impact study, whether these funds, the humanitarian and development aid we are sending there, have any positive impact on the peace process or not, and whether these funds are not even being misused by those who then attack the state of israel with rockets. because if it were, it would be a scandal. the european union can only support those who really want a peaceful solution, not those who want to continue the war.
- the author. madam president, the violation of human rights in azerbaijan is unfortunately a proven fact. i say this, unfortunately, mainly because azerbaijan is an eastern partnership country, a country of great importance for the building of relations between the european union and the countries of the south caucasus. the authors of the resolution were aware of this, and the text is drafted in a balanced agreement between the representatives of all the groups. the draft resolution mainly lists cases of political prisoners in azerbaijan. let me briefly highlight one of them, ladies and gentlemen. this is the case of imprisoned lawyer intigam aliyev, a defender of the politically persecuted. his case is particularly troubling to me. intigam aliyev recently received the homo homini award in prague from the people in need foundation, the most important czech non-governmental organization. please, ladies and gentlemen, support this resolution in today's vote.
for the group gue/ngl madam president, i was very pleased to hear martin schulz speak yesterday. i understood him to mean that it took germany more than 70 years to come to terms with its tragic past. today we are discussing a resolution on the republic of azerbaijan, in which we force a sovereign state to adapt from its roots to our concept of democracy in two to three years. in this context, i cannot and will not agree to any preliminary ruling that would serve that purpose. the sovereign state of azerbaijan has the right to have sufficient time for the judiciary and executive to investigate cases of human rights violations, but without external pressure and political declarations of the european union. non-objective assessments of these cases, not only in azerbaijan, are counterproductive and directly contrary to the spirit of cooperation promoted by the european parliament. my knowledge of azerbaijan is that it is showing more than a considerable degree of commitment and effort to bring its domestic legislation into line with international law. we have an obligation to criticize, but at the same time to respect the historical and cultural context of particular countries and to engage in dialogue with them, and to cooperate not only within the framework of the venice commission. i am deeply convinced that the expert assessment of the compatibility of national laws with the effective defence of human rights is a matter for the venice commission, for example, but not for the political declarations of the european parliament. if we want to help azerbaijan, let's help with reforms, not destruction.
in writing. the current situation in ukraine and the state of eu-russia relations reveal, among other things, the weakness of eu policy, the impotence of the european parliament in dealing with concrete problems, the dangerous uncontrollability of the work of the members of the european commission. the preparation of the association agreement between ukraine and the european union, which took place behind closed doors, is an example. the european union has been blindly drawn into foreign disputes that are damaging to it, whether it be the internal ukrainian conflict or the most dramatic global political games. the loud anti-russian rhetoric everywhere, the undermining of russia's role as the culprit for the current ukrainian crisis and the mutual blame cannot solve anything, but rather contributes to the escalation of mutual relations. the current crisis cannot be resolved by military means. it is necessary to conduct diplomatic negotiations and to seek a way out of the crisis through dialogue, political, constitutional and economic reforms. politicians in the 21st century should be able to resolve even the most dramatic conflicts in society and among themselves through negotiation, not through gunfire, not through anti-government coups. no physical violence. peace was the basis of the first agreements which led to the union. negotiating and observing agreements is a condition of peace. we must take our share of responsibility for peace in europe and speak out for respect for international law and the eu-ukraine-russia agreements. i voted against the joint resolution.
in writing. - i do not consider the joint motion for a resolution to be fully balanced. of course, efforts must be made to bring the conflict, which has resulted in the loss of many lives on both sides, to an end as soon as possible. however, i believe that this is a very difficult path, one that requires careful consideration of the situation in its entirety. i believe that the text of the resolution does not take fully into account all the circumstances of the current reality in israel and the gaza strip. for example, the text does not mention at any point that the end of the peace talks mediated by egypt in august this year was due to the resumption of hamas rocket attacks on israel. i believe that the rocket attacks by militant organisations in the gaza strip against civilians in israel must be strongly condemned. i therefore abstained on this point.
in writing. the european union solidarity fund has already helped the czech republic three times over the last ten years to deal with the damage and consequences of devastating floods. in total, the czech republic received financial assistance of just under eur 156 million. the functioning of this fund helps us to remember the meaning of the common european idea. it is an expression of solidarity between the rich and the less developed regions and an example of helping the disadvantaged in need. the most effective help must also be fast enough. i am therefore pleased that new rules came into force in june, which will greatly speed up, simplify and make the operation of the fund more transparent. i also welcome the possibility of providing an advance of up to eur 30 million for the places most affected by the disaster, and last but not least the emphasis on preventive measures to help prevent devastating disasters.
mr. chairman, we're talking about a disease that we doctors have known for decades, and for which we have no vaccine or specific treatment. but we cannot avoid the fact that the catastrophic social and economic conditions in the countries that are primarily affected, where there are no effective health systems, play a crucial role in the spread of this disease. people live in conditions that do not allow even basic preventive hygiene measures. so in this situation, we should: first, provide not only health but also economic aid to the affected african countries; second, to strengthen, including financially, our research capacity to develop effective vaccines and effective medicines in international cooperation. the epidemic is a challenge a stress test for our health system of early warning and our solidarity. i hope we're not disappointed.
in writing. the year 2014 brought another great challenge for all of humanity, namely the outbreak and spread of the deadly ebola virus. this problem is not limited to west africa, where the virus has broken out and claimed at least 5 000 lives. on the contrary, in today's world, where people are closely linked not just within one country but across several states and continents, it is urgent to act as soon as possible when such events occur. in particular, when it comes to the possible threat to the protection of european citizens. i therefore call for a better coordinated european approach, to be led by the european commission, to respond to this threat. i welcome any necessary legislative steps that are in place. it is time for all eu member states to take the necessary measures. i also stress the need for climate change adaptation mechanisms, which should include the union's capacity to respond to deadly epidemics such as this one. i am convinced that europe and the member states can do more to protect their citizens than they have done so far. the level of risk of infection must be reduced to the lowest possible level. i therefore support the introduction of a european-wide screening of travellers and transfer from all affected areas, the comprehensive strengthening of individual health systems and the adoption of measures addressing the problem at its source, i.e. in africa.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the italian presidency for organizing this conference on employment in milan, because it is essential to work together to find a solution to this serious problem of unemployment. it is essential that we do this together with representatives of national governments, european institutions and the private sector, because common solutions, in my view, require common responses. one of the main causes of youth unemployment, as has already been said, is the failure to match the qualifications of young europeans to the needs of the labour market: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the services provided. this disease - and let me use the term - is preventing our young people from finding work after school, simply because they have not been able to acquire the skills that businesses need. if this mismatch between education and work is not resolved as soon as possible, the europe of tomorrow will not be healthy, competitive and able to return to growth! but we need to take concrete action. i 'll tell you one thing . i am now launching a project in the czech republic which aims to bring together successful entrepreneurs and young people through internships which will allow young people to come into direct contact with successful productive realities. the aim is not to create yet another traineeship project, but to give opportunities to motivated young people and to make them understand what the real needs of the labour market are. it would be nice to propose this programme at european level too, to invest in our future and to give young people the opportunity to find the right motivation.
mr president, i would like to thank in particular my colleague from alde, mr philipp de backer, for a very good report and i would also like to thank my colleagues on the employment committee, where i had the opportunity to contribute to this report as a shadow rapporteur. yes, our priority must be to create the conditions for new jobs. we need more of them, but not at any price. a healthy economy must be the main precondition for job growth. artificially created jobs will disappear as quickly as they were created by a magic trick. in this area, strategic decisions are needed at national level: change starts with an education system that responds to real market needs and ends with a functional link between schools, universities and businesses. this is an urgent task for all member states that manage their resources responsibly and want to motivate young people to work. the european semester report includes a number of important measures and proposals. let us not go down the road of cost reduction but invest in research, education, innovation and new technologies. remove unnecessary administrative burdens for entrepreneurs and small businesses and make it easier for school leavers to enter the workforce. we need to increase competitiveness and restructure the labour market. the european semester is therefore an important tool. i will support the report on the european semester.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all let me both personally and on behalf of the alde group start by thanking the president of the commission for all the efforts that he and his colleagues have put in throughout the years. mr barroso, you have described to us today the track record of your commission – in fact of your two commissions – and, while it primarily focused on the successes with very little on the self-critical side, i would say that in general on many of the issues one would agree with you. so, once again, i offer you my thanks and appreciation. let me also say a few words about what might have been missing during the past two periods. it is not easy to evaluate someone from the outside. one cannot fully comprehend and understand some of the bottlenecks and difficulties you are facing – some of the information that an outsider might not have – but it is equally not easy probably for the commission, and even for the commission president, to comprehend the serious aspects of the issues that daily life brings to our citizens and the difficulties that we sometimes face. in this respect, one thing that i would like to highlight – something that i really missed – is a real lack of leadership. you have mentioned a number of issues where you took the lead and where you were in contact with the member states, but the fact is that the commission did not always use the power of initiative sufficiently in difficult times. sometimes the initiatives were insufficient, weak or too late. i would even say that sometimes i felt that the right of initiative lay with the capitals. sometimes we had the feeling that it was paris and berlin highlighting the issues and tabling them, and the commission was somehow in the shadows. this is one thing that we surely have missed. secondly, you have said rightly that we succeeded in stabilisation. that is absolutely true. you have contributed to stabilisation, but what we have not sufficiently achieved is that we did not come with growth, with structural reforms and with something that takes courage immediately after the stabilisation. we were weak on some of the policies. you mentioned climate-change policy. i could not agree more: that is important. but on industry, on energy, on the administrative burden – on some of these policies we should have done much more. that is where i would have expected the commission to take the lead and for the rest to follow, really. i will finish by saying that we did win the battle on stability, but we did not win the battle on reforms, growth, competitiveness or recovery. sometimes we need less regulation, better regulation, but we need more common policies. this is where i would have expected the commission to take a much stronger lead. having said that, clearly there are policies where you have succeeded. transport is definitely one of them. i think you had a very strict and very good record on competition policy and on some others. but, all in all, these would be the critical remarks that i would have to make on behalf of the alde group. we could have been more advanced and we could have dealt with some of the challenges that we face in a better way.
mr president, commissioner, we are discussing again today the issue of the so-called climate package. the fact that this problem is very complex is shown by the whole process of debate here in parliament, which has been a difficult one in finding a compromise between the commission and parliament. the vote itself a few months ago was far from easy and the result was rather surprising. as a long-standing member of the itre committee and following many interesting discussions in the committee, i would strongly urge caution in adopting so-called ambitious commitments and targets for the future. for any sensible politician, environmental protection is important. we also know that excessive environmental interventions can often have the opposite effect. the excessive regulatory targets of the climate package may threaten the competitiveness of the member states, thus worsening the economic performance of the european union as a whole and, consequently, worsening the environment, which is certainly not in our interest.
i am grateful to the commissioner for the support he has given to our position as members of the european parliament. i think we can agree on that, so i shall not go into the meaning of this measure, which has a relatively small impact on our budget. i'm a future person, and i want to look to the future, and it's very important to me that we really look to the future. mr. zanetti, listen to me carefully, you have a unique opportunity to go down in history books as a member of the council of ministers, to do something about the deficit that the european budget is suffering from. otherwise, if we do nothing about it and do nothing in the next few weeks or months, if we do not come up with a plan, then we will all be considered, not just you, not just the european commission, but also us meps, as untrustworthy.
rapporteur of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. - mr president, i would like to say that the security sector must be considered as perhaps more important than ever, not only in view of the situation in southern and eastern europe. it is necessary to further strengthen internal security, to combat illegal immigration or to link information within the schengen area. that is why we must reject underfinancing in this area and why we are totally against the council's proposal, which has cut the budget considerably and we want to bring it back to the level proposed by the european commission. in addition, some agencies such as europol, frontex or eu-lisa needed to increase their budgets. these are the main programmes of the present commission. we are not proposing anything extra and we are also advocating the digitisation of the european security area.
mr president, despite the fact that some of the commissioners-designate did not give an impressive and convincing performance, and also despite the fact that the transport portfolio has been reshuffled, somehow disrespecting the unanimous view of the committee on transport and tourism – and i would have rather expected a redesign of mr navracsicsʼs portfolio – i have to say that we – i myself, my delegation and the alde group – will vote in favour of mr junckerʼs commission. but, mr juncker, i do expect that your commission will use the right of initiative and that it will be independent – unlike the previous one – from the member states. i also expect that you will have the courage to demand reforms – structural reforms – from the member states, that you will take the initiative, that you will have the courage and that you will provide leadership, which is precisely something that we have missed in the past. now may i refer, very briefly, to mr timmermans? i am very happy that this position has been established and that better regulation is high on your agenda. apart from what you yourself have said, this will provide for growth so that we will need less burdensome regulation in the future and more common policies. so good luck and ʽbon courageʼ.
mr president juncker, we will not support your commission because it simply has a federalist programme which is contrary to our programme. you want a european public prosecutor, you want harmonization of corporate taxes, you want a financial transaction tax, you want redistribution of migrants and other things that we simply cannot accept, and i think it shows what a mistake it was when the governments of the member states let the european parliament steal their right to nominate the president of the european commission and went to the spitzenkandidaten system, because then it always ends up that the european political parties choose someone from their midst, some old structure like you, which is supported by the comfortable majority of the european people and the european socialists, and nothing changes, no reform comes. i have every reason to be pessimistic, i am afraid that your commission will unfortunately be worse than the barros commission, and that is why we cannot support it.
in writing. - this week, commission president-elect mr juncker presented his college of commissioners and their programme to the members of the european parliament. after having assessed each commissioner, parliament decided, by a majority of votes cast, to approve the new commission. my support for this new college is far from unconditional, and our group (alde) has made that very clear from the outset. we need a commission of ambitious reforms and better regulation to help boost competitiveness and economic growth. the first priority should be to get the european economy back on track. i believe that president juncker, first vice-president timmermans and their colleagues will form a strong and independent commission.
in writing. why did i vote against the current composition of the commission? the answer is not simple. it should be said at the outset that my negative opinion does not apply to the individual members of mr juncker's cabinet, as i consider some future commissioners, such as ms jourová, mr šefčovič or mr andriukaitis, to be competent to perform their duties. the way i voted is justified by several factors, in particular the inadequate institutional framework and the absolutely illogical and confusing distribution of powers between the individual commissioners. portfolios were linked, which had no relation to each other or were only marginally related, which affected my area of interest, where fisheries and the environment were inextricably linked. it must be clear that, although at first sight related areas, each one deserves separate attention due to its complexity. but i have an even bigger problem with the number of last-minute changes, such as the transfer of powers between commissioners' portfolios and even between sub-directorates, which mr juncker did not make until the day of the commission vote itself, in fact until 30 days after the ep committees were alerted to 'missing' portfolios such as space or the issue of political refugees. i also cannot agree with the programme presented by the future commission, which continues its dysfunctional policy of budget cuts, social aid cuts and the truncation of the traditional european concept of the welfare state.
in writing. i expressed my support for the candidate for the post of commissioner for justice, consumers and gender equality, věra jourová, immediately after hearing her, on behalf of the parliamentary committee on juri. unfortunately, however, during the hearings of the other candidates, the structure of the commission was changed, and the allocation of portfolios, including the responsibilities of the vice-presidents, was rearranged, which at this stage seems to me to be unclear and even confusing. some core sectors have no commissioner (space portfolio), data protection and the energy union are not defined at all. i voted against the commission for these reasons, and not for reasons of hostility to individual candidates.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the juncker commission. and that's despite the fact that some of its members have opinions that i don't agree with, and i could imagine other divisions of responsibility. there are two main reasons why i support the commission. i believe the candidates for commissioner have gone through a tough but fair hearing. and those who have been endorsed by the ep, despite their differing qualities, can hold the position of commissioner. more importantly, however, in today's balance of power between the eu institutions and the member states, the composition of the commission must be a considerable compromise taking into account the results of the elections. and that's the way it is. i believe that the composition of the commission and the compromises it contains will not be a source of problems but can, on the contrary, be an impetus for finding the best solutions. the commission's support for the ep is not the end of anything, it is the beginning. and i, as a member of parliament, want to do my part to make the commission's difficult task a success.
in writing. i voted for the establishment of the high authority and i am taking this opportunity to explain my vote for the first time. i have had many discussions about my final decision with colleagues from the epp, from my movement and with friends. i see the problem in the composition of the commission mainly in the post of high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to be held by mrs federica mogherini. i am a member of a generation in my country who spent their childhood and early youth in the totalitarian communist regime. my family was always anti-communist, some even spent years in prison. ms. mogherini has her "spaces in the curriculum hidden" from the period when she was significantly inclined towards communism and ties to today's undemocratic russia. under normal circumstances, i would not be able to support such a high official. of course, she may have changed her earlier views, but her experience in foreign policy so far does not convince me that she should protect the whole of eu foreign policy. in the end, i decided to support the commission as a whole. the explanation is simple. of course, the most pleased would be the autocratic forces of russia. i wish mr juncker and his team every success, knowing that he did not choose mrs mogherini and that we meps will be watching and controlling her actions closely. i would therefore be reluctant to undermine an otherwise very competent team, which would be a fundamental mistake, certainly in view of the need to push europe further, and one which could have enormous repercussions for our continent.
in writing. i voted in favour of the jean-claude juncker european commission today because i believe that the current situation in the european union and in the world requires a commission with a clear mandate and a commission that works as a team to find a comprehensive solution to all problems for the benefit of the citizens of the european union. i welcome the fact that the commission has already received support in the october plenary session of the european parliament. of course, like many other members, i had reservations about some of the commissioner candidates. in the end, however, these reservations did not outweigh the need to start this institutional engine of european integration, as the commission is nicknamed, on time. early approval will allow the commission to take up its tasks as from 1 november. the situation in europe is serious and every day of delay in the deployment of new commissioners would be a great loss for all.
mr president, we voted today on the eu budget for 2015 and i would like to comment on the amendments which represent a sensible investment. i voted for these proposals because the eu budget needs to be focused on investing in the future, and among them are the proposals concerning erasmus+, the main instrument for promoting the quality of education, and we have managed to raise this programme to a level that will be able to meet the objectives of the european commission as well as the objectives of agenda 2020. i would also like to mention briefly that i supported the resolution on the single seat of the european parliament. strasbourg is a beautiful city, but the european parliament should also be an example of efficiency, if we are talking about savings and efficiency, then the european parliament should also be an example to the citizens and the member states in its work.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament’s position on the eu budget for 2015. it is very important that the eu has the means available to fulfil all the contracts it has entered into. it would be unacceptable to have a lack of funds available to pay member states for work done under cohesion policy and structural funds. therefore, i support parliament’s increase of the payments level in its reading of the budget. there is one particular point i am keen to emphasise: parliament has voted for an increase of the funds available for humanitarian aid and disaster prevention. we are facing some deeply troubling situations. i am primarily concerned by the malnourishment crisis in south sudan, which could cause the deaths of more than 50 000 children in the next year. it is estimated that over 1 million children under the age of 5 in the country will require treatment for malnutrition in 2014. it is important in this context that european union humanitarian aid programmes have money available to them to make a real difference.
in writing. i did not support another of the ep's moves to resolve the move between brussels and strasbourg. i have two reasons for this. the first is that the seat of the ep is determined by the treaties and the ep has no power to change them. moreover, some countries still do not support this change. so it's not really about trying to change the status quo. if the council gives a positive signal to change this situation, i will give it serious consideration, since the economical and efficient use of resources is very important to me. the second reason is that the european union, like similar projects or states, is based on a series of symbols. there are many of them: the commissioners for each country, the rotation of the presidency and so on. and strasbourg is one of the very important symbols of europe, historically, geographically and culturally. i'm not saying that the old symbols can't be changed, but we should always weigh what change brings and what it takes away. by the way, if someone in my country had suggested that we demolish prague castle, an age-old symbol of our statehood and history, he would certainly have failed and perhaps ended up in the care of a medical facility. and it might be economically viable to replace it with concrete skyscrapers.
in writing. although i support the proposal for the establishment of a single seat for the european parliament, in today's vote on the proposed paragraph 86 (the adopted text is paragraph 87) which calls for a timetable for the establishment of a single seat for the european parliament, i abstained because i believe that this matter should be dealt with in the form of a separate european parliament resolution confirming the position of the european parliament on this particular matter, not in the form of an annex to material relating to the budget of the european union.
in writing. - with this vote on the budget of the european union (eu), the parliament adopted a strong position and expressed support to growth and jobs in the eu. among other reasons, i voted in favour of this proposal to support our smes, but also research, innovation and education. eu needs ambition. i nevertheless disagree with some of the measures proposed. i voted for example against funding for breeding of bulls for bull-fighting. i also voted to put an end to export funds. i believe this is a distortion of the market and that these funds prevent some countries to develop their own production.
in writing. the legislative document, known as the european semester for short, appeared in the envi committee for the first time. as shadow rapporteur, i had serious reservations both about this commission initiative as such and about the opinion in envi. since i strongly disagreed with the direction this document was taking, my amendments focused on reversing it. in particular, to strengthen equal access to healthcare for eu citizens in a period of pan-european budget cuts, to strengthen social cohesion, social justice, tackling social exclusion and intergenerational solidarity, as these are areas that are sorely lacking in the proposed legislation. i also stressed in my position the need to exploit the full potential of the so-called green economy and the need to create green jobs, as i believe that the eu is wasting the potential offered by the emphasis on the green economy. some of my amendments were part of the envi rapporteur's compromises, but in my view they were completely stripped of their substance and the text presented was no longer in keeping with the spirit of the original idea. that's why i couldn't be part of this compromise. the final version of the european semester and the report on it were even worse from my point of view, which is why i decided not to support this document and to vote against it.
mr president, i will not repeat the rather precise description of the situation made by many of you. i will also not repeat the objectives that were set out by many of you and which to a large extent – not always, but to a large extent – i share. i need to point out though, that we are facing the trauma of the inhabitants of kobane, the trauma of the defenders of kobane. we are also facing the trauma of the families of people who were executed in a barbaric way, but we are also facing one more trauma. we are facing a trauma of a lack of a comprehensive eu strategy on syria, on iraq and, of course, a strategy that would also deal with the grave situation in kobane. i thought, mr president, that i would not even ask for speaking time, because i expected to forward a number of questions to the high representative. i find it a disgrace that we have not seen her so far in this new european parliament; i find it disrespectful to us and also to the families and defenders of kobane. i therefore wish to ask the italian president when it is we will see a proposal for a real, comprehensive strategy that shows that the european union has an active common foreign and security policy. this is something that i am missing. we have seen bits and pieces, but nothing comprehensive; nothing that would show activity and the ability to avoid a trauma similar to srebrenica. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – first of all, i am not proposing a strategy, but maybe we will not see the high representative for some time and i might sit down and draft something. but to answer your question, this is an issue which has to be assessed and evaluated with all the risks – advantages, positives and negatives – and this is something that should be debated. i might have a personal view on that. i think that we have reached a certain point where basically we cannot just pretend that nothing is happening on the borders of the european union. but this has to be done in a complex and cautious way – the way that has certainly been described. i am sorry, but this is not a question that can be answered in half a minute.
the question posed by the blue card. mr. mayer, i have a question for you. you said there was conclusive evidence that isis was using poison gas. can you show me some of that evidence or give me a link to where i can find that evidence?
mr. chairman, commissioner, a lot of things have been said here, but perhaps i'd like to clarify one piece of information i got from people working in security yesterday. it's not just 3,000 people fighting for isis anymore, it's 3,000 and a half. these are all eu citizens, and i ask myself: have we neglected prevention? we might win the war in iraq or syria. we may be beating isis, but the problem has been there and it's not going to change. we need to focus on prevention, we need to really bring contemporary islam into the discussion, and we need to have fun discussing what and how to do next. war crimes, ladies and gentlemen, are not the war crimes that we know from world war ii or world war i. these are images of the present day, where people are executed for merely suspected of collaborating with one side or the other. the beheading, the mass shooting, the shooting of christians. even today, these people have more than 5,000 victims on their hands. and with a number of the victims today, we can't even prove what happened to these people. these are crimes that are really very cruel. and i want to end this speech with one word, ladies and gentlemen, it's not just about punishment, it's about prevention. prevention and discussion with people who want to live in europe and want to help us build a strong and prosperous europe. that must be our mission.
in writing. in my view, the delay in the discharge for berec in spring 2014 was justified, as there were clear concerns about poor project implementation, conflicts of interest and transparency, and shortcomings in tendering and recruitment. however, berec has clearly demonstrated its willingness to take our criticisms and transform them into positive outcomes. that allows me to recommend that he be granted a discharge. the pressure on the agency to further improve the criticised areas (financial transfers, low transparency, high conflict of interest) needs to be continued. the council, on the other hand, is the least transparent body, consistently refusing to cooperate with parliament. parliament must make clear its dissatisfaction with the state of cooperation and communication with the institution and must refuse to grant discharge. council representatives do not take part in the cont committee's deliberations and do not answer our questions. this is unacceptable and it completely undermines the legitimacy of this body! we cannot tolerate the non-transparent and unmonitored spending of eu funds. the council consistently makes mistakes in public procurement and parliament has no control over this. each european institution is accountable to and subject to the control of its citizens, and the council is by no means an exception and should not put itself in a superior role! it is therefore obliged to cooperate in a spirit of transparency with the representative of eu citizens, the european parliament.
- the author. madam chairman, the russian human rights society memorial and the ukrainian maidan movement are two sides of the same coin. both carry a strongly anti-communist and anti-soviet character. memorial has been helping to bring down the great soviet empire since the late 1980s. he demanded respect for human rights, and i repeat, without the memorial, the collapse of the soviet union would have come much later. maidan made it clear that the ukrainians did not want to put their heads back in the hands of the new soviet union. both the members of memorial and the participants in the maidan revolution showed courage and principled opposition to a regime that had violated human rights for almost a century. we know very well, ladies and gentlemen, that we who support the maidan have lost our battle for the sakharov prize for the maidan in the european parliament. let me remind you of the words of one of the most prominent russian human rights defenders of the last decade, sergei kovalev: "the protection of human rights cannot be the internal affair of any state". let's support the memorial!
for the group gue/ngl. madam president, it is difficult not to see the problems that are so many in uzbekistan. the main ones include highly opaque elections, the harsh repressive procedure of the government power against the population, which is justified mainly by the need to defend against the danger of terrorism and islamic extremism, the problem of more independent information in the media, child labor, prison conditions. however, some positive moments of recent times should also be highlighted: the adoption of the ban on child labour used in cotton harvesting, certain reforms in the judiciary and prisons, the adoption and effective law prohibiting torture, violence, inhuman and cruel degrading practices in december 2013. i cannot agree with the eu and us approach, which outwardly criticizes president karimov, but there is clear evidence that they maintain very close contacts with him and other politicians. uzbekistan is an example of a selective and non-objective approach. i can't accept a two-foot in politics.
- madam president, i am deeply dismayed by the events in mexico. almost a month has passed and the students, 43 young people from rural families, are still missing. this tragedy should never have happened. the events reveal the fragility of democracy in mexico, despite the actions taken by the government to guarantee the safety of mexicans. we want the students to return safely, and those responsible for their abduction to be brought to justice, regardless of who they are. we welcome the measures taken by president peña nieto and the government to deal with this situation, but more needs to be done. this incident and the wider picture that is emerging of unrestrained links between local authorities and criminal groups are concerning. i hope that soon mexicans will no longer have to endure this nightmare and that they can restore trust and faith in their local officials.
for the group gue/ngl. madam president, we are aware that the situation in mexico is deteriorating and that it is more than necessary for the european parliament to take up this matter. mexico continues to suffer from repeated human rights violations, the country is heavily influenced by drug cartels, more than half of the mexican population lives below the poverty line, and there is no visible effort on the part of the mexican government to take steps to correct the situation. we express our deepest solidarity with the missing students and their families and appeal to all that the situation needs to be addressed. every effort must be made not only to find the missing students and to bring to justice and punish the perpetrators of their disappearance, but also to address the social and human rights issues in this area. we need to ensure that this threat, not just to the young people of the world, but to the young people in general, does not happen in the future. the situation in mexico shows that it is no longer possible to ignore the ever-widening gap between the rich and the poor, the increasing reports of missing people and the sad situation in the mexican justice system.
in writing. - i voted in favour of granting discharge to berec because the agency actively seeked solutions to the problems for which it was critisezed. berec adopted measures addressing some of the key recommendations from the cont committee in a timely manner. at the same time, the agency was very cooperative.
in writing. - i voted against granting discharge to the council and the european council, because this institution does not cooperate with parliament. it is secretive and non-transparent and it does not answer questions from the committee on budgetary control regarding serious shortcomings, including in the area of public procurement. the members of the institution do not attend hearings of the committee on budgetary control. there are also doubts about transparency with regard to the modernisation of the council’s new europa building.
in writing. tax evasion and the fight against tax havens are big issues in europe today. on the one hand, there are cuts and a declining public finances, and on the other hand, there are huge tax evasions by companies where taxes are not paid, and tax dumping between eu countries. the situation was and is unsustainable in the long term. the social democrats have long been drawing attention to the problem of tax evasion, and it was one of the serious issues in the european elections. we therefore want mr juncker to make clear what he will do specifically as president of the european commission against tax evasion and tax havens over the next five years. public scrutiny and political pressure are the only guarantee that tax evasion will finally be addressed and the problem will not be closed. and also that we're going to be dealing with really important things in europe.
in writing. – the luxleaks affair showed us three crucial things. multinational companies can pay 1% in corporate tax whereas smes have to pay even 35% in some eu countries. paying 1% was legal, the big companies have not breached any rule. tax avoidance structures were extremely complex and non-transparent. what lesson did we learn? hard, complicated or national rules will not help to fix the problem. we need simple european rules which discourage tax avoidance. the big and the small must have ‘the same tax costs’ otherwise european smes cannot compete with big multinationals. we need rules which combine transparency and responsibility. we need rules rewarding those who pay their fair share and punish those who engage in tax avoidance.
madam president, i would like to comment on this annual report of the european court of auditors. it is a sad fact that we have to mention here, but it is clear from the annual report that the european commission suffers from the syndrome of financial mismanagement, and we must urgently confront this problem and work to cure this malady in the new period. i see one major problem here, and that is the lack of priorities. the spending of the european budget is primarily about spending all the resources available, and whether it is done in accordance with the rules does not seem to be the focus. it no longer looks at whether or not projects financed by the budget achieve the objectives set or whether they have any added value. high error rates, low levels of effective internal control, lack of integrity and inconsistency are the main symptoms of poor financial management. but member states are also to blame for this state of affairs, they do not provide accurate data and some of them do so through lax approaches and some deliberately contribute to new errors.
mr president, in regard to all that has been said, i would like to ask the commission to embrace the idea of the donor conference for south sudan to fund the needs of humanitarian agencies on the ground. as you know, the last conference on south sudan was held in norway, but i do not think that calling upon the international community to convene the next round of the donor conference is a task for a single country. it is clear that the eu – with its global ambition and global responsibility – should play the leading role here. i am convinced that if the eu institutions work together on this, we can convince the international community to convene the next round of the donor conference on south sudan and to make the difference which is desperately needed.
mr president, the european economic area is an agreement based on four fundamental freedoms: the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital. that's what i like about european cooperation. and i admire that countries that are in the european economic area and not in the eu have these four freedoms without what i would call the baggage, without the bureaucracy, without the subsidy programs, without the common agricultural policy. these countries are not required to apply european customs duties on the importation of goods. they just have four freedoms and no extra bureaucracy. so i wouldn't want to overstate the importance of this contract, but we should take a look at this model. i think if we dissolved the whole eu and everyone stayed in the eea agreement, we would have done the best thing.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the rapporteur has submitted a report, and it is easy for me to say that i can fully subscribe to it and also declare that the alde group will vote ‘yes’. but let me say the following: in one monthʼs time it will be 24 years since my country signed its association agreement. i was privileged to be a part of those negotiations. it is therefore 24 years since we had to take on quite demanding obligations and commitments which somehow formed part of the effort of reforming our own country. this is something that is expected from moldova. moldova will have to do the same. it is 24 years since we had to introduce far-reaching reforms. some of them were tough, some of them not always appreciated by the public, some of them were controversial in the political sphere. moldova will have to do the same, it will have to pursue the path of reform. on 1 january 1993 czechoslovakia separated. it was a peaceful separation but we had to deal with the consequences. moldova, with the help too of the 5+2 format, will have to deal with the transnistria problem and i think that moldova should have our support in this respect. twenty-four years ago – but in fact somewhat earlier, through the words of václav havel – we declared our objective: the objective was to join the european communities. moldova has the right to declare its own objective, whatever it is. meeting the criteria should, of course, once again have our support. we behaved as a self-confident country which refused any intervention in its own sovereign rights. i think that moldova has the same right and again it should have our support. we are going to be voting today on the association agreement. i think that moldova deserves this opportunity and i think that it should have our full support. this is an opportunity. but it also has the right to determine its future destiny and i think that it is very important today to make it absolutely clear, through our voting, that moldova does have our support. i do not think any of us meps would appreciate it if any other party were to intervene in the sovereign rights of our own countries. so let us send out a very clear signal, especially as we know what is happening today in eastern europe.
(microphone switched off)…after the elections, violated many times the valid constitution. so, moldova is a country with a very difficult history, and now we are celebrating the anniversary of the revolt in 1924 when the people revolted against abuses of power in tatarbunary. i have to say that cricova is maybe the biggest reserve of wine in europe, but moldova’s problem is that it was dependent on exports of wines to russia, and i would say the european union is not currently providing a solution to the problem of exports of brandies and wines to russia. we are not importing these commodities to the european union. this national variety is also a problem. the existing proposal for an association agreement with moldova will be a mere copy of the one with ukraine and so it will result in the same problems and consequences. i have to say that i think that the basic problem is to give moldova the possibility to export their commodities to european union markets. if we have this problem of financial disequilibrium in moldova, it cannot be resolved by this association agreement.
mr. president, we are negotiating an association agreement with moldova. it is argued that this move should integrate the country with the european union's single market, strengthen the rule of law and perhaps fight corruption. as i am aware of the situation in moldova, i wonder whether, since the start of the union's involvement in moldova, there has been less corruption, or whether the poorest country in europe has at least made some progress towards change. or, more importantly, has it managed to find another market for the union, when, given moldova's economic strength, or rather weakness, and its tariff-free status, it has little to offer? moreover, i have heard almost no reaction from the union to the provocation of the prime minister and serious candidate for the presidency of the union member state, romania, victor ponta, who declared that 'moldova will soon cease to exist as a sovereign state'. so what game are we playing with moldova and its people? i fear that the association agreement will trigger another conflict on the european continent and will not benefit the moldovan people. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer the question by raising the blue card. mr president, i don't know what the level of corruption in the eu is. i hope that the rate is lower and that moldova has something to learn from yesterday's speeches.
mr president, unfortunately the crisis in ukraine has largely overshadowed developments in moldova. and in the process, this country faces very important elections that will determine not only who will lead the country, but where it will go in the long run. as in the ukrainian elections in october, they will decide whether moldova will continue to move closer to the eu or take the other and worse path. in this light, the adoption of the association agreement is certainly an important and undeniably significant element and a message to the moldovan voters ahead of the upcoming elections that the european choice has meaning. it is also an expression of support for the continuation of the reforms that have been initiated and therefore this ratification should be supported. but we cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that ratification of the agreement is not without problems. one of the biggest is that moldova is a divided country. we don't even know if this agreement will be able to be implemented in the whole country. if there is no agreement between chisinau and tiraspol, ratification can only further destabilise the political situation and that must be avoided. i firmly believe that the ratification of the association agreement will contribute to the victory of the pro-european political party or parties in the forthcoming elections, which will be able to resolve this complex situation.
in writing. – i embrace whole-heartedly the ratification of the eu-moldova association agreement, including the dcfta, by the european parliament. i would like to congratulate moldovan citizens and its government for making the choice to pursue further integration with the european union - like the czech republic 21 years ago. i look forward to working on the practical implementation of the agreement - in particular in the field of economic cooperation and people-to-people contacts. i believe that the eu-moldova dcfta could provide positive solutions for the european and moldovan businesses to mitigate the effects of the russian embargo on the european and moldovan products. i further emphasize the need to cooperate with young people from transnistria to ensure that they can participate in the same educational and professional exchanges with the eu as their moldovan counterparts.
in writing. the eastern partnership project aims to achieve stability and prosperity in the union's neighbourhood and i am pleased that this initiative was implemented during the czech presidency in the first half of 2009. it is necessary to further deepen relations between the european union and moldova as one of the partner countries. that's why i fully support the association agreement.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i consider the association agreement and the agreement on a deep and comprehensive free trade area (aa/dcfta) to be a very important step not only for the eu but also for the country itself. by signing these agreements, moldova has entered a new phase in the development of a democratic state based on the rule of law, where the rights and freedoms of individuals are paramount. moldova, which is burdened by russian trade embargoes, must not become another instrument of russian foreign policy towards the eu.
in writing. i welcome the rapprochement with the republic of moldova, which i supported as chairman of the czech-moldovan friendship group. this rapprochement is already bringing significant benefits to moldovan citizens, including visa-free travel, the highest level of eu support for moldova from the eastern partnership countries. the agreement now under discussion will allow for further deepening of the partnership by eliminating import duties on most products, by an expected increase in national income of eur 150 million, by increasing investments in moldova and their legal protection. i must say a few words about the russian pressure that is also being felt in moldova, from all sorts of trade embargoes to even the creation of a strongly populist party whose future real aims we know nothing about. we want to send a clear message to moldova, to its citizens, before the upcoming moldovan elections. we support you as a full, sovereign, and territorial country. and that is our next message to the russian federation about the free movement of the eastern partnership nations.
in writing. in today's vote, i supported the conclusion of the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova, as i believe that there is now more than ever a need to further support the european direction of moldovan society, which has already demonstrated its ability to successfully reform its public administration, as evidenced by the successful completion of the visa liberalisation process leading to the visa-free regime between the european union and moldova. i hope that moldova will also successfully meet the requirements for accession to the european union.
in writing. the eastern partnership project aims to achieve stability and prosperity in the union's neighbourhood and i am pleased that this initiative was implemented during the czech presidency in the first half of 2009. it is necessary to further deepen relations between the european union and moldova as one of the partner countries. that's why i fully support the association agreement.
mr president, i have to say that i regret today’s ep approval of this particular report. i think it is one-sided, it is unbalanced and it will not contribute positively to solving this very delicate issue. moreover, it might lead to a situation where turkey stops every effort for any bilateral talks. therefore, i have to say that as the chair of the alliance of european conservatives and reformists (ecr) of which the main turkish political party, the ak party, is also a member, i did not support this report and i had to vote against it.
in writing. at today's plenary session, i supported the resolution responding to turkey's current activities in the exclusive economic zone of the republic of cyprus, as i believe that the situation requires an adequate response. i believe that if we are responding to the occupation of a non-eu country, we must also respond to the situation associated with the occupation of a european union country, especially in the year of the 40th anniversary of that occupation. turkey must act in accordance with international law and not challenge the existence of an exclusive economic zone of the republic of cyprus.
in writing. economic and political conflict, driven in particular by the struggle for control of raw materials, undermines the efforts of the outside world to provide much-needed support and direct aid, mainly to the most vulnerable in the country's needy areas. the documented cases of various forms of violence, poor health care, poor hygiene, neglected education and other problems cannot be ignored. i fully support the efforts to resolve this crisis situation, the humanitarian disaster in south sudan, as quickly and effectively as possible, and to put an end to all acts of lawlessness and violence. the establishment of an effective aid system that will lead to peace and stability in the region and to an improvement in the living conditions of this country is the only possible direction i can support. that is why i voted for the joint resolution in today's vote.
mr president, i would like to support that proposal. the text of the draft motion obviously still needs to be debated. there is a long way to go before reaching a conclusion, but i would hereby like to support it on behalf of the alde group.
mr. chairman, i'm sure i'll meet the deadline. commissioner, i would like to ask, in view of the undeniable importance of cohesion policy for economic growth, whether the opening of the mff may also pose a risk for cohesion policy beneficiaries, since member states may also wish to open up the question of the amount of their commitments for the 2014-2020 budget period. could there also be a situation where debts remaining from the 2007-2013 period are paid from the budget of this new 2014-2020 period? is it really true that the european commission is delaying the approval of operational programmes because it has no money to pay its old commitments? i'd like to ask you these questions.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, over the past three years we expected more from ‘better regulation’. we wanted a reduced administrative burden, but we kept increasing it. we wanted simpler legislation, but it has become less simple. we are not consistent, and basically we are placing more of a burden on our businesses and our citizens than we should do, without reaching or aiming for better objectives. for me, better regulation is a top priority. i have dealt with the subject in the past, both from an administrative perspective and in speaking to – and working a lot with – businesses. if you talk to them today, most of them will identify this as the number one or number two issue. i very much agree with the commission vice-president here: if we could reduce the administrative burden by 10-15%, we would, in fact, have gdp growth roughly 1% higher than we have today. so it is a significant issue with significant implications for growth and for employment. now this is not an issue just for the commission. the commission has made progress, but it can make more. the council – i will be blunter than the vice-president was – has done zero. parliament has made progress, but we need more progress. i would go so far as to say that this is an issue for an interinstitutional agreement, perhaps to be looked at in the future. i would like to see impact assessment as a key issue and as a key building block in better regulation. i would like to see independently-carried-out impact assessments, professionally done. i would like experts and professionals on board. i would like to see the highest possible degree of independence, and i would like the vice-president to supervise all these activities. i would even like to see financial targets. perhaps that is very ambitious, but we know that it has worked elsewhere in the world, notably in the usa, and in some member states. having spoken to the vice-president, my questions are similar to those asked by mr pieper, so i will not repeat them. i would just say, mr timmermans, that your ambitions are encouraging, and we will be there to work with you. we will definitely support you, but we really want to see a tangible result, which is something we have not seen in the past 10 years.
commissioner, i would also point out that regulatory impact assessment is an area of great interest to me as a lawyer, and i think that millions of european citizens rightly call for quality european legislation. i was surprised that when the commission proposes an amendment to existing legislation in force, the proposal is not accompanied by a translation of the text being amended, and that comparison of the existing text with the newly proposed text is not mentioned. in my view, this should also be changed for the sake of clarity of the legal order. i would also like to see a specific assessment of the impact of the implementation of the principle of subsidiarity, particularly after the adoption of the treaty of lisbon and in the light of the activities and opinions of the national parliaments.
let me comment on the functioning of the internal market. on 8 august, the european commission published a letter addressed to several international car rental companies. it called for an end to discriminatory practices against european consumers who cannot rent a car online at the lowest available price, depending on their nationality or place of residence. on 28 october, the commission informed the representatives of the car rental companies that an agreement had been reached, but that they would still be able to charge different prices, justified by objective criteria. i consider that differentiating the price displayed on a website according to the language version or the place of residence of the consumer is always a discriminatory pricing practice. the objective criteria to which the commission refers are not justified in this case and, in my view, there is a breach of the services directive. i therefore call on the european commission and commissioner bieńkowska to look into these practices.
in writing. – the message of the european parliament to the member states is clear in this resolution. in order to reach 75% employment targets of the eu 2020 strategy and to fight youth unemployment, we need to focus on structural reforms aiming to eliminate unnecessary administrative burden and bureaucracy for the self-employed, micro-enterprises and smes as well as facilitate the conditions for start-up businesses. it is also important to shift the tax burden away from labour to allow job creation and to improve entrepreneurial skills among young people to encourage them to make a difference to their lives.
in writing. both documents to which the eu is to accede, as requested by the council, contain some positive elements, such as the effort to protect creditors against debtors who do not meet their obligations by establishing an international system that allows creditors to register claims to rights in rem in different categories of mobile device objects and to benefit from the enforceability rules for such registered claims. the railway protocol establishes a register of international claims applicable to railway vehicles. it allows you to register and search 24 hours a day using the internet. however, behind these noble proposals is the commission's desire to encourage capital investment in the railway sector and to create a genuine market for mobile rail equipment leasing in europe, in other words the liberalisation and privatisation of the rail transport sector, as evidenced by the fact that the documents refer to the fourth railway package. i know from my own experience that privatisation in this sector does not bring the expected improvements but, on the contrary, leads to non-transparent tendering procedures, disruption of services, neglect of maintenance and repair of vehicles on whose technical condition the safety of passengers depends, dismissal of employees and a general decline in the services provided. as i am not in favour of such a development, i voted against it today.
in writing. – i support the request from the parliament for a legal opinion from the court of justice on the passenger name record agreement between the eu and canada. it is critical that we strike the correct balance between ensuring security and personal liberty, within the legal framework. we need to be sure that the agreement does not go too far at the expense of personal freedom and data protection.
in writing. the draft agreement between the european union and canada raises a number of legal issues. although both the european council and the commission are urging the european parliament to give its swift approval to the agreement, i consider the european parliament to be the safety net in protecting the rights of eu citizens. the right to the protection of personal data and to the prevention of their misuse is undoubtedly one of the fundamental rights. although security and counter-terrorism protection are among the fundamental tasks of any state, this must not be at the expense of automatically restricting the rights of citizens. if we restrict these rights, we must have not only good reasons but also a legal basis so that in the future there will be no doubt about the correctness of such actions. i therefore consider the opinion of the european court of justice on the draft agreement to be a necessary basis for any further political decisions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of a request from the parliament for a legal opinion from the court of justice on the passenger name record agreement between the eu and canada. pnr data contains a large amount of private information and we need more clarity on the legal safeguards to ensure proper legal protection for eu citizens.
in writing. the impact analysis of the un millennium declaration has shown significant improvements in the living conditions of people in developing countries, but it has also shown the need to update it and adapt it to the new challenges and opportunities offered by today's world. i see the success of the mdgs so far as a commitment to further deepen and better target our efforts. the european parliament resolution clearly defines the core and elaborates on the sub-areas that need to be addressed in addressing the challenge of global inclusive and sustainable growth. i am convinced of the need to produce a strong, binding document that represents a strong and unified eu position, based on the communication 'a life in dignity for all'.
in writing. the increase in unemployment, especially among people from vulnerable social groups, and the increase in the number of people who are at or below the poverty line is alarming. it is clear that the social impact of economic measures has not been sufficiently reflected, gdp is not an all-powerful indicator and the europe 2020 objectives in the area of social and employment have moved away from convergence. the european parliament resolution offers a comprehensive overview of the proposed measures that can lead to a correction of the situation. as a member of the itre committee, i particularly support the points concerning the promotion of reindustrialisation and the linking of the worlds of education and work. only strong social priorities can lead to strong social policies, and in this respect better work is needed both with the european social fund and with other cohesion policy funds.
i would like to say that i very much welcome the commissioner's statement on how she intends to tackle the problem and what she intends to propose as a solution. we all see that the problem is in the council, not in the commission. the repayment of debts is a question of the credibility of the european union as a whole. how can the union be credible if it causes problems for businesses, citizens, but also, of course, for specific municipalities, local governments? shouldn't the budget process be changed so we don't get into this situation again in a few months? how can projects be approved by the council and payments not approved? i can't understand that. could there be a catastrophic scenario that the problems could be carried over to the new 2014-2020 budget period?
i am personally very disappointed with the outcome of the conciliation committee. not only were the member states unable to agree on a common position for a long time, but the council's position was not worth negotiating afterwards. like every eu citizen, every household, every european company, the eu itself must pay its unpaid bills. and as soon as possible. it's too late for that. the current state of the european budget casts a negative image on the eu as a whole and on european integration as such. so let's solve it then.
in writing. dear colleagues, november 25th is the international day for the elimination of violence against women. i find it alarming that even today, in the 21st century, one third of european women have experienced some form of sexual violence by the time they are 15 years old. i therefore call for stronger action to be taken across europe to prevent violence against women, whether it is psychological or physical abuse. in this context, it is important to note that this year's sakharov prize was awarded to denis mukwege, a congolese doctor who has devoted his career to helping victims of sexual crimes. i therefore join the call for the european union and its member states that have not yet done so to sign and ratify the istanbul treaty. it is the first legally binding international instrument that creates a legal framework to protect women against all forms of violence and to prosecute perpetrators. there is also a need to raise general awareness of this issue and it would therefore be desirable to designate 2016 as the european year against violence against women.
mr president, i would just like to express my opinion on the other side of the question. it is the belief that legislation can now lead to a reduction in workplace risks. i believe that the current situation has already led to some over-regulation in this area. i feel sorry for every victim, every traffic accident, but too much and unclear legislation can also make us an uncompetitive economy, a european economy. it also increases costs. that is what my colleague mr mann has said. i think we need new legislation on worker protection, but really one that's transparent. i therefore like the conservative approach that the commissioner has presented, and i thank her very much for it.
the czech republic is currently subject to infringement proceedings. it concerns the fact that a certain proportion of roma children are enrolled in so-called special schools, in which pupils with lower academic performance are accumulated. i would like to point out that the problem is much, much deeper. we had special schools before 1989. yet before 1989 there was no roma unemployment, no roma ghetto, no threat to roma from fascist right-wing militants, and no roma children working as drug dealers from the age of 12. simply putting roma children in a different type of school does not solve the problem. much of the work formerly done by roma is now done by illegal immigrants. the property speculators took the roma apartments. in these circumstances, the fact that roma children attend special schools is not a cause but a consequence of the circumstances.
mr president, first of all let me take this opportunity to congratulate the previous parliament and the council for guiding the process of the creation of banking union to the end. i think this is a fantastic success for europe, and it is good for all of us. i also want to wish the ecb all the best. the process for us is almost, but not quite, at an end, because there are still some leftovers which we should work on, and we should also focus to make sure that the legislation works as intended. we are talking about what should be done: for example, i believe we should focus on the issue of emergency liquidity assistance in the environment of the banking union. as regards the report, i think this was a good proposal and the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) has done very good work, so let me first comment on the sanctions. to find a trade-off between transparency, efficiency and firmness is very difficult in the financial sector, because too early disclosure of the fines can be a very costly error. that is why i support the compromise reached by econ. as regards statistics, as a former central banker, i have to say that statistical requirements imposed by the central banks are excessive. i would kindly ask the ecb and the council to consider using the banking union to reduce the burden of statistics on the financial sector.
indeed, the lima conference should pave the way for a global climate agreement in paris in 2015 with the aim of keeping global warming below 2°c. but when we make a global agreement, we should not just focus slavishly on reducing concrete numbers in reducing co2 emissions, but we should pay attention to investing in future technologies that will reduce emissions while being affordable. we cannot allow the fight against climate change to turn into a fight for jobs in a collapsing industry. developing climate-friendly technologies is also important from the perspective of the developing world. the developed world needs to help the third world with technology transfer in their efforts to reduce co2 emissions. i want to appeal to our common sense. the ideologically blinded view in the climate change debate often overshadows the most economically viable pathways to real co2 reductions.
one of the european union's most significant achievements to date has been to significantly reduce the carbon intensity of the european economy. i therefore welcome the commitments of the member states adopted by the council in october to reduce their emissions by 40% by 2030. but we must be equally ambitious on a global scale. our main objective must be to keep the global average temperature within 2°c. so we need to reach an agreement in paris that will ensure that we deliver. we can't do that without working with the united states, china and other big greenhouse gas producers. that is why i welcome the recent statements by the leaders of both countries on the fight against climate change. there's no way that china's emissions are going to increase for another 15 years. we need to fight not just climate change itself, but also the demagoguery and propaganda of those who oppose it. our struggle cannot be seen through the prism of forced costs. together, we are investing in a new economy, a system that creates new jobs and promotes sustainable development.
in writing. climate change is a reality of the world today. after 20 years and 20 climate conferences, we're now at the stage where we're going to decide what happens to our planet. the ipcc fifth assessment report is quite clear on this: our planet could warm by up to 4.8°c by 2100. for those who don't see this as a problem, i highly recommend reading the world bank report "lowing the temperature: why we can't allow a world 4 degrees warmer". we simply cannot allow such warming. the international community is aware of this, of course, and has long agreed that global temperatures must not rise more than 2°c to avoid the potential worst impacts on the biosphere, the availability and supply of food and water, health, nutrition and economic development worldwide. and there's no wonder why. an october 2014 pentagon study states that climate change is a current national security threat with increased risk of terrorism, food supply disruptions, and an increase in infectious diseases among the population. if the lima conference does not create the necessary conditions for the successful adoption of a binding global climate agreement in paris in 2015, the above-mentioned catastrophic scenarios will become our future.
i would like to say that i was pleased to support the draft legislative resolution on the council regulation on the collection of statistical information by the ecb. however it may seem that this regulation brings additional bureaucracy and administration, it is not so. the new rules on the use of confidential statistical information minimise the reporting burden and aim to ensure that the same data are only collected once. on monday we discussed the commission's guidance on impact assessments of legislation. i think that this regulation is the right way to reduce bureaucracy and red tape, and i would therefore like to expressly mention it and say that i was happy to support it.
in writing. the euro crisis has demonstrated the need for far more rigorous regulation of eu financial markets, with a logical link not only to strengthening the ecb's powers but also to improving the coordination of its actions with euro area member states. the ecb's ability to enforce compliance with the rules and, where necessary, to impose sanctions must be an integral part of its oversight of the financial system as a whole. i fully agree that the single supervisory mechanism (ssm) instrument should play a crucial role in the process of restoring confidence in financial markets in the eu. however, trust in financial markets can only exist under conditions of maximum transparency on all sides. i consider the european parliament's support for the rapporteur's amendment concerning the possible delay in the publication of ecb sanctions and their discussion behind closed doors to be an unfortunate decision which is in direct conflict with the principle of transparency and thus with the primary objective of restoring confidence in the regulation of financial markets.
mr president, i appreciate that the vice-president came early. we were not used to that from her predecessor, and i hope she will keep it up. vice-president, you have been informed that we were unable to have a debate today with the draft resolution. in fact, although you were asking for input into your considerations, i am afraid you are seeing the reality, which is that this house is split. i do appreciate what you said, which is that, while you do not have sufficient competences in this respect, you do see this as your business. i also appreciate that you said there should be an attempt at a common approach in this respect. i think that, as with any other area in the european union, whenever there is a deadlock – deadlock in the council, deadlock in the parliament – the commission, and in this case the vice-president and the high representative, has a unique opportunity to provide leadership. that is what we would be looking for. you spoke of a draft – or input to a – common approach. we would very much welcome it if you came in the very near future with somewhat more detailed elements of this possible common approach. we would definitely be happy to debate it, and i am sure that this common approach can be based on what you have said. there will be no peace without a palestinian state; there will be no palestinian state without security for israel. i had more points to make today, but you have taken them out of my mouth, which is positive. please take this as a warm invitation to come forward with a draft, which i am sure might also facilitate the debate in the european parliament. i hope that in december we will manage to come with a draft resolution and that colleagues from other groups will consider the draft on the table.
the question posed by the blue card. i just have a simple question. what makes you so confident that the recognition of palestine will lead to a lasting peace?
the question posed by the blue card. i would like to ask, when mr le hyaric spoke of contributing to peace by recognising the palestinian state, whether he is convinced that such an act of recognition would lead to a halt in the firing of rockets from civilian objects from palestinian territory at israel, that it would lead to a halt in the construction of terrorist tunnels towards israel, etc.?
firstly, i must say that we are not debating this subject at all in the european parliament. the european parliament, unfortunately, and i say this with regret, is again intruding into matters which, frankly, are none of its business. in a delicate subject such as this, each state should have the right to set its own line, to act in accordance with its own national interests, and the european parliament should not determine or recommend any solution in this respect. he's overstepping his authority and only complicating the situation. secondly, on the subject itself, it must be stated that a part of the palestinian representation is proceeding along the path of violence and terrorism, that it does not hide the fact that it wants to destroy the state of israel, and that is simply unacceptable. i want to hear that the european union will not support these people, that it will not provide them with any funds and that it will not take any steps to create false hopes in them. i think that is more important and that is what should be the content of this debate.
the question posed by the blue card. i would like to ask my colleague if she recognizes the existence of the state of israel? who gives her the right to call it aggression when israel defends itself against terrorist attacks?
i personally don't share the views that ostracize israel and elevate palestine, we have to look at the problem in its entirety. i would like to strongly warn against taking any unilateral action without consulting israel. i wouldn't want this move to disrupt what i would call the very fragile current ceasefire between the israelis and the palestinians. i don't want people to die. i want peace in the holy land. there really must be two sides to this peace. i therefore agree with the view that the european union should not be the one to say that it should recognise one or the other state, because then there would be a situation where a referendum would take place in spain and states from outside would come to recognise a state which we do not want to recognise.
on 20 november, it was exactly 25 years since the convention on the rights of the child was adopted, setting the standard for protecting children's rights. it is more than important that we do everything we can to ensure that member states also quickly fill the gaps in the implementation and prioritisation of children's rights in legislation and, above all, in practice, because it is still mercilessly showing us that there is something to work on and something to correct. as a clear example, i can cite the case of the overburdened social protection system for children in norway, where two boys who are citizens of the czech republic and live with their mother in norway were taken away from their mother on the basis of an anonymous tip-off, and even though these allegations turned out to be false, these boys were still not returned to their mother and were stuck in the norwegian system. there are many such cases. as members of the european parliament, we should also call for the establishment of a position of ombudsman for children's rights in all member states, in order to ensure children's rights even more effectively. children don't have that choice as adults, but they're only dependent on the legal protections we provide. the resolution is strong and bold, and it's up to us to make it happen.
in the 25 years since the convention, much has been done, but still, as already mentioned, a large number of children in the world live in very bad conditions. dr. mukwege, mentioned earlier, described only a fraction of the cases of very cruel violence against children this morning. besides, in south sudan, there are tens of thousands of children who are malnourished, and many of them are dying. this country, plagued by armed conflict, has not even ratified the convention on the rights of the child. i am not in favour of the european union as a whole acceding to international conventions, but in the case of the convention on the rights of the child i would be very much in favour of the union acceding. i therefore welcome the commitment of the high representative, the vice-president of the commission, to work on this.
i am very pleased that we are discussing the convention on the rights of the child after pope francis' speech yesterday. he reminded us that europe is ageing, it is becoming less fertile, because man and human dignity are no longer the centre of our attention. the convention emphasizes the right of the child to a life in dignity, to his or her development and to the care of both parents. trends show that although most people still think that a full-fledged family with both parents is the best model for raising children, more and more children are being born out of wedlock. in some developed countries, the figure is as high as 40 percent. the convention clearly puts the best interests of the child first. she has no intention of interfering with the parents' rights. rather, it emphasizes that the family provides the best environment for children to develop, and that every child has the right to be cared for by both parents. this principle should also guide decisions on alternative family care, but does not. in this context, i call on the norwegian authorities to stop restricting the rights of the two michalak brothers who were taken from their family despite having a mother and extended family capable of taking care of them. unfortunately, this is a sad experience and i want to thank the citizens of the czech republic, the members of parliament and this parliament for supporting the pressure on the authorities in norway to stop restricting the rights of children to their care in the family. that is why i also support the motion for a resolution which has been tabled here, even though it is not perfect, and i will certainly support the amendments which have been mentioned here. the resolution points out that children's rights are still not respected even in the developed countries of the european union. i believe that our work here will be in the interest of children and their rights.
for the efdd group. mr. ferreira didn't finish, i'll follow up. does it not seem hypocritical to say that profits should be taxed where they are made, while at the same time the european commission is headed by mr juncker, who was the prime minister of a country which is and was a tax haven and which offered favourable tax rates to those who come to tax in his country? you talk about trade, i agree that free trade can promote growth, but don't you think it's hypocritical that on the one hand you're negotiating a trade agreement with the united states that includes an arbitration clause, and on the other hand your mps are proposing to split google tomorrow? i think if they propose it tomorrow, and if ttip is going to be a reality, it will be the first time that an arbitration will be held where a european taxpayer has to pay money to an american company. you talk about investments, how investments are important to the economy. i agree, but what you're offering is hypocrisy again. president juncker presented the idea, the plan, that the european commission would take €8 billion from the european union budget, that the european investment bank would add another €5 billion, and that somehow, somehow, that would create €315 billion in investments. doesn't that seem hypocritical to you? you keep talking about growth, jobs, but we are in an area of the european union where there is no growth, where there are no jobs. you came up with the lisbon strategy to be the most competitive economy in the world by 2010, and we became an economy that doesn't grow at all. please, stop being so hypocritical.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the alde group fully supports the better regulation of the digital single market but, unlike others, we understand the importance of the independence of the commissioner for competition as well. while other groups might want to use this plenary debate as a platform for solely attacking one company, the alde group would like to actually address the topic of this debate: the digital single market. next year, as announced by its president mr juncker, the commission should propose a digital single market package. parliament should be part of shaping this package. the real priority is how we can act to urgently break down national restrictions and existing barriers to growth and jobs. my group has a global vision on how to reform the digital business world and make sure it serves all europeans, no matter where they live in europe. we have a global vision where every citizen, even those living in the remotest areas, has access to high-speed broadband. we have a vision where net neutrality is european law. we have a vision that includes finally doing away with roaming once and for all. we have set this out – and more – in our resolution. mr commissioner, i look forward to seeing our vision and the package in the next year. madam president, the digital single market and the internet are far greater than one company. all large technology companies, including google, must create a level playing field in internet commerce, services and search. they should not use their dominant position against competition and consumers. if they will not do so voluntarily, of course the commission should be able to use all the powers in its mandate to compel action. but let me stress once again that parliament and our member states should respect the independence of the european commissioner for competition. commissioner vestager must be free to take whatever action she thinks best to protect european citizens and consumers in the digital single market. she should not take actions based on political pressure from brussels or beyond, even from me or anybody else in this house.
i very much welcome the fact that the new commission has included the creation of a digital single market among its top ten political priorities for the next five years. there is more than a need to adapt the rules of the internal market to the new, digital age. the benefits in terms of faster growth of the european economy and the creation of new jobs are certainly well known. the internet is one of the driving forces of economic development today. it is therefore very worrying that europe is lagging behind its main competitors such as japan, the united states or south korea, for example in the area of high-speed networks or the media services market. successful internet companies are not founded in europe, but in the united states. whether it's facebook or google or the chinese server alibaba. i believe that the resolution before us will help to speed up the implementation of the necessary changes. however, we must not forget that the digital single market is not just about opportunities. i would like to draw attention to two threats that are linked. one of them is the lack of consumer protection and also the lack of protection of personal data. it's frightening how the mere use of technologies like smartphones exposes us to the threat of user data being misused, for example, for the marketing interests of large multinational corporations. these issues need to be given a very high level of attention if the digital single market is to truly serve not only businesses but also consumers.
i would like to point out what causes malnutrition in children in developing countries. there were many causes mentioned. one of the undeniable attacks on children is, of course, war conflicts, criminal gangs. in europe today, too, we find areas of malnutrition. i have to mention eastern ukraine, where children are suffering in a way unseen in civilized europe. i am therefore proud of what the european union has achieved in its almost seven decades of existence. peace among its member countries, cooperation. of course, i support the measures proposed by the rapporteur, but i wanted to point out that if there were genuine peace and cooperation among the nations of the world, this problem would be immeasurably less. our union should also act by example, as the holy father and yesterday's sakharov prize winner, mr mukwege, pointed out.
author. – mr president, not one year has passed since this house adopted a resolution on this topic, and we are once again faced with various horrific incidents resulting from these laws. this is a tragedy. how can pakistanis have faith in the rule of law when claims that are near impossible to prove can mean life imprisonment or the death penalty? how can those acquitted on blasphemy charges return to an environment that breeds hostility? how can religious minorities feel safe in their homes, having seen a couple beaten and burnt alive? even lawyers who are courageous enough to defend those charged are at risk of mob violence and murder. this is the situation we are dealing with repeatedly, and we have seen no improvement. it is time for pakistan to embrace the human rights obligations and the constitutional duty it owes its citizens to protect them, whether they are christian, muslim, hindu or atheist.
for the ppe group. our resolutions to protect religious freedom have at times produced tangible positive results. in july, we passed a resolution on sudanese christian meriam ibrahim, who was sentenced to death. this woman was released a week after our resolution was passed. today we are defending pakistani asi bibi, also sentenced to death, and other victims of pakistan's blasphemy law. i call on the highest representatives of the european union to ask the president of pakistan to grant a pardon to asia bibi, as this is the fastest legal path to her release. if asia bibi and the other victims are not released, i call on the european union to review the development aid and trade preferences that the european union provides to pakistan. this is because respect for fundamental rights is one of the conditions under which the european union grants development aid and trade preferences. in the sudanese case, that threat worked. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. the statistics show that the muslims are the most affected by the blasphemy law, and they are the ones we are fighting for in this house.
in writing. we're going to vote on a resolution that i support. i would like to draw attention to a well-known fact, but one we do not like to discuss publicly: the beginning of the mass suffering of women and children in iraq today is the illegal military intervention of some western states more than ten years ago, in which some european union states also participated in various ways. i don't want to defend dictators in any way. i just want to ask the question whether this intervention has brought more suffering to the iraqi people than the overthrown regime. i don't want to moralize or compare the number of dead, displaced or tortured before and after the intervention. i would just like to recall the enthusiasm of some politicians, including those in the union, at the time of that intervention. the fiction and enthusiasm that accompanies many of the activities of some of our countries today, for example in ukraine. activities promoting violence and destroying the future of women and children in other regions of the world. it is right to condemn the so-called islamic state for its brutality, religious intolerance and terrorism. but it is also necessary to remember who drew the current borders in the middle east and "forgot" the great kurdish nation. who has armed, trained and encouraged various shia and sunni militias in iraq and in the fight against the government in syria? who keeps making the same mistakes over and over again.
in writing. i support the european parliament resolution on iraq because i condemn the brutal acts of the islamic state against all persons, and in particular women and children of other religious beliefs or ethnic or national origin. the actions of the islamic state have caused a humanitarian crisis and displaced large numbers of people in the affected region. in particular, vulnerable women and children are the most vulnerable group and their abuse, re-education, indoctrination and sale into slavery is completely unacceptable.
mr president, i have an oral amendment of a minor nature to make, on behalf of the alde group and supported by four political groups. while appreciating the work by my colleagues and also the initiative taken by mr pieper, i would like to draw your attention to paragraph 11, where today, as it stands, we would express to parliament that the proposal should not be adopted by the commission unless accompanied by a positive opinion. i do not think that we can impose on the commission a statement which would in fact give the independent impact assessment board the possibility to assess what is positive and what is negative. so my proposal would be to leave the text as it is, namely ‘reiterates the view’, and then we would continue ‘that proposals should not be adopted by the commission unless accompanied by an opinion cleared by the impact assessment board’.
i don't blame mr juncker for being president of a country that is a tax haven. i wish i lived in a country that was a tax haven. i think his own taxpayers, his own citizens, should blame him for giving tax breaks to select companies, while many smaller companies don't. that's what i blame our government for. in my country, it's even the minister of finance who gets these tax benefits for his companies, not paying taxes, while hundreds or thousands of smaller companies pay taxes. what i blame mr juncker for is the hypocrisy of giving such tax advantages in luxembourg and now being the president of the european commission, who blames others for giving such advantages. when i voted for confidence in this commission, the question for me was whether it had won my confidence from the beginning, when its commission was set up. i voted against this commission and my confidence ... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. on 12 november 2014, president juncker of the european commission addressed the plenary session of the european parliament in brussels to provide clarification in the context of the 'luxleaks' case concerning the possible tax evasion of several hundred companies. the alde political group, of which i am a member, responded to the case and to juncker's speech by calling for a thorough investigation of the whole case by the end of this year. she also proposed the creation of a special ep committee to follow up and investigate the case. this week parliament voted on a motion of censure against the commission. i didn't support the motion because it lacks logic. the investigation is still ongoing and the results are not known. and if the commission were to be dismissed, it would not help the investigation or anything else.
in writing. - i voted against the commission's motion of censure. but it is not because i think all the members of the commission are bad. however, from the very beginning, the president has improperly structured the commission by combining unrelated portfolios, and has confusingly moved individual commissioners between different portfolios, creating four vice-presidents who are now senior to the other commissioners, which completely defeats the purpose of the commission's functioning. all this has not been a vote of confidence in mr juncker. and then the scandal that's been uncovered in the last few weeks. it turns out that one of the commission's priorities, supported by our club, to limit the escape of corporate income to tax havens, is in the hands of a man who was prime minister of luxembourg at a time when luxembourg was a tax haven with minimal taxation for some multinational companies. luxembourg was thus de facto stealing from the budgets of the other eu member states. the government under mr juncker has thus acted directly against the eu's interests. the president of the commission cannot be trusted to not once again put the interests of multinational corporations first. the socialists and the people's party, which support mr juncker and have thus taken responsibility for his possible future scandals, should also be aware of this. mr juncker says that he cannot assume political responsibility because he is no longer prime minister of luxembourg, but he can certainly assume responsibility by resigning as president of the commission, because there is only one political responsibility.
in writing. mr juncker was the prime minister of one of the tax havens, and therefore he cannot be the one to fight against tax havens, as he wrote in the european commission's programme. at the same time, he cannot exploit this personal problem to try to promote tax harmonization and unification within the european union. neither his colleagues nor those who support him can suggest that criticism of mr juncker is something that weakens the european union and is a credit to moscow. on the contrary, it is mr juncker who is weakening the european union, by being untrustworthy, by holding on to his position and by not taking responsibility. it is therefore entirely appropriate to try to express distrust.
i voted in favour because we must ensure that the maximum number of operational programmes is approved and that their implementation is accelerated. in view of the delay already experienced by the european commission, i believe that it is necessary to allow for additional calls in 2015. anyway, mr. chairman, i want to give you a big round of applause for the way you're running this meeting.
i too voted in favour of this proposal, considering that the importance of cohesion policy is unquestionable for the economic growth of the european union. i therefore decided to support this proposal and also to say that it goes hand in hand with the way in which president juncker is promoting economic growth and the package he has presented. i consider the cooperation of the vice-president of the committee on budgetary control and the commissioner for regional development to be particularly important. my predecessor, mr zdechovsky, has already pointed out the delay in implementing cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020. i am concerned that, for example, the opening of the multiannual financial framework might also pose a risk to beneficiaries of this policy, since member states may wish to open up the question of the amount of their commitments in the new period. i'd like to avoid that.
in writing. i supported the joint resolution on the problem of delaying the start of the implementation of cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020, which calls on the commission to examine all options that would lead to accelerating the preparation of the mobilisation of funds under the new multiannual financial framework. i consider cohesion policy to be one of the european union's most important common instruments, which expresses its solidarity with the less developed regions. the principle of cohesion must also be an integral part of the investment package being prepared by the new commission. this package must not, as a consequence, lead to a potential outflow of funds from projects which cannot be submitted and committed in time due to delays in the start of the implementation of cohesion policy.
in writing. – i am glad that the parliament voted in favour of the resolution on the revision of the commission’s impact assessment guidelines. this is one of a number of aspects which should be addressed in the push for better regulation on a european level. businesses should be encouraged to flourish through a sound regulatory framework, and should not be overburdened with cumbersome regulations. the alde group in the european parliament will be pushing strongly for further measures to create a more business-friendly environment in the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the revision of the commission’s impact assessment guidelines and the role of the sme test. indeed, i took an active part on the drafting of the text and supported proposal to additionally include on the agenda. the adoption of this resolution is i hope a statement of intent from this new parliament. better regulation can strongly contribute to improving european competitiveness, growth and creation of jobs. reducing eu red tape is also key to ensure a business environment that small and medium sized companies can grow in.
in writing. on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the convention on the rights of the child, i supported parliament's motion for a resolution on this subject. i am glad to say that the convention has been ratified by almost every country in the world. on 26 november 2014, i addressed the ep plenary session in strasbourg to highlight the very worrying situation in south sudan, where malnutrition is endangering the lives of tens of thousands of children. south sudan, torn by armed conflict, is one of the few countries that has not ratified the convention. i also appreciated the commitment of the vp/hr in the plenary to take steps to ensure that the european union as a whole accedes to this important international convention.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i have voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the 25th anniversary of the adoption of the un convention on the rights of the child. the commemoration of this anniversary is not just empty phrases, nor is respect for the fundamental rights of children taken for granted a quarter of a century after the adoption of the convention. since the start of the economic crisis, the number of children living below the poverty line in the developed world has increased to 76.5 million, according to a report by the united nations children's fund. children are also particularly affected by cuts in social security systems and reductions in social benefits. i consider these figures unacceptable, and stronger protection of children's rights must be at the heart of any european policy. children are the most vulnerable and most vulnerable group in our population, and we must work to ensure that every child has a hope for a good future.
in writing. - i am glad that the european union is giving the utmost attention to the protection of human rights, but we still lack adequate protection for the most vulnerable eu citizens, european children. that is why i consider this resolution to be very important and i believe that we will continue to work together to ensure that children's rights are not only guaranteed on paper, but also in practice. but our society also needs to ensure that children's rights are not used against children themselves, as happens in cases where children are taken from their parents and placed in families of strangers. i have drawn attention to the case of the czech children of michalák in norway, where, in my opinion, the validity of the un convention on the rights of the child has been violated.
in writing. – i supported the alde resolution on the digital single market. i don’t believe it is the european parliament’s role to interfere in ongoing cases relating to competition. the alde resolution is more balanced, in this respect, than the epp and s&d resolution as we do not specifically call for the unbundling of search engines at this moment. it is important, in my view, that search engines are fair and balanced and we as parliamentarians should ensure that the necessary legislative framework is in place for this. we want a dynamic and adaptable digital single market, and we must continue to press in order for this to be achieved.
in writing. i supported the resolution on promoting consumer rights in the digital single market because setting up a consumer-friendly digital internal market is undoubtedly one of the main tasks of the new commission and this resolution is parliament's first contribution to the debate on how to achieve this objective. the digital single market must be based on non-discriminatory access and create conditions for fair competition. i consider it equally important to set a high level of consumer protection in the digital environment. i therefore welcome the call on the commission to oversee the implementation and enforcement of existing legislation such as the consumer rights directive, alternative dispute resolution and online dispute resolution. the resolution also targets internet search engines. internet searching is already an integral part of the daily lives of european citizens. i welcome the fact that the resolution opens up a debate on how the rules will be set in the market.
in writing. i supported today's resolution on the digital single market, taking into account the interests of citizens-consumers. the protection of data and user data, the level playing field for businesses operating on the internet and, in particular, net neutrality, need to be respected. the privileging of large players would fundamentally jeopardise the equality of users and the freedom to disseminate information, the fundamental principles on which the internet is built.
in writing. - i voted against the resolution that calls for the unbundling of google. indeed, i believe that the european parliament should not interfere in the internal functioning of companies. the role of our institution is to ensure fair competition and consumer choice. what we need is an ambitious digital single market package, a global vision and not a debate on the google case. i also would like to remind that it is the responsibility of the commissioner vestager to investigate and to take actions to protect the digital single market and the consumer if she thinks it is necessary.
in writing. i am a strong supporter of completing the digital single market and support a number of the resolution's points in this regard. i could not support the text as a whole because it contains points with which i do not agree. in particular, it concerns the separation of search engines from other commercial services.
commissioner, i'd like to join my line of speakers. i too will be critical of the commission's proposal. there are at least three good reasons for insisting that the commission's proposal be rejected in this form. the first is fair competition. we must not allow those transport companies that force drivers to work in inhuman conditions, that practice illegal cabotage, that circumvent the rules, to have an unfair advantage in the fierce competition that exists in this sector. this is unacceptable. the second reason is the worsening problem of social dumping. the good reputation of hauliers must include decent conditions for drivers, who are employed in a dignified, not slave-like, way. the third and most important reason, closely linked to the previous two, is the safety of drivers and all other road users throughout europe. how else can we motivate carriers to eliminate the unacceptable practices mentioned many times in today's debate than by rigorously enforcing the rules that will be reflected in the assessment of their good repute. for these reasons, i cannot support the commission's proposal in its present form.
mr president, i would like to draw your attention to a point which i consider to be of the utmost importance. and that is the question that the national front with president marie le pen for its political activities accepted a loan of 9 million euros from the first czech-russian bank. in principle, it is not decisive whether this loan was granted by the russian central bank or by its czech branch. in any event, the european union should consider whether or not the acceptance of loans for political parties of member states from institutions of non-member states of the european union, with which the european union is, moreover, in an international dispute, is in accordance with the principles of the european union. in my opinion, we should not have a situation where a country like the russian federation actually pays a political party for its future activities. this is what china can do and so on. i think that the union should pay due attention to this matter and i would like to call on it to do so.
mr president, commissioner, the commission says it has better rules now. but there's one problem, no one follows the rules. take france, where the deficit is over 4% of gdp and you pretend it doesn't exist. and if someone tries to follow your rules, it's at the cost of stalling economic growth and at the cost of increasing unemployment. you try to cure one bad policy decision - the introduction of the single euro currency - by another bad policy decision, namely by dictating strict budgetary rules. it can't work. i therefore call on the european commission to prepare an amendment to the treaty on european union so that it is legally possible to leave the euro area. you know that the parties that do not want the euro are winning in greece, in italy and elsewhere. then italy, greece will be able to leave the eurozone, the czech republic will not have to join. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. when the european central bank says it wants to stimulate the economy, it always means it wants to abuse the monopoly on monetary policy, it wants to inflate and it wants to solve problems at the expense of all the people who use money. i think that rather than trying to so-called solve problems through the central bank, it's actually better to let the countries that don't like the euro leave the eurozone.
mr president, first of all let me say that i am quite happy that we can discuss this subject, that we are discussing the rules that were approved a few years ago and which i believe are increasing the probability that countries will run better economic policies. policies that are good for the countries, but also good for all of us. also policies that help us to stop the debt crisis. and here let me remind my british colleagues that the debt crisis has by no means only affected the countries from the euro area, but also many other countries outside of the euro. i was surprised to hear that many people said that the rules have failed. i guess what we can see failed for sure were the pre-crisis economic policies of many states, the policies that were generating higher deficit, the policies that increased debt-to-gdp ratios, were increasing expected expenditure and were calling for credibility and tolerance for bad economic policies. if we are trying to find someone who is responsible for the current high unemployment and weak economic growth, these are, in my opinion, the suspects. what should be done now? i do not think we should focus on changes to a framework that has been in place for only a short time and has so far, i believe, worked quite well. we should be careful about considering changes that undermine credibility. we should bear in mind that an increase of one percentage point in the interest rate will increase the budget deficit by 1% on average. also, depreciation of the currency, which is quite often proposed by our british colleagues, will also hurt the fiscal balance. in the future we can discuss many things, among others how to make countries respect more the country-specific recommendations, how to calculate a better structurally adjusted balance or eventually how to pay more attention to non-euro area countries.
in writing. i voted for the election of emily o'reilly as european ombudsman. i consider her very competent for this position. during the hearing, she answered all the questions put to her in substance. in particular, i appreciate its cooperation with the responsible committees of the european parliament over the past years and i trust that this cooperation will be further strengthened in the future.
in writing. the objective of this agreement is to facilitate and extend cooperation between the european union and morocco in the operation of the global satellite navigation system. in addition to satellite navigation, gnss is also used for time keeping and includes the fully civilian-controlled galileo system. cooperation with the kingdom of morocco will be mainly in the fields of scientific research, industrial production, market and service development and security. this agreement shall not affect the legal and institutional set-up of the european gnss supervisory authority. i believe this is an important step in the development towards closer international cooperation in the field of diplomacy and scientific development.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and ukraine was first signed in copenhagen in 2002 and has been regularly renewed since then. i believe that renewing the agreement for another five years would be in the best interest of both parties. and this process is very well timed. it is of course very important that the continuity of relations between ukraine and the european union in the field of science and technology be maintained. but it will also send another clear signal that the european union is firmly convinced of ukraine's future within the community of european states.
in writing. i voted in favour of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and ukraine. i welcome the continuation of this agreement because ukraine faces a number of reforms and the preparation and implementation of these reforms require data and developments in economic, social policy or demographic indicators. the agreement envisages joint activities in areas such as social science research, training and exchanges of scientists. i know that ukraine is planning education reforms and therefore will need to engage in research projects and studies that will help set up an effective education policy. to date, ukraine has no relevant quantitative or qualitative data and is not involved in international comparative research. this is just one of the areas that show the need for cooperation that should bring improvements for the citizens of ukraine.
mr president, mr vice-president, the debate has returned from a sitcom to a real debate, and if you allow me, i will continue along those lines. you have introduced to us the programme, a version of which was leaked a few days ago. this was fine, it was advance notice so we could be prepared. but on the other hand, i hope that the information that this programme has been driven by the services and the secretariat general is not a leak, but just gossip, because what we expect from a political commission is very thorough political work. now on the programme: it is a good paper. it is still general, of course, and we will have to get down to the nitty—gritty, but i think that it addresses a number of issues. on the other hand, what i notice in the plan is that we also somehow slightly neglect other issues which are of daily concern to citizens. the economic and social agenda is definitely among these, but there are other issues which may be less prominent. now on the investment plan: i really regret that the commission, at least at this stage, missed an opportunity to link the benefits which the investment plan is to bring with the structural changes which need to occur in the member states. i would be looking for conditionality, in other words. now in terms of better regulation, i think that this is a good first step that we have seen today. i am a little bit concerned as to whether we will see a real system soon enough; this is what i am looking for and what i am missing in the plan. there is no system; there are no targets; there are no benchmarks. we need to look at its complexity. a final remark: we are currently in the process of withdrawing legislation. hopefully this is the right thing to do, but i would expect that this process would be based on impact assessments. legislative initiatives have to be based on impact assessments, and so should their withdrawal. i am not sure i understood it; i would appreciate a clarification on that. it is a good start, but as a cornerstone we would be really looking for a solid system that would bring better regulation.
in writing.– dear president juncker, the commission rightly points out that one of the biggest challenges we are facing in europe is getting more people into work and ensuring that workers have the rights skills for the jobs of the future. i am looking forward to the commission’s proposals on the measures to support these efforts, including the initiative on promoting integration and employability in the labour market. whilst drafting its proposals, i encourage the commission to take fully on board the parliament’s suggestions on creating a competitive eu labour market for the 21st century, which we will start working on early next year. thank you!
in writing. the internal market is one of the pillars of the development of the european economy, a tool for more employment, sustainable growth and investment. at the same time, we social democrats are always in agreement that high social and environmental standards and consumer protection policies are also an integral part of its development. i therefore trust that the commission will take this holistic approach to the internal market into account in its work programme for 2015 when presenting concrete initiatives. from the consumer's point of view, i see the priorities for the next 12 months as including agreement on consumer safety packaging and market surveillance and effectively tackling any form of consumer discrimination within the internal market. we must pay close attention to the specific content of the ambitious digital single market package endorsed by the commission, including an assessment of the societal impacts of digital developments.
ladies and gentlemen, the european union has a budget of approximately 140 billion euros. many supporters of european integration say that this is actually not enough, that it is less than what is being redistributed by the individual national member states. but it seems to me that it's a lot to ask for a few people to decide on 140 billion euros. when i look at how they're spent, i see a huge waste. that budget is unfair, it causes great injustice, some countries pay more than they get, some countries get more than they pay, and in all of those countries, that budget causes debt growth. if we were to abolish the payments made by the member states to the budget of the european union, everyone would save. those who pay more would not have such a deficit and those who receive would not have to borrow so much to finance, co-finance european projects. that is why i would be in favour of abolishing all membership dues to the european union.
mr president, i would first like to thank all the rapporteurs, the commissioner and all those who took part in the negotiations. ladies and gentlemen, it must be remembered that without a clear position from the european parliament, these negotiations would have been a complete fiasco. i am also glad that we are facing a proper budget and not one twelfth of the budget. because it would undermine confidence in the european union and it would undermine the projects of our scientists and students. i also think it is important that we have managed to negotiate a good package with the council for growth and innovation, which is good news for the future. overall, i think the budget is a well-negotiated compromise. i do have one small complaint, though. as the budget rapporteur on the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i have to say that i am a little disappointed in one thing. we are currently facing a large influx of migrants from conflict zones, and we can expect this to increase. therefore, we need to have sufficient funding for frontex, europol and easo and equip them with sufficient financial and human resources to be able to face these challenges. any reduction may have an impact on the ability of those agencies to fulfil their tasks, on internal security and on immigration and asylum policy.
in writing . to my relief, the european parliament has managed to reach a compromise with the european commission and the council on the amending budgets for 2014 and the budget for 2015. although the negotiations were made more difficult by the council's selfish and irresponsible attitude, it is commendable that parliament's representatives managed to reduce the volume of the most urgent unpaid invoices and at least slightly increase the volume of the budget for the next year. although the payment crisis was averted, the outcome cannot be considered very satisfactory. it is no longer possible to turn a blind eye to the european union's protracted payment problems and thereby jeopardise the fulfilment of the commitments made by the council itself towards students, smes, ngos and others. it is intolerable to try to accommodate member states which have been ignored by parliament for the entire 21 days of the conciliation procedure and whose only concern has been to postpone their own additional payments for the following year. i therefore support not only an early audit, which must clarify the european union's real debt situation, and the subsequent development of a plan to bring the debt down to a sustainable level, but also the reform of the own resources of the european union budget. it is unthinkable that the european parliament should be kept in the clutches of the council in the budgetary process, which should be used to set budgetary priorities, as we have seen in recent years.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, first of all i give my apologies, as immediately after my contribution i will have to leave because we have a group meeting on an important document that we are voting on tomorrow. in fact, commissioner, you have facilitated my comments. i was one of those who initiated this debate. i think the commission came forward with a very quick response, but i am still concerned. i think the suspension of food assistance is not only extremely damaging, but i would even say that it is nearly a criminal act, taking into account the situation the refugees are in. i am afraid that in a few months’ time, we will be in a very similar situation. i have understood that you are fully aware of that. i would invite you – with the support of this house – to be tough. being tough is a cliché, but i want to express that we will support you in being demanding towards our partners. we are not just talking about the refugees, but about the situation in the neighbouring countries where we see a collapse of the economy, social system, food supplies and water supplies. look at lebanon, a country with a population of around 4 million, if i am not mistaken. there are over a million refugees on the borders of lebanon. this is a serious situation. we need to pay thorough attention to this subject in the future. you will have our support, but we will have high expectations.
the question posed by the blue card. mr. speaker, can you explain to us how you prevent lone wolves from committing terrorist acts? could you explain to us what strategy is used to deter lone wolves from committing a separate terrorist act? thank you for your answer.
mr president, i would also like to thank you for this initiative, because i consider it very, very important. ensuring the security and freedom of european citizens is one of the most important tasks of the european union for me. but we must not allow the new european union security strategy to become a monster of new instruments and measures that will not be monitored and controlled by anyone. i therefore call on the european commission to carry out a thorough analysis of the current iss instruments and to propose their effective use in the new security strategy. today, the security issue is taking on new dimensions, not only because of conflicts in our immediate neighbourhood, but also because of the dangers within the european union the growing radicalisation associated with terrorism and violence. according to the latest statistics, over three thousand europeans are fighting in foreign conflicts. and i ask, how did these people get there? we have to break up this network, this clutch, this octopus that operates here in the european union and through the internet recruits new members for these activities in foreign countries. and that's one of the fundamental priorities not just of european humanists, but i think of all the smart people sitting in this room.
mr president, first of all i regret that the gentleman from ukip left after his artistic performance because i was going to tell him that i also know some british businesses which have invested abroad; they are looking forward to the investment plan. it is composed of the three pillars the president spoke about and in fact all three of them are absolutely relevant and very much in joint implementation. included in that regulation is the issue that has been referred to: the development of the internal market, which some members are also fond of. let me now just make one remark: i am sure that the investment plan could have been fine-tuned a bit, could have been more inspired by some inputs, including some from our group. i might have certain minor hesitations about some of the elements but it is a good plan and this is what the european union, our citizens and businesses were looking for. it is not comparable with what the previous commission was submitting. i am also not yet convinced by some of the elements and i did not really receive yesterday an answer on the better regulation. i suspect the basis is a solid one but i very much hope that we will progress on that. let me refer now to the council. minister, i found your intervention at the very beginning very disappointing. basically very general, not concrete, not addressing the issues as if the council is completely unaware of what is really going on in europe. mr verhofstadt has spoken about the telecoms package, something that citizens and businesses have been waiting months for, if not years. what is the progress on roaming, on net neutrality? it is very minor in terms of time. the second issue which has not been referred to – let me finish with that – is the fourth railway package. where are we on that? we have not really even started and we have a debate that we will be splitting the technical part and the governance part. no. businesses will invest if we progress on those. i could continue with a number of other sectors but we are not getting a thorough reply. (the speaker agreed to take a blue card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i did not really understand the question of which bad investments you were referring to, but i think that the answer is once again very clear. i very much firmly believe in private investments, but i do appreciate that the plan which is on the table today is to encourage investments. i am telling you once again: i have spoken to a number of british investors and their appreciation is quite high. obviously they make remarks, but the words they use are completely different from the ones that i heard a few minutes ago from your colleague.
mr president, allow me to comment briefly on the main theme of the december european council. there is no doubt that europe needs to increase investment. network infrastructure together with research and innovation should certainly be the first thing on our minds. but first, we have to ask, why are private investors holding back? i can only refer to the speech made by our group chairman, syed kamall, at the last plenary session. as for the european commission's investment plan, i can only agree with the ambition to set up a predictable regulatory environment for business. but i have serious doubts about the two main pillars. it's a magic number with on the entrance 16 billion from the eu and 5 billion from the eib and then 315 billion using the multiplication effect of 15. second, why are we pouring money from programs that we've been hard at work negotiating? they have barely started, and after a year we are withdrawing them, namely 3.3 billion from the connecting europe facility (cef) and 2.7 billion from horizon 2020. will all the selected projects actually meet the return criterion? there are a lot of questions.
mr president, i am convinced that my voice will now be lost, but i would like to make that statement. i welcome the rapprochement with the republic of moldova, which i supported as chairman of the czech-moldova friendship group. this convergence is already bringing significant benefits to the citizens of moldova and the now approved autonomous trade preferences agreement is, in my view, the conclusion of this convergence process. as i mentioned in the debate that followed the conclusion of the association agreement, visa-free travel, the european union's highest support for moldova with the eastern partnership countries, of course also the further elimination of import duties on most products, the expected increase in moldova's national income by eur 150 million per year, the increase in investment in moldova, these are all benefits that this association agreement and subsequent agreements offer. i therefore warmly welcome them and congratulate moldova on its success.
in writing. — it is good to have a final agreement on next year’s budget. i am pleased to see further resources allocated to the european asylum support office, which has an ever increasing number of tasks. although it is concerning that the funds available for humanitarian aid to areas such as south sudan are not sufficiently reinforced to address what is a potentially devastating malnutrition situation, i am encouraged to see that we have allocated further funds in this year’s budget to help those most in need. the european union’s budget can be a useful tool for member states to boost economic growth and this is a sensible budget for 2015. for this reason i voted in favour.
in writing. why did i decide to abstain from voting on the resolution on the eu budget for 2015? the 2015 budget will be slightly higher than the current one. unlike the council's original proposal, there was at least an increase in the items relating to science and research, an increase in financial support for unrwa and rapid humanitarian aid. the proposal is also concerned with the continuing lack of funds for the fight against poverty and the simple, incomprehensible figures game in the budget line for promoting youth employment, which is only intended to mask the eu's inability to devote sufficient resources to combating this problem. although i have considerable reservations about the 2015 budget, i have decided to abstain because i believe that a proper conclusion of the budgetary process will allow the timely transfer of the necessary funds to areas that i consider to be my priorities, such as smes, cohesion, science, research, education, youth support, humanitarian aid, etc. the budgetary interim would not benefit anyone and would seriously complicate the financing of major european projects. moreover, it should be stressed that, in the absence of any alternative budget proposal, the ep was left with a near-impossible situation.
in writing. i supported the resulting compromise of the eu budget for 2015 as it is necessary to first resolve the refinancing of the existing 2014 commitments, which the agreement allows. the new budget also provides funding for priority areas, notably strengthening competitiveness, citizenship, but also strengthening eu security. the european parliament's negotiators succeeded, contrary to the council's initial view, in increasing funding for horizon 2020 research and development and the erasmus+ student exchange programme, among other things, which are long-standing priorities of the social democrats.
in writing. i supported the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015 in today's vote, but i would like to point out that the european union's 2016 budget should already reflect the level of respect for human rights in the countries receiving development aid in the development aid chapter.
in writing. the commission proposal does not seem to offer a complete and perfect solution to the problem of infringements, but it would make it possible to move forward towards creating a fair environment for trucking. the rejection of this proposal, which parliament has approved and which i voted against, could lead to a substantial delay and slowdown in this process. i consider that undesirable. i consider the requirements to include the area of so-called social dumping in this regulation to be even more controversial. not only do i find that term highly controversial, but in particular i do not consider that it falls within the scope of the regulation.
in writing. i voted against the motion for a resolution on the commission's proposal for two main reasons. i believe it is important that the list of infringements be adopted and enter into force as from the first day of 2016, so that the control authorities of the member states have a rule that allows them to assess each serious infringement of the rules in a uniform manner. at the same time, i consider that the proposal to include illegal cabotage as an offence is not in line with the czech interests, since it actually touches on the problem of so-called social dumping in road transport, notwithstanding the fact that, in my opinion, its inclusion as an offence endangering road transport is, in principle, problematic.
in writing. i consider the current draft directive to be wrong, as it clearly goes against the eu's objectives of reducing emissions and promoting a low-carbon economy. this proposal needs to be revised and i regret that a minority of members blocked a motion for a parliament resolution calling on the commission to revise the draft directive. the european union would lower its environmental standards by adopting the proposal, instead of motivating other non-european states to promote cleaner transport. i am fundamentally opposed to the linking of the directive to the eu-canada free trade agreement, as some colleagues, for example from the ecr group, have presented to us, probably under pressure from a powerful lobby.
in writing. — it is positive to see that the parliament adopted the resolution on the internal security strategy. i consider the renewal of the iss a necessary step forward in order to better identify newly emerged security threats. the schengen area, enabling free movement across the eu, brought internal security challenges that member states may find difficult to deal with on their own. therefore it is crucial for member states to cooperate and seek to improve their ability to collectively respond to cross-border crime.
mr. chairman, thank you for the floor. i would like to comment on why i did not support the resolution that concerns the process of recognizing a palestinian state. i consider that recognition of a palestinian state is possible and desirable only as a result of a bilateral agreement. i mean, the joint israeli-palestinian agreement and the resulting peace process. the resolution adopted is not as clear-cut and can therefore be interpreted differently and thus misused. i consider that a risk, especially at a time when israel is campaigning for elections. for these reasons, i could not support this resolution.
i have indicated in advance that i will not support this resolution because its text as it stands does not resolve anything and i consider today's decision by the european parliament to be very wrong. in view of what i have said before, i think that anti-semitic and anti-israeli sentiments are again being voiced here. i think this resolution will not help to bring peace to the palestinian-israeli territory.
mr president, the european parliament's vote on palestine today is clearly a mistake. it's a mistake for two reasons. firstly, the european parliament is again sticking its nose into something that is none of its business. unfortunately, the european parliament has no powers, nor does the european commission have any powers to recognise individual states. it is such a sensitive and delicate matter that we all know that the positions of the individual member states of the european union differ, and if the european parliament insensitively tries to fit it into a single template, it is making a mistake and unnecessarily exposing this sensitive subject. and secondly, i'm afraid that today's vote may also embolden radical elements on the palestinian side. if today the european court of justice removed hamas from the list of terrorist organisations, even temporarily, then, combined with our vote today, this may seem to support forces that we do not want and should not support - those who are not immune to violence and terrorism. and that's why i think it's a big mistake.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the recognition of the state of palestine because i consider it, in principle, to be a first step in the right direction. the recognition of a palestinian state, its people and its borders has long been an important international commitment and a necessary step towards peace. this recognition is also based on a number of un resolutions. it should be recalled that a number of national parliaments of eu member states have already called on their governments to officially recognise palestine. member states must now formally recognise and protect the territory of the state of palestine, based on the 1967 borders, with east jerusalem as its capital. i therefore also call on all parties to refrain from any action that could jeopardise the viability and prospects of resolving this protracted problem. the conflict must end, the daily bloodshed and loss of life must be stopped immediately, the wall must be dismantled and the attacks on holy sites and the demolition of palestinian property must be stopped unconditionally.
in writing. the resolution is a compromise which secured the adoption of this document by an overwhelming majority of meps. i too supported it, even though it risks significantly misinterpreting what parliament has approved. i consider it necessary to interpret the resolution only to the extent that it corresponds to its wording. the recognition of the state of palestine is the end, not the beginning of the process.
in writing. in today's vote on the resolution on the recognition of the palestinian state, i voted against, as i believe that this unilateral call does not help to resolve the situation and, on the contrary, may cause it to escalate further.
in writing. — as regards the resolution on palestine statehood and the related voting i have abstained. while i can only appreciate the enormous effort of negotiating colleague meps of a number of political groups to arrive at a consensual resolution, i regret to state that the resulting wording provides for a number of interpretations of some of the provisions. the second main reason for which i could not vote in favour is the fact that there is no concrete provision expressing the expectation of recognition of israel as a sovereign state. i firmly believe that the high representative for cfsp should now come with concrete inputs into a possible eu common approach. once this happens, i expect a thorough debate in the ep plenary.
in writing. i voted against the resolution mainly because it interferes with the sphere of the member states. moreover, such a reckless interference in the peace process can only do more harm than good. the alternative resolution of our group, which was politically balanced, was unfortunately rejected by a majority of members of the european parliament.
in writing. in the context of addressing the eu's economic and social challenges, the requirement of reindustrialising europe is widely accepted. it is still unsustainable that the mass of the labour force has shifted to the services sector after the departure of agricultural workers, while their share in the industrialised sector continues to decline. without modernised industry, european countries will become dependent on imports of strategic materials and products. among them is steel. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution on the necessary revitalisation and protection of the european steel industry.
in writing. - i would like to stress my support for resolution on the steel sector in the eu. the european union is facing high unemployment and low economic growth. this results in a difficult social situation for citizens and it is our duty to change it. that is also why i am really glad that the amendment from the gue/ngl which was mainly focused on the protection of the employees who have been dismissed, successfully passed through. the only way is to recover european industry, and the steel industry is one of its keystones. therefore we must insist on steps that will help to raise industry to 20% of gdp by 2020. one of the necessary steps is to ensure a level playing field in the negotiation of international treaties like ttip. citizens in other parts of the world deserve as high social and environmental standards as we have in the european union. another important issue is that the steel industry is one of the energy-intensive sectors, so that competitiveness very much depends on energy prices. we must have this in mind when we form energy policy, and ensure that energy will be produced for affordable prices. i consider the resolution important and its aims should be launched into policies of the european union.
in writing. the steel industry was at the very beginning of the process of european integration in the 1950s and it is still of vital importance to the european economy. as one of the drafters of this resolution, i am pleased that there is a consensus in the european parliament on the need to help the steel industry find a way out of the current crisis, which has already resulted in the loss of some 60 000 jobs in the sector. the crisis was caused both by a decline in demand for steel products and, in particular, by developments on the world steel market. in a global market where many countries produce with far lower social and environmental standards, europe can compete primarily on quality and innovation. therefore, it is necessary to support the steel industry not only from a medium-term perspective (export conditions contained in trade agreements or compliance with european competition rules by global players) but above all to look at the long-term perspective of the sector, investing in the training of the sector's employees and in research and development. the funding of education and research should be covered both by the eu institutions (eib and eu programmes, notably horizon 2020 and spire) and by the private sector, ideally from the proceeds of emission allowances.
in writing. — i have voted against the resolution as the resulting text does not come with a clear and conceptual approach addressing the real needs of this industry. i am sure that not only the steel industry in the czech republic would appreciate a resolution which would address these needs. i am of the firm opinion that the alde draft was much much closer to achieving this. unfortunately our political partners opted for a more popular but inefficient approach.
in writing. unfortunately, the resolution adopted contains some problematic points and does not fully address the key ones, which is why i abstained. steel and its related engineering activities are one of the mainstays of the european economy. but protectionism is not the recipe for a decline in competitiveness in world markets. steel products from asia are not burdened by european regulations and the world's highest energy prices. europe is putting an alarming amount of pressure on its own steel industry. the legislative conditions for steel production itself are being tightened. current technology seems to have reached its limits and it is unlikely that co2 will be reduced by 80-95% by 2050, as required. there is a need for energy price reductions, reductions or exemptions from various alternative source charges for energy intensive sectors and a review of the emissions trading system. only then will we preserve 400,000 jobs and remain the second largest steel producer in the world.
madam president, i would simply like to comment on some of the speeches made here, particularly those by the greek members. some of them were very correct, but unfortunately some of the non-attached members tried to use them to promote their particular national interests. i think that's a little bit bold, even in the context of this subject, which is very serious. i want to declare myself a friend of turkey, but human rights violations cannot be tolerated. it is essential that europe supports those states which share its values. therefore, given that turkey is an acceding candidate country, the council should indeed clearly identify these issues and ask turkey to remedy them.
madam president, we are now ratifying the european union's association agreement with georgia. after ukraine and moldova, the third ratification of the association agreement in this parliamentary term. the motion for a resolution before you is the result of the patient work of the representatives of the political groups, to whom we owe our thanks. we've been through a lot of bumps, and i'll mention two of them. in the process of processing the text, we tried to call things by their right names. let's go back 25 years now. russia has annexed abkhazia. two years later, the chechen war began, in which the russian army killed 80,000 civilians. in 2008, the russian 58th army occupied south ossetia. it was the same army that killed in chechnya. this year, the russian federation has again grossly violated international law twice. it has occupied crimea and unleashed a hybrid war in eastern ukraine. in formulating our draft resolution, we did not use euphemisms and clearly called the occupation an occupation. i think that the position of the european parliament and the whole of the european union must reflect the possibility that the russian federation will continue to violate international law and that the russian military will continue to commit war crimes. if we do not take a clear stand, we may be partly to blame. if europe had clearly condemned the aggression in chechnya and abkhazia, there would have been no aggression in ukraine. this is also evidenced by the fact that the russian federation has concluded a new agreement with abkhazia, which may lead to the direct annexation of certain parts of georgian territory and their incorporation into the territory of the russian federation. in negotiating the text, we did not fail to point out that the new georgian regime, although democratically elected after many decades, criminalizes members of the former political set-up. ladies and gentlemen, please give the green light to this very important resolution.
for the ppe group. mr. president, the venezuelan regime is trying to silence the opposition by imprisoning them. thousands of people, including politicians, journalists and students, have been imprisoned since the unfortunate events of february. one of them is leopoldo lópez, a prominent opposition politician. i support this resolution because i am commanded by historical experience. even here in the former soviet bloc, communist regimes tried to silence opposition by persecution and imprisonment. that's why the support that came from democratic countries 25 years ago was so important to us. and i think that's the kind of democratic support that venezuela needs today. free leopoldo lópez, free thousands of venezuelans who are like him.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, we are witnessing a severe deterioration in the rights of the venezuelan people. we can't sit on the sidelines, waiting for things to get worse. that is why i ask the council to start considering specific sanctions against officials of the maduro government as an option. i am appalled by the way the regime treats its people. venezuelans who exercise their democratic right to peacefully protest against the failed government policy are exposed to systematic repression and brutality by the security forces. i call on the competent authorities to release all political prisoners who have been arbitrarily detained and denied fair treatment, including, among others, leopoldo lópez and maría machado. we cannot tolerate any more that opposition leaders are subjected to abuse and punishment and that in venezuela there is no functioning judicial power that can investigate and prosecute this type of situation fairly.
in writing. the venezuelan power struggle against opposition leader and presidential candidate enrique capriles radonsky is one that stirs our emotions. it would be difficult to find a person among us who would take pleasure in such persecution. the problem is, someone's counting on this reaction. he's also considering the public's emotions. and he wants to use it to overturn the election, to overthrow the government of president nicolás maduro. i think it's time we said openly whether we're for democracy or for non-colonial control of the rest of the world. are we going to resent every defense of an election that didn't go our way, and add fuel to the fire at every maidan? whether our advocacy of human rights will take the form of bombing tripoli and silently watching the fascists line up in odessa. do we disregard the will of the majority whenever it suits a few of the powerful and wealthy? there are times when you have to make a choice. when our speech must be yes, yes no, no, no. i know. and i say no to further spreading chaos in the world. let's not blame the others. let's look in our own ranks. and let's say no to the spread of chaos. let's say yes to a stable venezuela and a free latin america.
i would like to point out, mr president, that as has already been said, mauritania was indeed the last country in the world to abolish the system of slavery in 1981. it took 26 years for the crime of slavery to be introduced into its legislation. however, since 2007, only a few individual cases of convictions for the crime of slavery are known. according to a report by the walk free foundation, mauritania has the highest percentage of its population living in modern slavery, at 4%. both these figures show how complex and difficult it is to change long-standing customs in a traditionalist society, but this cannot be any excuse for this behavior. the european union should therefore, as a partner, help mauritania to overcome this terrible situation. and i would like to thank mr predo for having been the initiator of this resolution, which is very important to me.
madam president, i would like to make just one very important observation on this matter. in october 2013, the european parliament adopted a resolution on migration flows in the mediterranean. shortly afterwards, the council set up a mediterranean working group, which was followed by a number of commission communications. i very much welcome this resolution because it is complex in many ways. i personally support a comprehensive solution agreed by all the countries of the european union. and my last wish for 2015 is that we really look for a solution that we, the democratic parties of the european parliament, can agree on. if we don't talk about immigration, we democrats, we leave this topic to various populists and nationalists, and that certainly doesn't help the issue of immigration. thank you and have a great holiday.
in writing. although i do not wish to challenge the findings of the un special rapporteur on the situation of labour exploitation in the fisheries sector, i could not support the motion, especially as i know that the philippines is working intensively to address the situation. the proposed measures and the actual impact of the resolution are, in my view, disproportionate and i have to ask myself what impact they may have on the eu-philippines relationship. my position is justified only by the fact that the philippines is genuinely trying to rectify the situation and i admit that if there are no significant improvements in the foreseeable future, i will reconsider my position.
in writing. the eastern partnership project aims to achieve stability and prosperity in the union's neighbourhood. it is mutually beneficial to further deepen the relations between the european union and georgia as one of the partner countries. that's why i fully support the association agreement.
in writing. i fully support the conclusion of an association agreement with georgia. this step is well deserved and is also very important for the country's further internal political development and the further implementation of democratic reforms.
in writing. the eastern partnership project aims to achieve stability and prosperity in the union's neighbourhood. it is mutually beneficial to further deepen the relations between the european union and georgia as one of the partner countries. that's why i fully support the association agreement.
