i declare resumed the sitting adjourned on thursday 12 december 2013.
on 1 january this year, latvia became the 18th country to adopt the euro. we should congratulate the latter on their determination to do so! (applause from the centre) this is certainly an encouraging signal for lithuania, which is seeking to join the euro area next year, making it the 19th country to do so. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to point out again that in recent days and weeks, in many parts of europe, severe storms have hit many eu citizens hard: floods, whole sections of the coastline being submerged, storms causing the most serious damage in many places. we shall discuss this matter in detail at the february part-session. i would like to express once again our solidarity with the victims on behalf of our house and hope that the institutions of the eu and its member states will provide rapid and unbureaucratic help wherever it is needed. ladies and gentlemen, the second conference on the future of syria is scheduled to begin on 22 january 2014 under the auspices of the united nations. this long-awaited meeting is intended to bring together representatives of the syrian regime and opposition, as well as all international partners, with the aim of paving the way for an end to the civil war and the formation of a transitional government. the difficult situation in syria, however, is jeopardizing the holding of this conference. nevertheless, this conference is of crucial importance. the eu has urged all participants not to postpone the date but to carry out the conference. the european parliament's political groups have unanimously endorsed these demands. our parliament will continue to follow developments in syria closely and will actively support all efforts to resolve the conflict. ladies and gentlemen, i have been informed that mr brok has been personally attacked in a statement by the prime minister of romania. the views expressed by mr brok on immigration have been met with a nazi comparison, at least according to the media. i have looked into this and will try to discuss it with mr ponta, whom i have asked to speak to today. i would like to make one point: without prejudice to the examination and without prejudice to the content of mr brok's remarks, i think it is inadmissible to make such nazi comparisons in the first place and that mr brok's integrity is certainly beyond question. (applause from the centre)
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 9 january 2014, pursuant to rule 137 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft:
mr audy, this is not the first time you have pointed this out. the direct reporting after the council meeting of 19 and 20 december, that is to say, of the last council meeting, would have been possible only on christmas eve. i had the impression that the overwhelming majority of the members of this house wanted to spend this holiday with their families rather than with the president of the european council. secondly, i will now take up your suggestion again and bring it to the attention of the conference of presidents. you are right, the reference to the contract is correct. i would like to express my caution: the enthusiasm for this event is relative. we should certainly consider with the group chairmen how we can respond to the justified criticism you have expressed by changing procedures. thursday:
mrs lulling! i am obliged as president to respect the decisions of the conference of presidents. this was decided by a majority vote in the conference of presidents. if you think it should be taken off the agenda, you or your group can ask for it. mrs lulling, as a long-serving quaestor, you know the rules of procedure by heart, and you know that you would have to do this one hour before the start of this plenary session. we are aware of your declaratory statement, but i cannot help you at this stage. (the agenda is therefore adopted.)
no, i was unable to attend this event in person, i was represented by mrs podimata. the order of the words is beyond my knowledge. i believe that is laid down in the greek protocol. i'm going to look into it, and i appreciate the heads-up.
i'm not going to let you go. i do not intend to allow a debate on the statements made by mr ponta and mr brok. now , i want you to listen to me very carefully . i know about the matter from letters and from the press. i'll follow up on the comments. if there is a nazi comparison - i can only read it in the press - i reject it. the content of both mr brok's and mr ponta's remarks will not be discussed here. you can try, but i'm not giving you the floor.
okay, we know that now. no, i'm not letting you do that now. there is no silence. (interruption of the debate) i would ask you to restrain yourself, madam president.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr holger krahmer, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 510/2011 as regards the modalities for achieving the 2020 target for reducing co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles (com ((2012) 0394 c7-0185/2012 2012/0191 (cod)) (a7-0168/2013).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i am glad that we are now entering the agenda with my report, which is very technical in its nature. the light commercial vehicles are sailing a little in the wind of car emissions, but are no less important. i also thought it appropriate that we always kept our dossiers separate. it would be nice if you, mr president, could create an atmosphere where we could actually speak!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. we are dealing with a technical issue co2 emissions, light commercial vehicles which has been navigated in the shadow of the co2 regulation for cars; but since the requirements and challenges of light commercial vehicles are different from those of cars, i thought it appropriate to always promote that we discuss this separately. we have been asked to define in this regulation the means of achieving the objective and to confirm the objective itself. as you know, the objective is to achieve a fleet average of 147 g co2 for light commercial vehicles by 2020. this is a house number we had reached here a few years ago in a very difficult compromise. i am glad that parliament has not yielded to the pressure to make this objective more stringent. i think there were good reasons for not making it worse. the most important reason for me is that 2020 is still a long way off. and if you know the production cycles of the automotive industry, you know that they are longer for light commercial vehicles as well as for cars. it is therefore appropriate, in the interests of planning security, that we have not touched on this objective today but have confirmed it as it stood on paper. we have of course had a discussion about whether we should now include in this document a house number or targets for the year after 2020. of course, there will have to be further development of co2 legislation for light commercial vehicles as well. i think it was right that we did not include in this document any figures which would have anticipated any impact assessment, where we would have ended up dealing with such figures in a kind of turkish bazaar. that is why the arguments were in my report from the outset, which is not to be done here - we are talking about the modalities for 2020 - but to give the commission the appropriate time to propose what is right for the period after 2020 and to discuss this separately. we have not managed to keep what is in the dossier on cars, namely the so-called super-credits - incentives for very low-emission vehicles - in the report on light commercial vehicles. i can live with that personally, although i regret it, because i believe that there is certainly a market for light commercial vehicles, especially in inner cities, and that incentives should be given to particularly low-emission vehicles or electric vans here, in accordance with the regulation. we have sacrificed that in the end as part of the compromise. i think that is acceptable. i also do not think that the debate on speed limits, which we have repeatedly had in this parliament, is really the right one. speed limiters for light commercial vehicles, when installed, are ultimately a road safety issue and have no place in climate protection legislation, especially since the contribution to climate protection would be very limited at the end of the day. of course, we need to talk about the test cycle. the test cycle underlying the co2 emissions we measure and define today is outdated. it also does not reflect the reality of the vehicles' movements in practice. but again, the argument has been made many times - and i still believe it is correct - that the co2 legislation is not the place to define a new test cycle. we cannot today anticipate a test cycle which may be applied in the future and on which we can then base the objectives we are writing into law today. we need a new test cycle, but please discuss this separately and be very careful! i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs from all the political groups who have worked constructively with me on this. i look forward to the vote tomorrow and i am glad that we have succeeded in reaching an agreement at first reading.
member of the commission. − madam president, i shall be brief. first of all, i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr krahmer, for his constructive approach to the commission’s proposal and for all his work steering it towards a first reading agreement. the same also applies, of course, to the shadow rapporteurs. i am glad that we will now soon have the modalities for reaching the 2020 target in place, and that manufacturers therefore will know what they can expect. the commission’s analysis has shown that the 2020 target of 147 grams of co2 per km for newly registered vans is achievable, and it is achievable in a cost-effective manner by employing technologies that are already available today. achieving the 2020 target is, therefore, a win-win-win situation: a win for manufacturers, as they can retain their competitive advantage through building low-emitting vans at prices that consumers can afford; a win for van owners, who can very quickly recoup the increased van purchase price through lower fuel bills; and a win for the european economy, which benefits from lower input bills for oil, as well as seeing the savings from consumers’ lower fuel bills being spent elsewhere, and also elsewhere in europe. as industry needs planning certainty, the final agreement already contains some indications about what will happen after 2020. since we are preparing policy guidelines for a climate and energy framework for 2030, it is very clear that vehicle emissions will also need to continue to be reduced after 2020. to ensure that our future target is based on the best available information, the final compromise calls on the commission to review the legislation by the end of 2015. in this context, the commission has already made a statement which has been transmitted to the european parliament services for inclusion in the minutes. this statement refers both to the annual rate of reduction of co2 emissions and the range of ambition indicated by parliament of 105–120 grams of co2 per kilometre. therefore, in order to prepare the 2015 review, the commission will this spring launch a consultation on the basis of a communication which will look into the various issues and parameters which would need to be addressed when setting a target for the period after 2020.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the result for light commercial vehicles today is a victory for reason. i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr holger krahmer, in particular. it was not easy for them to prevail against the sometimes extreme positions, sometimes unworldly positions of the environment committee. the only remaining option is to set the already ambitious timetable for reducing co2 emissions to just under 150 g by 2020. there can be no binding reductions for the time after that. the committee on industry has already expressed its opinion. it is only on the basis of impact assessments that further savings plans may or may not be possible, depending on the outcome of these impact assessments. if we had given in to the red-green push for binding reduction targets by 2025, we would have isolated european commercial vehicle manufacturers globally. this is especially true of the absurd proposals for speed limiters, which have no place in this regulation, which is about road safety. we have now reached a good compromise on this point, and also on the innovation performance and test cycles. here again we have been able to achieve a viable compromise between ecological and economic concerns. with the new eu requirements, we will be able to secure the technological leadership of european manufacturers and at the same time make a really good contribution to environmental protection!
i have to say, madam president, we're just confirming a decision today or we'll do it tomorrow. the 147 grams for 2020 is a realistic value. but he is not ambitious, we are actually stepping in right now with this legislation. but as has just been mentioned, it is a compromise. i would have liked to have had other things in this compromise, namely that we should introduce speed limits for light commercial vehicles too. we have it in other commercial vehicles, it's there, it's not exotic or extraordinary, and it would have been a really cost-effective element to save co2 in everyday life. because the point is that we're matching the co2 emissions to the consumption that we have in real operations. i am therefore glad that a world cycle will soon be set in motion which reflects the real consumption. because sometimes you feel like if you look at the consumption in the sales brochure and then you measure the consumption in real life at the gas station, there's a huge gap. we need consumer-friendly solutions here, and it needs to be more adapted to reality. i am also glad that we have a clause in it that we will get a review in the next period to see where the technology is going, where the journey is going, to then adjust the legislation if necessary. because we have set a corridor: 105 to 120 grams of co2 emissions by 2025. this is one of the major advances in this report.
i have to say, madam president, i am very pleased with the compromise, because it is ambitious. he's not what some of his colleagues have described him as. in 2007, we had an average of 203 grams per mile. the 2020 target of 147 g will reduce emissions by 28%, more than the overall target set in the european commission's 2020 climate strategy. so it is ambitious. i'm very pleased with that. i also believe, however, that every effort should be made to re-develop and verify the test cycle. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. the car i drive doesn't. my actual driving value is below the stated value, which means that you can also save co2 and therefore fuel by using different driving modes. i think that in particular these small commercial vehicles... and mrs šuica gave the wrong figure: less than 50% of transport emissions come from small commercial vehicles. even all vehicles small commercial vehicles and large trucks together do not account for 50%. road transport accounts for less than 12% of the total. so you have to be factually correct when you think about what is necessary. the manufacturers need planning certainty, and the smes, the small and mediumsized enterprises, need vehicles with which to offer their services. we have found a reasonable compromise here. i'm glad some things were prevented. 110 g has been mentioned here again in 2025. the supercredits were maintained as decided in 2011. and mrs ulvskog said that this is the bottom of the barrel. she would have been in favour of setting the same emission targets for all, regardless of the type and size of the vehicle. the commission has to ask its northern european truck manufacturers, volvo and scania, whether they agree with this. mr davies said that it was a win-win situation if we wrote the requirements up. i think it is reasonable as it has been done, and i will therefore support the proposal in my conviction! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. greenpeace is not yet responsible for industrial policy, nor for environmental policy. the demands mr schlyter has just quoted are the age-old demands of non-politically responsible ngos. i reject that that is the standard. the standard is what the commission has proposed and what parliament and the council have decided, nothing more and nothing less.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. mr langen forgot to praise mr krahmer. i shall take this off the record, however. i would like to use the two minutes to briefly comment on some of the contributions made by some of the members. we sometimes underestimate that there is competition in the light commercial vehicle market - of course not only in the - but also in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - in the - commercial vehicles are almost exclusively - this may not be true of light commercial vehicles - purchased for commercial applications. this means that fuel consumption is the decisive factor in the purchase. this means that we do not have to force industry - and certainly not by force and brazenly - to build low-consumption vehicles. if there is a manufacturer who is likely to invent the carl schlyter-inspired wonder vehicle that emits nothing and costs as much as those that are there today, then it will probably immediately have a world market share of significant orders of magnitude. i also want to repeat and underline what richard seeber said: not all fuel savings compensate for higher purchase costs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. and when the purchase prices of new cars get too high, the effect is simply that the older ones are driven longer. and then we've got nothing on carbon emissions at the end of the day. many of the arguments i have heard here - and especially from the green group, mr schlyter - are questions of faith. it is a bold claim to say that cost compensation is always achievable and always marketable. i was surprised that matthias groote has now come back to the speed limiter and compared it to heavy goods vehicles. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the speed limit is maintained. the 30-ton truck shouldn't be going 90 miles an hour on the freeway. but i'd like to see you explain to the little craftsman and the baker and the parcel deliveryman that vehicles here are being derailed at 75 miles an hour. we're patronizing the people. and that leads - as anyone who drives a car knows - to unsafe situations on the highways. so i hope that we can accept the compromise as we have it today and all the open questions that need to be resolved beyond 2020 will be resolved when the time is right. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. - thank you. i think that's all that's been said on the subject.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the ccs directive of 2009 was fortunately a failure. the funds provided were hardly called up. the present owninitiative report attempts to establish ccs by presenting it as low-risk and climate-friendly. ccs is designed to convert climate-damaging coal power into supposedly clean power, so that cheap for the energy companies, but devastating for the climate and the environment, coal power continues to fill the pockets of these energy producers. i come from germany and i know the consequences of the lignite power plant in lausitz. last week it was published that coal power is raising germany's share of co2 again. this is a perversion of responsible climate policy. this postpones and hinders the necessary conversion of energy production to renewable energy. the danger to the health and life of the people living in ccs storage facilities from the risk of leakage of ccs storage is simply ignored in this report. the dangers to the world's most important resource, drinking water, are also being suppressed. it is hard to imagine what happens when drinking water is contaminated by ccs gases pressing salty water into layers of drinking water reservoirs. we, the left in the european parliament, say no to that. typically, the report says, costs such as investment or liability are passed on to a significant part of the general public, while profits are privatized. i am opposed to that. a sustainable climate policy requires that climate-damaging gases in energy production and industry are not produced at all or are drastically reduced!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it's always easy to say no. that's the end of it. but, ladies and gentlemen, if our forefathers had always said no, we would not have reached the stage we are at today. that's why you have to evolve, and you have to face the facts. i am sure that later in the history books the early years of the 21st century will be described as a decade of upheaval and transformation in the use of energy resources. we now know that access to energy is the key to growth and prosperity. we also know that the resources available at the moment are not enough to provide growth and prosperity for all. we must urgently seek and find new ways of securing energy and of making it more efficient. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must not let up or even miss opportunities. we can't afford to do that. we need to make better and more environmentally friendly use of what we have. the main objective of european energy and climate policy must be to reconcile climate protection with competitiveness. and a few years ago, we came across a great hope with carbon capture and storage in ccs. we have ambitious targets in european climate policy. if we can really capture and store carbon on a large scale, this would be a major step towards reducing emissions, particularly for energy-intensive industries and for the fossil fuel power stations that are still needed. it should be noted that none of the european ccs pilot projects has yet gone beyond the demonstration phase, partly because not all the risks involved have been fully understood. i think it is a politically difficult signal to throw in the towel here and now and to abandon or let the project collapse altogether. we should invest in research. if we want a climate policy that is realistic and negotiable, we cannot turn every unresolved issue into a political game-changer. i would like to thank chris davies for his report and for not giving up on the great potential of new technologies. the only way to answer open questions is to have more research and demonstration projects. this requires the highest environmental and safety standards.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am not sure that the commission is prepared to accept this. the project also costs a lot of money, and these horses are both almost dead and will be ridden to the end. ccs is definitely not an alternative for energy generation, it must be clearly stated. there is no alternative! there are alternatives that are much more cost-effective, that are already working today, and that, when combined with smart grids, can do some good. ccs can be a solution in energy-intensive industries, but that we should also take money into our hands for this, where we urgently need the money elsewhere to organize climate action! the municipalities are waiting, because the co2 certificates are so in the basement, for revenue from the co2 auctions so that they can switch the street lighting from conventional lighting to led. why on earth should we take money now to invest in some vague adventure? that can't be in the inventor's best interest at all. that is why we should avoid it. we can only take each euro and invest it once. we should invest the euros where we have a guarantee that it will be brought to success. ccs is an adventure we should put our fingers down and see where the journey takes us. and the member states who are willing to take matters into their own hands can pretend to do so. then others can follow. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. very simply, dear chris davies, we need a majority in this house to reform the emissions trading system, to have a reasonable price on carbon, to then do something about this mismatch. it's very simple: fix the carbon trading system. we need a reasonable price for carbon to make efficient power plants worthwhile again. ccs is massively reducing the efficiency of coal-fired power stations. why in the world would we use this technology in a coal-fired power plant if it reduces efficiency? we have the alternatives, which are solar, wind and biomass. we can use it, we can control it, even if the wind doesn't blow in one place or another.
before i give the commissioner the floor, i would like to point out once again that you may need to slow down a little in your speaking speed. it is not always easy for interpreters, and you want your colleagues to understand what you are saying. (end of the 'catch-the-eye' procedure)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 14 january, at 12 noon.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the fight against wildlife crime by mr matthias groote, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety [2013/2747 (rsp)) ] (o-000123/2013 b7-0529/2013).
the debate was closed by the tabling of a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 15 january, at 12 noon.
the next item on the agenda is the one-minute statement on important political questions (rule 150 of the rules of procedure).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. we live in a time of tight budgets and we have increasingly tough international competition. that is why we must concentrate on the priorities. this also applies to the distribution of subsidies. specialization, focus, that's what's needed now and not just to promote with the watering can. in order to ensure that the structural funds are used even more efficiently in the future, the legislator has set 11 thematic objectives. in future, regions will have to develop innovation strategies so-called smart specialisation strategies in order to receive funding for research and innovation from cohesion policy. this is a very big opportunity for the regions, but also for the european union as a whole. the eu cannot prescribe or regulate innovation, as we sometimes like to do from here. but we can support the regions. we can help them become even more innovative. each region has its own strengths. it is important to build on these strengths and to specialise in an intelligent way. we have everything and we can do everything in the eu, but not everywhere. we just need to spread out and network. this requires an honest analysis of each region. envy of other regions is misplaced. we must now work together and cooperate. we also need improved cooperation between policy makers and all stakeholders in the region. we need a new mentality in government that leaves the innovation players plenty of room to manoeuvre. the more decision-makers listen to and contribute to what, for example, research institutions and businesses, especially the many small and medium-sized enterprises, the more successful the strategy will be. we shall also call on the commission to do its duty. the more thorough the preparation and coordination between the research and regional development departments in the european commission, the easier it will be for the regions to benefit from the funding and we will all be successful. let us work together to ensure that this new specialisation becomes an opportunity for the regions and that they do not feel that we are playing tricks on them!
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. first of all, i would like to thank all those who have contributed to this report, in particular the shadow rapporteurs. according to recent studies, in 2012, undeclared work in the eu accounted for up to 18.8% of european gdp, and in some countries even more than 30%. our national labour inspectorates have an important role to play in enforcing workers' rights, but also in promoting fair competition in the eu. they protect workers, but they also strengthen the companies that work honestly. they prevent illegal employer practices and abuses, they increase tax revenues and control wage and social security payments. unfortunately, our labour inspectorates are chronically understaffed throughout europe and there is very poor crossborder cooperation. the reality today in a european labour market is that we have many employment relationships that cross several national borders and in many cases also very long subcontracting chains. it is very difficult for purely national labour inspectorates to detect abuses. that is why we have put forward a number of demands in our report. we believe that the role of the social partners must be strengthened. we have very good examples in scandinavia too, and it is always the social partners who have revealed abuses. we need to protect particularly vulnerable groups of workers. we need much better training for our labour inspectors. we need tougher sanctions for abuse and more prevention. and we need a european platform for labour inspectors. we believe that the commission should at least consider the introduction of a pan-european electronic social security card, as well as a european early warning system between member states. we call on the commission to publish a green paper on labour inspection standards. a fair and social europe also requires the introduction of anti-social dumping rules into european competition law. the commission has long been punishing infringements of competition by companies, so why not also unreported employment? that is also a form of distortion of competition. the eu must put an end to the abuse of labour law at all levels by promoting and facilitating cooperation between member states and also between the different administrative systems. i hope that tomorrow's vote will show all the groups the wisdom to support this report, which is important for businesses and people in europe, and not to weaken it by voting separately, and then wanting to curtail the role of the social partners or not wanting to define social dumping as a distortion of competition. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
the next item is the council and commission statements on the lithuanian presidency (2013/2630 ((rsp)). i would like to congratulate the president of lithuania, dalia grybauskaitė. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer. i would like to welcome the president of the european commission, mr josé manuel barroso. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have a programme here which is a very important programme. and €188 million for seven years is already a rather modest amount. it is therefore very important that we have set out some priorities in this programme, as it is now intended, so that the funds are really spent in a meaningful and correct way. one thing is very important in this context: information! information, information and information is what we need for the citizens. because if we want to ensure that we have mature citizens, then we also have to ensure that these citizens also receive the information so that they can make their decisions in an adult manner. it is not just about prices, but also about product quality and safety. this is a second priority we must put in this context: to ensure that the quality of products is really the same throughout the european union and that we do not have - as we have seen from time to time - products of lower quality in some countries, even though they are sold under the same name. we need more transparency on this too, so that we can really make sure that it goes ahead. for this to really work, we also need strong consumer protection organisations that really help us to identify where the problems are and how to address those problems. that is why it is so important to support the networks we have at european level. we must also put a special emphasis on this, so that we can really create this europe as a europe that can be experienced positively by the people of europe. information, security, enforcement are the priorities we must set. i'm glad we can get this started.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to compliment the rapporteur on having produced a proper proposal in the circumstances. because it 's obvious: the commission's proposal to shape consumer policy from 2014 to 2020 is actually missing the red thread. it is therefore not surprising that the commission's proposal very often seeks to regulate the most effective solutions in implementing provisions. i therefore welcome the fact that the rapporteur has changed this and at least made it into a delegated act. this is very important. parliament must be closely involved in this form of financial implementation. i also believe that the rapex product safety alert system needs to be further developed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted. however, those responsible for the work must also be aware that sensitivity is required, because panic and endangering businesses would be the wrong way to go about a rapid alert system. i still think it is useful to give more financial support to consumer organisations. because this support is necessary. but it must be exercised first and foremost by the member states, because i would like to see consumer organizations acting as legal representatives of the consumer in court or in disputes. we must do more here and we must strengthen consumer organizations. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. yes, that's exactly what i meant. you heard me right.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the report is certainly not one of the great reports with a public effect, but it is extremely important. i would also like to thank the rapporteur very much for dealing with this problem. it is not just a question of money, but also a question of reason, that when research funds are spent in the european union, we should network and coordinate research performance. because if everyone does everything, nothing comes out at all. specialization and cooperation are not only more efficient, but also serve the progress of the european union. i am therefore very pleased to approve this report, which is very innovative.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have to admit that whenever the policy sets limits, it is worth looking at them and doing some calculations. because often a wish box is created and a situation arises: whoever offers more is always the better. but of course, what you decide must also be practical. the report has succeeded in this compromise between political ambition and practicality. i would like to thank the rapporteur for that. i think that of course we want to reduce co2 emissions for light commercial vehicles as well, that's undeniable, but of course it has to be renewable. but the compromise - i say it again - is viable. i also very much welcome the fact that we have introduced a new test bench for determining standard consumption. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have to confess to you that i'm very skeptical of this report, even of this technology. that is why i have been able to abstain from voting altogether. because what are we actually doing when it comes to sequestering and storing co2 in europe? the better strategy, of course, would be to avoid co2 emissions. secondly, it would be much better to use renewable resources. it's a very normal memory that nature has provided us with. i consider everything else to be extremely dangerous and difficult. in the end, it doesn't serve our efficiency approach either. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i don't think that's what you mean. our canteen service is controlled by the mps who check the product. but as for the esther de lange report, it is a very good report and it has also made concrete proposals which can be translated into law. for example, we are now dealing with the control regulation. the penalties are based on economic profit. that is what esther de lange has called for in her report. it is very important that we do this. but i also have a small criticism to make of this report. because when it comes to food scandals and we talk about labelling, i don't know why you make labelling fraud-free. this is bullshit! it can be cheated anywhere. so i think it's wrong to put it this way. i also think that the increase in police control is wrong. it is important that the control areas are better represented in court, that they have better judicial and prosecutorial representation to take action against companies that have cheated.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is a very important report. because the point is that we're also making food safer and, of course, fighting fraud quite simply. however, i would like to warn you against an illusion: if anyone thinks that simply improved origin labelling will make fraud void or lead to absurdity, he is simply mistaken. because you might say, what's the use of knowing where the horse meat comes from if the manufacturer doesn't even mention that it's in there? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. three things are important to me: first of all, we must carry out more checks, as the report also states. we must also impose more penalties when fraud occurs, and this too is noted. but above all we need more self-responsibility, more self-control in the chain of commerce. the proof of origin alone is not enough here.
in writing. - yes, it is important that we deal with food fraud, and i strongly welcome the call for high, harmonised penalties for food fraudsters. i cannot support the call for universal, compulsory origin labelling. that is why i voted against this resolution. no origin labelling system in the world could have prevented the fraudulent misdeclaration of horse meat. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information provided by the member states is not used in the same way as the information provided by the member states. extensive indication of origin is technically difficult to implement and very expensive. we therefore asked the commission to examine first whether and how the use of origin labels for fresh meat and meat products could be implemented. apparently , you 're right . for example, according to the impact assessment for fresh meat, a three-stage origin labelling (place of birth, farming and slaughter) increased the price of pork by up to 55%. this increase in costs would be borne by the consumer. the impact assessment on meat in processed products also shows how difficult it is to implement such an indication of origin. although all the groups agreed at the time to the upstream impact assessment, the red-red-green alliance in this house is now ignoring the results and is calling for mandatory origin labelling which goes far beyond what is feasible. this is irresponsible, damaging to smes and forcing consumers to pay huge price increases without any added benefit. i cannot support this ideologically driven arbitrariness.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the committee on trade has of course followed the legislation very closely, because the question of public procurement is of central importance for international trade, because we naturally also want to enter the public procurement market in third countries, as we are discussing in the negotiations with the united states. but if we want this - which will of course also have positive effects for businesses in the eu - then we also need clear rules for procurement here at home, which we will then establish in reciprocity with other countries outside the eu. this includes a clear definition of what constitutes a breach of fair procurement practices. this includes in all cases the non-compliance with environmental and social standards as a clear exclusion criterion for offers. and this criterion must also apply to subcontracting. in the international context, ladies and gentlemen, we often have subcontractors outside the eu, and these subcontractors must also be obliged to comply with environmental and social standards.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on employment and social affairs. - mr president, i have to say something. as the socialist rapporteur on the general directive in the committee on employment, i am not entirely satisfied with the result so far. we have nevertheless been able to strengthen some of the social aspects. we have clearly emphasised that the lowest bid cannot be a tendering criterion in itself. instead, the most economically viable option also allows for social and environmental considerations - an important step towards greater sustainability, including in the use of taxpayers' money. binding labour and social standards must be recognised in the performance of all public contracts. this includes the respect of collective agreements. this was a great success in the negotiations with the council. those who do not comply with these standards can only be excluded from the procedure. i would have liked to have seen a lot more of this in the case of subcontracting, because it is precisely here, in the case of chain contracts with subcontractors, that there is a great potential for unethical employment relations. however, the new directives provide for improved transparency and clear rules for the protection and respect of social and labour standards. we are also referring to existing systems of general contractor liability. of course, member states can go further; i'm curious to see if that happens. in the case of particularly low offers, public authorities must verify that basic labour and social standards are actually being respected. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. that would also be against the interests of the citizens. the public procurement sector accounts for 18% of gdp. this is therefore an important area in which to advance societal objectives. the new directives have created an improved framework for sustainability, high-quality and social services and respect for good working conditions. this is an important signal for the overall conditions of our labour markets!
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the negotiations on the reform of european public procurement law have not always been easy. i am all the more pleased with the result and, as rapporteur for the alde group, have recommended that my group vote for the package tomorrow. this will make public procurement more modern, simple and transparent. the complex eu-wide procedures are becoming less bureaucratic and more business-friendly. the european single market will be much closer together to the benefit of taxpayers, businesses and workers. in the new shifts in inhouse procurement and inter-municipal cooperation, we have managed the difficult balancing act of preserving established municipal structures while limiting distortions of competition. the reform was never aimed at the alleged 'forced privatisation' of services such as water supply or emergency services. the amendments made by parliament in the trilogue have brought clarity to this.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. - mr president, i have to say something. i report on the opinion of the itre committee on the concession directive. the concession directive was a difficult birth. the commissioner responsible for the internal market, mr monti, had already made an attempt in the 1990s, which failed. so it's a credit to us that we have a result today. it took us a long time to do this. itre's opinion is now 14 months old. some of the demands are taken into account, others are not after the trilogue. i would like to thank mr juvin in particular, even though two of our main demands were not taken into account. the first is the consequence of the altmark judgment that private participation up to a maximum of 10% may not affect the exemption. it's not been taken over. and the second is the question of water supply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. but unfortunately commissioner barnier has ruled out this proposal. we must therefore continue to rely on the judgments of the european court of justice in the water supply sector. this was a pyrrhic victory from the point of view of the itre committee.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on transport and tourism. - mr president, i have to say something. my group has been in favour of rejecting the directive altogether from the outset, because existing eu law provides sufficient transparency, freedom from discrimination and legal certainty. the commission has failed to check the proportionality of its proposal, for example, the consequences of its interference with local self-government law. in particular, we are concerned, as are the trade unions, about the negative impact on the provision of social services and on the protection and development of social security. as the author of an opinion in the committee on transport, i therefore advocated the rejection of the draft directive. we need a strategy for defence and for the expansion of public services, not blind market opening. the commission's proposals for the future of the european union are based on the principle of subsidiarity. the price is ultimately paid by the workers through job cuts and wage pressure, by the citizens through exploding prices for essential services and by the municipalities through the loss of control over important parts of public tasks. we are clear: there can be no social, peaceful and democratic eu on the basis of the lisbon treaty, which places competition policy in the eu's internal market at the centre of eu policy.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on regional development. - mr president, i have to say something. i have been given the whole speaking time, so i can speak for both reports. thank you for that. first of all, i want to thank you for the good cooperation. we have achieved a result that we can be proud of. it is true that, as is always the case with compromises, we have not achieved everything we wanted to achieve. for example, i would have liked to see a more substantial reduction in the burden on small donors. however, it must be made clear once again that there is now a wide variety of variable procurement procedures available to contracting authorities, that they have better opportunities to test the market before the award, that they can make easier adjustments during the award period, modifications during the term. i hope that electronic procurement will simplify matters considerably and thus also offer many more opportunities for small contracting authorities, but also for small and mediumsized enterprises. the irish presidency is not present today. i should have liked to thank her again, because in close and good cooperation with her we have succeeded in making public-public cooperation more independent of the award of contracts. the commission's requirements were too restrictive, and we succeeded in negotiating more scope for public-public cooperation. i think it is important, in an era of high public debt, of major demographic problems and of an ageing society, that we create more opportunities for communities to provide the services of public services together. that's what we've achieved with this. what's the package in detail? firstly, we have strengthened sustainable procurement in the sense of socially, environmentally and ethically responsible procurement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this has repeatedly led to misunderstandings in the member states and to statements that european law would require the contract to be awarded at the lowest price. here we have succeeded in clarifying and making clear that the contract should be awarded on the basis of the best economic offer, that price can be considered in addition to quality, but that the price should include the life cycle costs of the products, from research and development to production, transport, use, maintenance and repair costs and disposal - all of which can be included in the award criteria. and so the granting agencies really have a lot of leeway. i think that is a very important result. equally important to me is that fair trade award has been strengthened. the new legislation expressly allows for the first time to rely on quality seals or labels in procurement. although providers who are demonstrably not able to access these quality labels must also be approved, the burden of proof clearly lies with the provider. and that, i think, is a real push towards fair trade awarding, because it really becomes clear that it makes sense to get certified and to take the labels accordingly. this undermines many of the arguments that have been made against fair trade procurement. the revised directives also explicitly allow the imposition of a specific production method, not only in relation to ecological criteria, as was the case previously, but also in relation to social and fair trade criteria. for example, the prohibition of child labour may in future be included in the relevant award criteria. i think that is a very important measure. however, measures to protect health at work may also be included in the award criteria, provided they are related to the subject-matter of the contract. we have also achieved better integration of disabled and disadvantaged people. it is possible to reserve contracts for protected workshops. in addition, i consider this to be important, as the new directives require compliance with environmental, social and labour rights applicable at the place where services are performed or provided, including those arising from collective agreements, provided they are in line with union law. last but not least, we are finally making it easier for small and mediumsized enterprises. examples are: the european procurement passport is not yet as wide as we would have liked, but the european single procurement document will bring some relief, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. we now expect the member states to implement these directives swiftly and to maintain the flexibility we have created in their implementation and not to create additional bureaucratic obstacles. i also expect the commission - and this is not the case with commissioner barnier, but with the commission as a whole - to respect the compromises reached and not to call them into question in international trade agreements, for example. the exclusion of water sector or rescue and disaster services from the tender must not be called into question again by international agreements. the high standards we are achieving in sustainable and innovative procurement must be maintained!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. after we liberals had rejected the tarabella report in committee, we were finally able to make a decisive improvement to the text in the trilogue. our greatest success is that we have made a decisive improvement in the situation of small and mediumsized enterprises. the alde group was the only group which consistently advocated the division of large contracts into small units. this will give smaller companies a greater chance of applying for public contracts. in addition, smes with relatively low turnover will benefit from a significant reduction in the minimum annual turnover required to participate in tenders. the commission has also decided to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union. self-declarations are sufficient at the beginning of the procedure. the authorities may not require evidence which they can obtain from other sources. we have also reached the conclusion that the cooperation of municipalities, which is widespread in germany, for example in road cleaning, will continue to be possible without a call for tenders. at the same time, we have created new rules to prevent public companies from having to compete unfairly with private companies. as mentioned at the outset, it has been made clear once and for all that the concession directive will in no way lead to the forced privatisation of water supply. unfortunately, there has been a lot of misleading panic-mongering in the public debate on this, particularly in germany. this means that in future, without a europe-wide tender, the municipal utilities will be able to supply their own communities with water and to supply other communities. we have also managed to exclude emergency rescue services from the award guidelines, provided they are provided by non-profit organizations such as the red cross. this will ensure that the proven voluntary structures in germany can continue to exist. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the award of public contracts are respected. however, they are subject to the much more flexible rules for 'social services'. in future, municipalities will be able to support charitable organisations in carrying out transport operations for the sick. i would like to refer again to what mrs rühle has said in great detail. it is a very broad range of measures that have been taken, taking into account social aspects, taking into account that wage dumping can no longer be a criterion for participation in public procurement. it has also been achieved that - as we have known for years in germany - not the lowest bidder, but the lowest bidder receives the offer. this is very important because we find time and again - also in the municipal public procurement - that the cheapest does not always deliver the best product, the best service and then corrections have to be made afterwards and what was badly done before has to be corrected. that's why we can agree to this whole package tomorrow!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the new european public procurement law comes into force ten years after the old one. that's not a long time for a piece of legislation of this magnitude. i therefore hope that the adaptation processes in the member states will be used to simplify procurement procedures where possible - and this will be possible with the new law - and also to relieve small and medium-sized enterprises of bureaucratic requirements where possible. the real value of the revision is that we can now offer procurement law from a single source and that many borderline issues can be answered in a uniform way by the unified nature of concessions and public procurement. this is an advantage for the municipalities and public authorities concerned, but also for the companies concerned. but, ladies and gentlemen - and much has been said in the debate - all this will of course only work if the member states which are now required to implement the public procurement directives do so in a way which is really close to these objectives. we must urge the european commission and the commissioner responsible, michel barnier, to really review the implementation process in the member states, but also the application process once the new law has been introduced, so that the objectives formulated here in common can be implemented. we can already see conflicts of interest in a number of places. each person interprets into the new law what is particularly important to him politically. it is clear that environmental protection requirements were already possible under the old public procurement law, if they were implemented in accordance with european law. it is clear that the old law could have prevented social dumping if it had been properly implemented. the new law will only change this marginally. but in the end, what will matter most is whether the member states implement the new public procurement law in the way we intend. we should all be looking at this together, commissioner barnier.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. let me make a preliminary remark: i have had the experience here in the european parliament that if you want to get something done, even if you are in a minority, you can do it. but there are two basic conditions. first, you have to want to work and work a lot, and that's obviously not for everyone. and you have to be present at the discussions, otherwise you cannot take these concerns into account. that is the way it is in a parliament! we have done a very hard job with these three dossiers. and i would like to thank marc tarabella and philippe juvin for the extraordinary work they have done. i would also like to thank mr panzeri, who has done an extremely good job for our group in the area of concession law. we can be proud of what we have achieved as a parliament because we have made some improvements to the european commission's text. the simplification of the law - e.g. electronic procurement - is one of the outstanding achievements, and it is particularly important for me as a social democrat that social and environmental criteria are put in the foreground and that it is not simply the price that is decisive, but that the quality of both the products and services and the work done must also be taken into account when awarding and spending the taxpayers' money. it is very important - not only for the general contractors who receive the contract, but also for the subcontractors - that a liability has been built in. this is a very important achievement and an improvement on the existing european legislation. let me now turn to the concession directive and thank commissioner barnier for having succeeded in ensuring that, at the end of the debate, water supply was removed from the scope of the directive, thus also meeting a great desire of more than 1.8 million citizens of the european union who had an important concern to join a citizens' initiative and to make it clear: this is a will that is very strong in our population. i think that's the right way to do it. we should continue to make sure that progress can be made in the future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the revision of the law on public procurement and the creation of secondary legislation in the field of service concessions should have a major objective: to create more transparency, more clarity and, above all, simplification, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises and small public procurement bodies such as small and medium-sized towns and municipalities. it should also create more legal certainty. this has been achieved in many areas, but it must also be said quite clearly that in some areas it has not been possible because the public procurement system still requires a great deal of bureaucratic effort, especially for small and mediumsized municipalities. one issue of particular importance was the issue of service concessions, namely the exclusion of the water sector as a sector to be considered in a special way. water is the basis of life for us humans, but not only for us humans. it's not a service like any other i buy, but it's a very special one. it was therefore right and important to take account of the principle of subsidiarity, which is always a major consideration in everything we do here. it is in this area that the principle of subsidiarity, the freedom of decision of local authorities, must be organized so that the provision of water supplies to the people is guaranteed to be of adequate quality and sufficient safety. this is a very important element. i hope, therefore, that your revision clause, which has been put back on paper, will not lead to us having the same debate here in three years' time, but that the commission has also come to realise that this is a special asset.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we in parliament have agreed on the procurement package and we know our positions and arguments. so i want to focus on three prejudices that are brought to us from outside - from the media, from business and from others. the first is bureaucracy. we are starting with new social criteria: compliance with the wage rates, ilo standards, prohibition of child labour, regulation of subcontracting, anti-corruption regulations, etc. is that bureaucratic? yeah, that could be. in individual cases it may be, but it is politically desirable to regulate our labour markets and europe. secondly, the privatization of water. we social democrats are fundamentally against the privatization of public services. i would like to stress that the decision is up to the local authorities. and so, unfortunately, it's not out of the question that tomorrow my neighborhood will privatize the water supply. i'd regret it, but it's not out of the question. and the last point: lowest price bias. we discussed this. the price doesn't have to be the lowest. sustainable investment is important, and so this is also a prejudice that we hope we have dispelled.
in writing. the public procurement and service concession directives have created a lot of buzz about water and the fear of water privatisation. it is right and important that this has now been excluded. with regard to emergency services, the special structure of the combination of emergency rescue, qualified medical transport, disaster protection and social provision by hospitals must be taken into account. it is therefore good that rescue services as such are excluded. it would have been good if the transport of sick people had also been excluded. the fact that they are social services with simplified procurement procedures is nevertheless a good way, a real signal to citizens and municipalities. in the context of subsidiarity, freedom of design and responsibility for the provision of services must remain in the hands of the local authorities.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are discussing today a proposal for a regulation from the european commission which aims to encourage foreign states to open their public procurement markets to suppliers from the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so we want gun equality. we are not against protectionism. the proposed regulation does not therefore apply to all the countries which are members of this gpa, with which we have no special arrangements. it does not apply to all those with whom we have bilateral agreements or are negotiating bilateral agreements, it does not apply to the least developed countries, and we have been guided by the rules of the generalised system of preferences. trade policy has been the exclusive competence of the european union since the treaty of lisbon at the latest. that is why we make it clear in article 1 that we want this to be an exclusive competence and no longer want the member states to make their own regulations in this area. i have the impression that some of the arguments put forward in the last few weeks are merely premature. in reality, many are concerned with the question of competence. many are still questioning the fact that the european union, and not the member states, has exclusive competence for trade policy. that's why rejection isn't an option. i have the impression that the european commission wants to, but i think that the european commission must also check to what extent many existing national laws actually violate european law. the main proposed amendments to the compromise proposal which will be put to the vote tomorrow are: in article 1 we return to the subject of "exclusive" competence. i just answered it. in article 2 we want to add additional definitions to improve the application and to avoid misunderstandings. in articles 6 and 8 we propose a better link between these two articles. i am firmly convinced that what the committee has proposed in its majority is much more stringent, it is even a better safeguard against protectionism. the municipalities now have the possibility, alongside the commission, the member states and the industry concerned, to apply for the opening of such a review procedure under article 8. so we are meeting the local authorities in my view. we propose to speed up the procedure considerably. we are reducing the possibility of exceptions in article 13 in order to really achieve that we can create a european leverage effect. in article 19 we propose a review clause. it is also a chance for many who are opposed to this draft regulation to take a leap of faith and perhaps vote in favour. in conclusion, there are still a number of colleagues who are completely opposed to this proposal, which i can understand on the basis of the commission's original proposal. but in all the advisory committees there was a large majority in favour of the instrument. i think we have found a good compromise in the committee discussions which will be put to the vote tomorrow. i am glad to hear that many people have already told me that they want to vote tomorrow for the rejection of the commission's proposal, but that if the rejection does not happen, they can accept the compromise package found in the committee. i would therefore like to thank my personal staff, the secretariat, the commission, the political groups and all those who have worked with me in the past weeks. i look forward to the debate today, which will certainly bring some new insights.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already done so. the compromise now on the table is indeed a balanced compromise which ensures that procurement markets are run on fair terms, and that is crucial! we have just had the debate on the rules of the procurement market within the european union and ensured that we have clear points of view on what is a fair offer and what is not. we must of course do the same with regard to offers from third countries. i would like, for example, to see ecological products and services from europe, which can make the world a better place in the long term, offered and accepted in third countries. we must therefore set clear rules here. we also need european rules because we cannot have a patchwork of european union rules where national states have very different assessments, even to the point of having different assessments of local authorities in the individual member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals. in view of this, it is legitimate to assess whether to exclude certain offers or to initiate an investigation for exclusion. i believe that in the compromise we have struck a good balance between the rights of the individual contracting authorities and the commission, in order to ensure a balance of power within the european union. i am therefore in favour of this compromise. it was important for us social democrats to clarify again exactly in what respects we find a lack of reciprocity. this is not just about transparency or dumping, of course, but also about respect for social and environmental standards and, of course, core labour standards. this is precisely what we have just said on the question of procurement within the european union. in this respect, this must also be used as a criterion for assessing lack of reciprocity. the fact that we have excluded the l, c and gsp countries does not justify the criticism of this instrument by the development policy side. no, it is first and foremost an instrument to ensure that fair rules are established between more developed countries. i think it is more than right and fair to ask for this from the european side. i also appeal to the council to be as willing to compromise here as we were in the european parliament, so that we can implement such legislation as quickly as possible!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. mr. caspary, you have a thankless job reporting on this case. they had to invest a lot of energy in improving a bill that nobody really needs. two thirds of the contracting authorities surveyed by the commission were in favour of maintaining the status quo. what does mr stoiber say about this proposal? he was supposed to find and remove unnecessary regulations and laws. and now we have another text that makes life more difficult for local decision-makers. the commissioner has already said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy. but this is a very untimely text. the wrong austerity policies are breaking up the public procurement market in many member states. portuguese companies must instead hope to obtain contracts in brazil or china or other countries. and in such a situation, your proposal provokes partner countries to respond with similar legislation and makes their market more difficult for european companies. my group therefore calls, together with many members from other groups - and this has already been raised in this debate - for this example of unnecessary and undesirable legislation to be rejected!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. with this initiative, we are entering new territory despite wto agreements on gpa. that's why it's all the more important that we proceed with care. as members of the committee on the internal market, two points were particularly important to us. the first has already been mentioned by mr lange: this initiative must be consistent with the procurement packages we have discussed this afternoon, and therefore include social and environmental criteria. and it was particularly important to us to get a handle on the problems of the very low bids and to find appropriate solutions and also to include corporate social responsibility. i personally think it is important that they are comparable developed countries and not developing countries. it is tempting, of course, to include countries with double-digit growth rates. but that is not the point of the initiative, but fair market access for all involved. i wish above all that the colleagues in the next legislature, who will be closing this dossier, will have time for serious deliberation and a wise decision.
member of the commission. − madam president, generally speaking, i believe there is broad support among a number of political groups for what we have proposed, and also for the line that has been taken by the rapporteur. i welcome most of the amendments that he has proposed and which were voted for in the committee on international trade. we all know where the problem lies, namely with the council. it seems clear at this stage that we are not going to have a quick solution there. i will come back to that in a moment. let me first give an answer to a couple of remarks that have been made. eerst en vooral wat mevrouw sargentini heeft gezegd, namelijk het probleem met ontwikkelingssamenwerking. ik denk eerlijk gezegd dat dit niet juist is, in die zin dat het instrument zich niet richt tot de least developed countries, of de landen die gsp genieten. het probleem doet zich enkel voor als gsp-landen niet langer in het systeem zitten. dus de tegenstelling tussen ontwikkelingssamenwerking en opening van openbare aanbestedingsmarkten is er naar mijn bescheiden mening niet. je leert ook altijd iets in zo'n debat. you always learn something in such a debate. for example, i learnt from ms mcclarkin that the chinese market for public procurement is more open than the european one. you always learn something. en dan mevrouw oomen-ruijten, die een aantal vragen heeft gesteld. ja, ik begrijp de bezorgdheid. maar ik denk ook dat we daaraan tegemoet gekomen zijn, want het instrument is alleen van toepassing wanneer een meerderheid, meer dan 50 procent van de diensten en de goederen die in het bod vervat zitten, niet gedekt is door de openheid van de markt. met andere woorden pas als meer dan de helft van de diensten of de goederen komt van een land of van landen waartoe het instrument zich richt, dan kan er op europees niveau opgetreden worden. maar alleen dan. de administratieve complicatie van de toegevoegde waarde is een andere aangelegenheid. dat zal werk geven. ik twijfel daar niet aan, dat dat inderdaad, als we dat serieus willen doen, enige workload zal geven. maar ik denk ook dat het onze internationale standing ten goede zal komen. dan de decentralisatie van het buitenlands beleid. ik denk dat het instrument er juist op gericht is dat dit níet zou gebeuren, dat met andere woorden de locale overheden wel voorstellen kunnen formuleren, maar dat het uiteindelijk de europese commissie is die op basis van de criteria beslist. dat lijkt mij een essentieel element in dit debat. wat we juist niet willen, is dat er een heleboel verschillende benaderingen komen in de lidstaten. als we, collega's, niet optreden in dit dossier, dan is het juist dát wat in de komende jaren staat te gebeuren. u zult zien dat dan een aantal landen optreden volgens criteria die ze voor zichzelf uitmaken, en dat daaruit juist problemen zullen voortvloeien voor de interne markt. de bedoeling is juist op een gedecentraliseerde manier ertoe te komen dat er één, zeg maar jurisprudentie, één rechtspraak ontstaat met betrekking tot dit dossier. to sum up, i am most grateful for the approach that parliament has been taking to this file, and i hope that we can have, as soon as possible, discussions with the council on this very important topic. i also hope that, now that parliament and the commission have teamed up on this and have made very clear that we want something to happen, this will influence the decision taken in the council.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. thank you for the controversial debate. i think it has become clear what the problem has been over the last year and a half: finding a compromise between these extremely different opinions. i'm very grateful to all my colleagues and all my staff for this. i would like to make three points very briefly. firstly, the ecr spokeswoman said that this regulation was protectionist. i have the impression, particularly in the united kingdom, that sometimes when i look at the existing legislation on this subject in the united kingdom, that perhaps in the united kingdom, which has its own national regulations to exclude foreign suppliers from the market, the issue of protectionism is high on the agenda and there may be a misunderstanding. secondly, i think that commissioner de gucht has thankfully taken up the subject of the developing countries once again. i think we have really improved the commission proposal on this too. and thirdly, commissioner de gucht has also raised this, but i would also like to emphasize it explicitly once again: we have substantially changed the commission proposal by amending article 6. the commission is the only body that can decide whether a foreign supplier should be excluded, and it is no longer the local authorities. i believe that this contributes to a better rigor and also to greater leverage. i am very grateful that we can vote tomorrow. we have agreed with the shadow rapporteurs of the other groups that we will vote on the amendments, but then ask for the final vote to be postponed. this will ensure that the plenary can deliver its opinion, but we will also give the council the chance to reach an agreement at first reading. i really call on the council and the member states to put an end to the silence and to enter into negotiations with us quickly.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i'm a farmer by trade. i mean, in the work that i did before my term, i dealt with basic biological laws all day, every day. it's just a biological fact that pollen is a component of honey, not an ingredient. because if we start now, putting these little meticulous legal quibbles over biological facts, then the next thing we're going to be taking apart is the egg. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis, and that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis. a bee doesn't make decisions based on paragraphs, a bee is just following a natural biological behavior. and that's exactly what my cows do with milk production. we don't even start to argue and say, the milk has to be broken down now into its ingredients, fat, protein, lactose, vitamin, water content. these are ingredients, these are not ingredients! it's just a biological thing. we therefore support mrs girling in confirming this in this commission proposal. it doesn't make sense to try to make laws about biology here. natural laws are something that cannot be changed by legal tricks. and it will not create any uncertainty for consumers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's food safety is not compromised by the introduction of a 0.9% threshold for gmos in all foodstuffs. but if we really want to do something, then we should say in the future: be fair and then label everything that comes into contact with gmos anywhere as gmos. that would mean that all yogurts would be labeled, all fruit juices would be labeled, because vitamin c is now almost impossible to produce without genetic engineering, and we have too few bacteria to produce yogurt. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i'm not influenced by lobbyists, i'm influenced by my own opinion. you yourself have just said it: ingredient, not ingredient! the milk bag does not indicate the amount of fat added as an ingredient, but the fat content of the milk after processing. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the milk is not used in the same way as the milk produced by the dairy industry. it's a natural label, because it's a processed product, not a raw product, like you'd find in my home, in my milk tank.
i have to say, madam president, it is quite clear that pollen is a natural part of honey. that is what many colleagues have said, and that alone is correct. it's not an ingredient because the pollen wasn't added intentionally, and it's defined as an ingredient in the food law. we are dealing with a food law issue here. it is not the genetic engineering legislation we are discussing here with the revision of the honey directive. we must ensure that the citizens of the european union continue to have enough honey with this revision. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the effects of the new measures. that is high-minded nonsense, and it is dangerous nonsense. you are speaking ill of this excellent product, honey. and you're talking to yourself as a beekeeper, if you are one. i know some of you here are beekeepers, too. bad. do we want to? if pollen were an ingredient, honey would no longer be a natural product, and beekeepers would no longer be allowed to advertise it as such. do we want to? and is not pollen a characteristic of honey? but if pollen is an ingredient, then i can add pollen to whatever i want, and i can't really say, basically, this is pine honey because the bees have been nesting in the pine, or this is linden flower honey. that's not possible, because pollen as an ingredient can be added to anything according to the definition of an ingredient. i don't think we want that to happen. we must ensure that the current practice in all member states, which is that pollen is a natural part of honey, is allowed to continue. a change in this practice would be counterproductive for the beekeepers: very high laboratory costs. and yes, there should be nutrition labels on the products. there would be no exception to the nutrition labelling under the food information regulation. and indeed, if what the beekeepers are writing to us in their lobby emails were to get through, honey would become a luxury in the european union, because we cannot meet the demand we have ourselves. in any case, we cannot produce the 40% we import from third countries ourselves so quickly. so please, follow the european commission and the rapporteur of the parliament, julie girling. thank you, julie.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. on the other hand, the members who want to have pollen defined as an ingredient want to exempt honey from the mandatory labelling under the food information regulation, so again, the consumer is not being informed. what is the right transparency for you?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. anyone who follows this discussion will be a little startled. i think that our good honey has not really deserved this, the way we are dealing with this issue today, which is also a bit of a phantom discussion: what if? i would also like to point out the value of honey as a natural product. the emotional waves of honey - we've seen this before - always strike this house particularly hard. honey is always special. but it is clear that honey is an important and healthy natural product and also a food. honey plays a very important role in our diet, both as a pure product and as an ingredient in other foods. honey is also an important cultural asset and a factor in our cultural landscape. beekeepers are responsible for maintaining bee colonies, and without bees, there would ultimately be no plants. essential foods would be missing from the food supply. but honey is above all a natural product - it has been said many times, but i would like to say it again - and you cannot break it down into its individual parts. honey is harvested the way the bees bring it. at least that's how it's always been with us, in our very small bee farm. so the question is, as jolanta hibner has already asked, is there honey without pollen? because only then could pollen be an ingredient. would it be better honey that is not directly related to plants? but we do know that honey always contains pollen. therefore, the pollen carried by the bees cannot be classified as an intentionally added ingredient. it's a natural part of honey. however, commissioner, when weighing pollen against honey, we must also take the total weight of the honey. that is not quite clear in this proposal. i support the commission's proposal. we should follow mrs girling's report in the vote in plenary tomorrow.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. if i look at the debate here - if it were not so serious and we were voting on an important issue tomorrow - i would put all these debates in the realm of satire. how the laws of nature are being reversed by genetic hysteria in this house, how the rules on genetic engineering that we ourselves have decided in this house are being ignored, how they are being ignored for reasons that i simply cannot understand! are we looking around the world so blindly? do we not see what nature is, what it produces? and that is why it cannot be taken seriously to declare pollen as an ingredient under the heading 'genetic engineering'. these are things! we're trying to change the world, change the laws of nature. it can't be like this! let's get some sense back into this. pollen is part of it. and if it were an ingredient, then you would have to calculate the pollen content in the honey. i did the math. cost of each analysis: eur 150 to 200. the nutritional value would have to be determined for the declaration. the cost of the analysis: eur 100. did we even register that? we can't deal with the beekeepers like this! we can't just put the laws of nature on the table like that! we have rules about genetic engineering. we have defined the labelling clearly and unambiguously. and now we pretend that it doesn't exist, and we mix nature with laws we've decided here, and turn everything around. it can't work like that! i am glad that this discussion is taking place tonight. i hope that not so many people are following this discussion, because the citizens would not understand. i think that the commission has a duty to do more than just to give the necessary information. do you want to shut down the market, or are you just being fueled by misinformation? i shall try to clarify this question in the next few minutes.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, let me first thank you and in particular ms macovei, as the rapporteur on this file, for the excellent work and cooperation on the new hercule programme. together we have achieved major improvements compared to hercule ii. let me just mention two of them. firstly, the support for grants is increased substantially. hercule iii now allows for grants to cover up to 80 % of the costs of an action undertaken by a national or regional administration. it allows potential beneficiaries to submit an application even in cases where there can be only little national funding. this is particularly important in a situation where the national budgets of a number of member states are very tight due to the financial and economic crisis. secondly, the reporting on the implementation of the programme will be improved. the annual report to the european parliament and to the council will include an assessment of the achievement of the programme’s objectives. in order to enhance the programme’s transparency, the commission will clearly set out to the european taxpayer how the programme contributes to protecting his or her money. furthermore, the commission commits itself to presenting the hercule annual work programme to the european parliament and to discussing its implementation in a structured dialogue every year. the hercule programme is an important element in our fight against fraud. more than eur 70 million will be made available to support member states’ administrations in strengthening their operational capacity to fight fraud, corruption and other illegal activities. one important area will continue to be the fight against cigarette smuggling. this includes the financing of x-ray scanners used in harbours and airports and the purchase and training of sniffer dogs. hercule iii will furthermore support training activities. for example, it will facilitate exchanges of best practices through support for dedicated international transparency seminars and promote measures to prevent conflicts of interest and corruption in procurement procedures. these activities are indispensable in order to make member state authorities fit for the fight against fraud and corruption in the interests of all eu taxpayers. the hercule iii programme provides the eu with the necessary means and tools to enable these essential activities to be further implemented over the next seven years.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new system of taxation of capital. i congratulate you on the completion of the project. i know how relieved you can be when it's done. we are dealing here with a romanian-bulgarian co-production. the amendments were still being made under our colleague iliana ivanova, who is now in the court of auditors and who is very pleased with us that it is now finished. i would also like to thank the commission for that. hercule iii is a success for all those who want to earn and earn eu revenue, who want to improve this situation. the own resources are the stepchild of the eu, and a bit of the stepchild of the commission, commissioner, because we have the commission's oldest reservations on own resources. they go back to 1995. we shall have the opportunity to discuss this with you again next week. we'll be happy to do that because we think revenue is important. revenue is even more important than expenditure. we learned from hercules ii before hercules iii. we've identified a number of information gaps in hercules ii. i screwed up my own budget with reserves and froze money. it was very difficult to find out what really happened to the money from hercule ii. we are still particularly interested in how long the equipment we buy with a lot of money under the hercule programmes actually lasts. we've only known about the programs we bought in hercule ii for six months, how the devices work and that they exist. beyond six months, we don't know anything. it is therefore very important, commissioner, that you really tell us that these scanners are being maintained and used after these six months, precisely because they were so expensive. that would be a very big request. the new instrumentation in hercules iii is already giving us the means to do so. the committee on budgetary control has been to the eastern borders and to the southern borders. we've been looking at the border facilities. i believe that we will do this in the coming years with even greater intensity. i would like to thank you very much for the closure of this important dossier.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs macovei. we do not often agree, but you have the full support of the social democrats in your reporting on the hercule iii programme. ladies and gentlemen, the german tobacco industry regularly carries out a market research project. this is one of the reasons why, for example, in berlin, every fourth cigarette is now a cheap white, a cigarette that cannot be legally purchased in germany. this shows the extent to which cigarette smuggling has become organized. more than that, it meets the criteria of organized crime. because you don't just need a huge distribution network for illegal cigarettes. no, the cash has to be collected somehow and fed back into the economy. this requires ok structures. at the same time, the benefits are similar to those of the drug, but the risks are much lower. smuggling of cigarettes is a loss to the eu budget due to missed customs duties and a loss to national budgets due to missed taxes. these losses amount to eur 10 billion per year, of which eur 1 billion is lost to the eu budget. ladies and gentlemen, this is often close to the sum we have to argue with the council about when drawing up the annual eu budget. that just goes to show how important this issue is. the protection of the eu's financial interests is a task for which the member states must contribute. but we must recognize that some countries have a comparatively greater responsibility than others. it is therefore right that the eu should help to protect the borders and to combat smuggling. it is also right that the work programme should be open to this, because we must be able to react flexibly to - as the rapporteur has said - the reactions of smugglers who are looking for other ways. then we must find other ways to fight it. the social democrats welcome the hercule iii programme, which is a very important one.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am very pleased that today we can really say that we have succeeded in passing this law on the digital tachograph in the first reading. first of all, i should like to thank silvia ţicău, who has really put her foot down. she was a very good reporter. the cooperation was fun and successful. what's with the digital tachograph? we've heard different things. it's a technical innovation. actually, the law is an adjustment now. the analogue tachograph was there before, there were regulations. now we have the next generation digital tachograph. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. we also asked whether it was practical and feasible for companies and drivers, and therefore we decided not to integrate the driver's card and the driving licence together. it was the kind of thing you see everywhere: this is a very practical law, although it sounds extremely technical, but it really does make a lot of difference to the operation. we need speed recorders to monitor the driving and resting times of professional drivers. it is absolutely necessary. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data is not used in the wrong way. it's supposed to make it easier to check things. that is what the commissioner said. but one thing that was particularly important to me was that we were able to reduce bureaucracy at the same time. it was already during the stoiber commission that a proposal from the central association of german crafts won first prize in brussels, and it stated that the tachographs are actually good and correct to increase road safety for professional drivers, but that the self-employed craftsmen who drive their own vehicle to set up a construction site do not actually have to pay or keep regular books if they are not professional drivers. i thought it was perfectly right. in fact, it was even proposed in the member states to exempt craftsmen within a 150 km radius from this. it has now come to have a 100 km radius and basically to take out all non-professional drivers in all member states. i think that's a very good achievement. it has not been applied at 2.8 tonnes, but at a higher value, at 7.5 tonnes. it is very good, because we want to strengthen our businesses, we want to strengthen small and mediumsized enterprises, including selfemployed people, who are not necessarily professional drivers. at the same time, of course, we want to have road safety. i think it is an excellent compromise that we have achieved there. thank you all.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. intelligent digital tachographs are a good thing, since they are used to monitor compliance with regulations on driving and resting times for professional drivers, not for their own sake, but to ensure fair competition between transport companies and to contribute to a high level of road safety. mrs ţicău, thank you for your great commitment! however, technical simplification through remote consultation, uniform control practices, high data protection and red tape reduction, as envisaged by this amendment to the current regulation, should be used to simplify and clarify rules. unfortunately, the compromise reached with the council falls short of what is needed. bus drivers and truck drivers are not the same! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the use of the road are not changed. it also avoids the secondary sleep of postal workers, without the need for digital tachographs. and when our craftsmen drive their cars to a construction site over 100 kilometers away, they don't need this equipment. but if they're driving their company truck to pick up materials and tools, we'll prescribe them this digital tachograph. isn't that weird? i am very sorry that these logical steps have not been taken by the national transport ministers. until we have significant improvements, particularly in passenger transport, i will not agree to any change!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i'm sorry to barge in so late. but i just got out of a financial market regulation trilogy and i'm going back there. i would like to point out that we should be very sober about the tachograph and what it is needed for. is it a tool to increase road safety or is it a tool to ensure that driving and rest periods are respected? but if it is to ensure that eu social legislation is respected, then we should also focus on those who are really affected by the driving and rest periods. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. what we are doing here is over-regulating, what we are doing here is generating costs for the medium-sized enterprises that do not bring any additional security at the end of the day. i therefore recommend that the efd's request be followed and the whole proposal rejected.
i have to say, madam president, the commission is not prepared to accept this. i think we have to go back two years and finally look at the background to this proposal. i think the european commission has done the right thing in putting forward this proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these analogue tachographs are known to be capable of manipulation, and i think the switch to digital tachographs is right. it must be said here too: i would like to thank the rapporteur very much. it has taken a great deal of time to respond to the requests of the various groups. i think the records will be simplified with this digital tachograph, abuse will be prevented. i also thank the commission for taking note of the reality here, namely that some professions do not really need to be spoiled by this tachograph regulation. i therefore welcome the fact that a limit of 100 km per hour has been set as an exception. it's well known that i've been fighting for 100 miles. but still, it's a success that we have the 100-kilometer perimeter limit. i also think we're doing all this now via satellite. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the european commission for their work.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am pleased that the work on this report on the reindustrialisation of europe is now coming to a close and i have many people to thank for their contributions to this report. it is not just colleagues from this house, in particular the shadow rapporteurs, but also many voices from business, trade unions, consumer organisations, non-governmental organisations and in particular from the commission. since i heard that for the second time in one year the council has cancelled a summit on industrial policy that was originally planned for june last year, now for february, my pride in the work that is now before us in parliament has grown quite a bit. i would like to say clearly that i have the impression that the council is capitulating to the challenge of formulating a common european industrial policy. the commission, under the responsibility of vice-president tajani and his team, set itself very ambitious targets for this task a year ago. but if you listen to some voices, there is not much left of those goals. some people pretend that industrial policy is all about reducing energy costs and dealing with deregulation requirements. that is clearly below the requirements. and that will not be compensated by joint sunday speeches, which we will certainly hear from the council in march. i am therefore proud that this parliament, with this report, will be taking a clear position on three crucial points when it is adopted tomorrow. firstly, europe will only prove itself in international competition if we also have a common industrial policy with a common basic understanding, as we have said here. this is not only true of commodity policy or the relationship between foreign trade and industry, but also of the important sectors such as steel, cars and so on. the report by this parliament makes it clear that we want to continue to work on this thick board in order to arrive at a common industrial policy. secondly, industrial policy is also, as the commission rightly emphasized in its communication last year and as this report also emphasizes, a transversal, a horizontal issue. industrial policy includes education and training; this includes access to finance; this includes research and development; it covers a whole range of topics. it is only when this is integrated across all departments and a good governance structure is created that we can really achieve success in industrial policy. thirdly, industrial policy must be clearly oriented towards the fact that competitiveness in the future can only be achieved and safeguarded in the context of and on the basis of sustainability. this is certainly true in particular of southern europe, where the need for an industrial renaissance is particularly evident. but europe will have to orient itself if we are to remain competitive and retain technological leadership, it will have to orient itself on the high technological standards we have achieved in many areas, on production strategies with high added value, on networking of sites, on clustering, and on a strategy that collectively tries to do what the acronym rise says in this report: renaissance of industry for a sustainable europe.
adopted on 13december.the commission has decided to extend the deadline for the submission of comments to the council's opinion on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1612/1999 on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men andwomen in matters of social security. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. we should learn from experience, and the financial and economic crisis has given us a dramatic reminder of what happens when economies rely on the financial and service sectors as the only savior. and we have seen that it is precisely those member states which have not been totally caught up in the trend of deindustrialization over the past two decades that have fared better in the crisis. i therefore welcome, on behalf of the imco committee, the fact that the european commission is once again taking a greater interest in industrial policy in europe. but modern industrial policy must link different policy areas together. mr bütikofer, you spoke about sustainability. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european employment agency. i think it is important - and the imco committee has made this quite clear - that we ensure that special efforts are made in all the countries of the european union, and particularly where unemployment is particularly high.
rapporteur. − madam president, my thanks to commission vice-president tajani and to everyone for this discussion. if the vice-president and my colleague mr hénin from the gue/ngl group both argue that we are confronted with an industrial revolution, i think we can safely assume it is the case. if i understand anything about a revolution, i would say that you cannot win if you are afraid of moving forward, and we owe that much – let me thank you again here for your emotional words, vice-president – to the workers, to the people and, in particular, to young people. equally clearly, it will not be possible to effect a renaissance of industry if we think we can stick to yesterday’s ideas or technology. we have to innovate, move forward and engage in new ideas. competitiveness must not be seen as a trade-off against sustainability. this, i believe, is a core message that we all have to adopt, and i am sorry that some from the far right have not yet understood that. the same applies to the energy issue. it has been lamented that we are energy dependent – and, yes, we are – but the commission’s internal analysis shows that we will be less dependent if we increase efficiency and if we reduce co2 emissions. the triangle that we have always pursued – sustainability, availability, affordability – has to govern energy policy, and we should listen to energy-intensive industries if they call for an efficiency target for 2030. i would welcome it if the commission followed the ambitious lead of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on industry, research and energy, which have set goals to be pursued. so, thank you again for this discussion. but the real test lies in the implementation of these policies in everyday work, and i hope that we will find enough common ground to move forward together.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the programme of action of the greek presidency (2013/2629 ((rsp)). i would like to begin by warmly welcoming the president-in-office of the council of the european union, mr antonis samaras, the prime minister of the hellenic republic. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. when i walked into the chamber this morning, i thought, 'well, i wouldn't really want to be in mr samaras' shoes.' after hearing his speech, i think i am right in saying that it is not easy to fulfil the role he is playing for his country here in europe. i think it is a big mistake, mr samaras, that you come here, as you did when you went to berlin a while ago, and say: 'everything is fine, the reforms are going on. what you want from us in greece has been fulfilled". because my visits to greece in recent years have shown me something else. the requirements are met on paper and in numbers. yes, you can show that you've cut down on so many places. you can show that you have reduced public spending year after year. but what is happening at the same time, and this is not being addressed clearly enough by the greek government here, perhaps it is also an overreaction, and what is not clear in your speech is that what you actually need for greece to actually implement reforms in this wonderful country with people who can do a lot and want a lot, is no longer working. the kind of reforms imposed on greece and monitored by the troika are killing what is needed to make greece the state that many citizens want. you have a situation today where all the public institutions are no longer functioning. so what the state really does to its citizens - the schools, the universities, the hospitals - is in such a bad state that you think: it cannot be true that in 2014 in one european country, people fighting cancer are not getting the treatment they need! this is the state of affairs after several years of reforms. you must say here - and you must also make this clear to mrs merkel and mr gabriel in berlin - that if greece is to be a country in which reforms work, then not only must we insist on meeting these savings targets, but we must also meet the second part of the pact, namely, joint efforts to bring the country of greece out of not only recession but also depression. that's the only thing i think is really good that you said it. we are no longer dealing with a recession, we are dealing with a depression. the figures they give on growth are ridiculous compared with the unemployment you have in greece. we must act urgently against what is rightly perceived as injustice in greece, because the burdens of crisis policy are being distributed in this nation in a completely unfair way. this is what other nations in europe fear: that after this crisis, those who are always doing well will do better and those who have arrived at the bottom of society will do worse. greece - as mr verhofstadt has very well said - is the country that everyone looks to when it comes to orientation in europe. if you want reform, you must take your nation with you, you must not watch the best prepare to leave the country. the brainstorming that threatens you is also an attack on the need for reform in greece. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i read in the german newspaper this morning that the european commission is going to abandon the eco-innovation of our economy. mr barroso has apparently taken over the leadership of climate policy from hedegaard, oettinger and others. in greece, i am really afraid that key insights on green technologies, on renewable energy, on energy efficiency - things that could also quickly create growth and jobs - are now being torpedoed through brussels as well. i would think it crazy if this wonderful country would destroy its natural wealth, its opportunities for this wonderful tourism, by you now entering the fossil age and betting on oil and gas drilling there in your wonderful sea. i think it's crazy that you're selling your mineral resources to a canadian company called el dorado and that this wonderful forest of skouries at the entrance of the holy mount athos in canada will make profits and not in greece! ladies and gentlemen, there is also a problem of control in brussels. it is not just the troika that is a problem, but also the politicians who are advocating a backward economic policy, who are irresponsible in my view.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is also proposing to extend the i have shared it with my greek colleagues, and because of the short time i have to speak i should like to make a concrete contribution to the debate. with deep respect for the achievements of the people of greece, who have been burdened with unlikely, sometimes inhuman, burdens, i would like to point out that it is important that at this very moment, with greece, a country takes over the presidency which was the first to be subject to the memorandum policy and had to implement this memorandum, which also committed itself to this and committed itself to it - at least the government - and which should know exactly what the consequences of this type of policy are. you have said it before, mr samaras: the european union has made a design mistake, and we will correct that design mistake. but when will we get over the fact that the union is not only flawed in its design, but that its policy is also going in the wrong direction? the radical market policy that is being applied in crisis management is leading to exactly what we are experiencing now. we are facing a humanitarian catastrophe in some of the countries in crisis, and even if you present figures or, for example, are proud of the fact that a surplus has been achieved for the first time, it cannot hide the fact that unemployment, youth unemployment, poverty have stabilized at a very high level and will remain so for a long time. this is the problem we are facing, and it cannot be solved by drastic cuts in social benefits, by interference with fundamental rights, even by violating the fundamental rights of people! that is the question you should be asking here. that's what we're waiting for! we are looking for your input on how to deal with debt. we expect you to address the fact that some of the debt is also illegitimate, namely debt that has been created by converting private debt into public debt. and that, for example, the focus of our debate should be on what is clear in the un, that people must come first and that the survival of people must be guaranteed before they can be required to pay back debts! you can't reach into a seriously ill person's pocket and take the last of it. this must be the policy we are pursuing here in general, as a matter of principle, in relation to all the member states of the european union. first the people must come, and then the interests of the banks must be satisfied. that must be the norm. the fact that the european union has not yet been able to take action to combat unemployment is a very good sign of the fact that the european union is not yet able to take action to combat unemployment. i would ask you to take this opportunity to look at the greek presidency not just from the point of view of domestic policy, under the slogan 'we want to deliver success', but to make it clear that this is the path of development that cannot be taken any further. then we would all have achieved something together in the end. it would also be possible for solidarity to become a core element of the european union once again!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. when the crisis started, there was a great consensus here in parliament, in the council, that we have to take different steps, that each country has to make its own contribution, that we have to make efforts, that savings have to be made, that reforms have to be made and that then help is also given. and then we went this way. but soon after, the first debates began. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. today we hear from the president of the commission, today we hear from the prime minister that the first successes are slowly but surely being achieved. instead of thinking about how to continue along this path systematically, how to get from these first successes to second, third, fourth successes, how to move on, there is always the mockery, the slander, the abuse of the troika. i can't think of anything else! what responsibility does the troika have for the problems currently affecting europe? i don't understand this at all anymore. the agreements were made by those who gave the money; the troika is merely implementing them! so it's always the same game, to distract somewhere and try to paint crises without trying to systematically work piece by piece and move on. i am pleased with what the prime minister has said. not in the sense that the problem is finally solved, but as an indication that there is someone in the government who is trying to do this in their daily work - this is more exhausting than our job - to impose such a consolidation course step by step in a daily conflict. this deserves recognition, support and help. but don't just whine about what else could go wrong! i'm also sure that this path is without alternative. it will succeed in the end, as we have seen in other countries. solidarity and own responsibility is a wise concept of european policy!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. greece has been a member of our european union for over 30 years. this is the fifth presidency. i say this in the context of a discussion at home. greece can do this, greece will make a good presidency, i am sure of it. i was very pleased to hear that greece had announced - drawing on its own history - that it would be a spartan presidency, not a luxury, just work. i think that's a good approach. we are delighted and wish you all the best. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. i think we should really consider ending the six-month presidency system in the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think the european union needs to reform itself here. it's going to be a short presidency. the last plenary session is in april, then the european elections are in may, and until then several things are of central importance. first, the banking union to protect our taxpayers. the banks themselves must be responsible for the risks they take. it is not possible that the taxpayer is always being used. this is a major priority for the presidency in brussels. and the swift agreement with america must be suspended, as the majority of this house has called for. mr president, that is something you must try to convince your fellow prime ministers to accept. in greece we are pleased that you are continuing to reform the administration and the economy. there's a lot to do. horst reichenbach, the head of the task force, laments the lack of speed in reforming administration and politics in greece. this must change!
the council has already taken a decision on this. you have rightly stressed that we now also need growth impulses to get out of the crisis. one element of this is, of course, international trade. i am sure that the council will be able to take account of this in the future. the only thing that got me thinking is that you're all about trade liberalization. i believe that trade is not an end in itself, and growth through trade can only happen if we also get a fair framework for trade. we have just seen in the dispute with china over solar panels that we have to fight for fair terms. i would therefore urge the presidency of the council to work to ensure that we bring forward the reform of trade defence instruments, that we bring forward the enforcement arrangements and that we can also adopt the issue of public procurement under fair rules. this should be a priority in order to ensure fair trade. and that includes, ladies and gentlemen, mr president-in-office, that we must not allow trade to be given competitive advantages by dumping - dumping by government action, but above all dumping by failure to respect environmental standards and workers' rights. therefore, please work to ensure that the european union's trade efforts include environmental standards and workers' rights in an unequivocal and binding way, so that there can be no unfair dumping in future trade relations.
ladies and gentlemen, i have a statement from the council.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, at its meeting of 8 january, the permanent representatives committee of the council endorsed a joint statement of parliament, the council and the commission which includes support for a separate discharge for joint undertakings under article 209 of the financial regulation. a text of the joint statement has been made available to the services of this house and will, i understand, be included in the minutes of today’s meeting. i would like to take this opportunity to confirm that the council will endorse this statement at its meeting on monday, 20 january 2014. i hope the reassurance of the council’s endorsement of this statement will pave the way for parliament to withdraw its objections to the model financial regulation for public-private partnership bodies as proposed by the commission.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, as indicated by the presidency, the permanent representatives committee of the council endorsed, with the support of the commission, a joint statement by parliament, the council and the commission for discharge for joint undertakings under article 209 of the financial regulation. with this joint statement, support is given for the introduction of separate discharge in the basic acts of the joint undertakings, while maintaining a reference to article 209 of the financial regulation in order to ensure that the joint undertakings enjoy the benefits of simplified financial rules. the commission can confirm its agreement on the joint statement, and it hopes that this will pave the way for parliament to withdraw its objections to the model financial regulation for public and private partnership bodies as proposed by the commission.
chair of the cont committee. – mr president, the delegated act as adopted on 30 september 2013 foresees that public-private partnership bodies are to receive an indirect discharge via the commission, instead of an individual discharge as they receive now. we fought against this as a team of rapporteurs, and i thank ingeborg gräßle for this good compromise. we rechecked with the committee on budgets and the committee on budgetary controls which, acting under rule 51 and unanimously, adopted the motion for resolution objecting to the delegated act. an alternative approach was now agreed upon by the parliament, council and commission teams, which they are to endorse via a trilateral joint statement which foresees that, firstly, parliament, the council and the commission agree that the joint undertakings should continue to be subject to a separate discharge by the european parliament upon recommendation of the council, and secondly, that the commission will include derogations in the financial rules of the joint undertakings to reflect the separate discharge. subsequently, the commission will propose corresponding modifications to articles 209 and 60 of the financial regulation. thirdly (and last but not least), the commission delegated regulation of 30 september 2013 on the model financial regulation for public-private partnership bodies will enter into force in order to allow joint undertakings to benefit from the simplifications introduced in the new financial framework. as just mentioned by the presidency, the council will endorse the joint statement on 20 january. in the light of this, the committee on budgetary control and, i believe, the committee on budgets are ready to endorse this trilateral joint statement on the separate discharge for joint undertakings. in the name of the committee on budgetary control, i request the withdrawal of the resolution objecting to the delegated act which was initially planned for vote tomorrow in plenary.
i would like to thank you very much, mr theurer. the motion for a resolution is therefore withdrawn. i assume that the house will agree that this also means that the item is removed from the agenda. i see no objection to that, so it has been decided. joint statement by the european parliament, the council and the commission on the separate discharge for joint undertakings under article 209 of the financial regulation the european parliament, the council and the commission agree that in order for the joint undertakings to benefit from simplified financial rules better adapted to their public-private nature, they should be set up under article 209 of the financial regulation. however, they also agree that: in view of the specific nature and the current status of the joint undertakings, and in order to ensure continuity with the 7th framework programme, the joint undertakings should continue to be subject to a separate discharge to be given by the european parliament on the recommendation of the council. for this reason, specific derogations from article 209 of the financial regulation shall be introduced in the constituent acts of the joint undertakings to be set up under the horizon 2020 programme. those derogations will refer to the separate discharge and will include any additional necessary adaptations. in order to allow the joint undertakings to benefit immediately from the simplifications introduced in the new financial framework, it is necessary that the commission delegated regulation of 30 september 2013 on the model financial regulation for ppp bodies under article 209 of the financial regulation enters into force. 2.the european parliament and the council take note that the commission: will ensure that the financial rules of the joint undertakings include derogations from the model financial regulation for ppp bodies to reflect the introduction of separate discharge in their constituent acts; intends to propose relevant modifications to articles 209 and 60 (7) of the financial regulation in the framework of the future revision of the financial regulation.
mr artur zasada left the ppe group and joined the ecr group with effect from 9 january 2014. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪
i thank you very much, mr audy. i'll inform the president of your intervention.
the next item is the vote on the motions for resolutions. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i believe that a reasonable compromise has been reached, as is contained in the proposal which is now before us. the socialist group has now tabled an amendment which i think is very sensible in one respect, namely that the inta committee should be given powers to deal with investments in order to clarify matters. i would suggest that the word 'investment' be inserted in the original application. if the socialist group were to accept this compromise, we could vote in favour. if the socialist group rejects this, we shall reject the socialist motion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would ask you to accept this. the tasks we have in the committee on culture and education are 90% educational. nobody who talks about erasmus+ understands that we're doing it in the cult committee. so i would be very happy if we could change that, which is 'education and culture' and not 'culture and education' as they say now. we should have the value right in the title. (applause from the centre)
i thank you very much, mrs berès. your intervention will be noted in the minutes. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
mr fox! i also had a chat with the president. the president's decision to declare the applications inadmissible shall be final. the european court of justice has ruled that 12 ordinary plenary sessions must be held in strasbourg. the court has recognised that parliament's practice of holding plenary sessions over four days is in keeping with the requirements of a regular plenary session. this was a hasty decision, after we had five plenary sessions here in strasbourg in the past. we could only justify a substantial reduction in the duration of the plenary sessions, as proposed by mr fox, by saying that the situation has changed substantially. in reality, however, parliament's tasks are increasing rather than decreasing. last year we were confirmed by a judgment that we cannot cancel four plenary days. the subject of the request is now that 12 plenary sessions be cancelled. that is why i also think it is justified for the president to say that we cannot accept motions which lead us to be certified before the court of justice as having acted unlawfully. the other case, mr mcmillan-scott, is the strasbourg question. we had, before we had the structural problem, usually six mini plenary sessions. the current proposal means that it will be extended to 10 plenary sessions. this has nothing to do with the previous case law of the european court of justice. the president therefore declared these epp motions admissible. there is no appeal against this decision. the decision is final. the only thing left to decide now is mr mcmillan-scott's request that this motion be deferred. there is now a report for and a report against.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i'll make it short, colleagues. i would just like to point out that the decision of parliament, as reflected in this report, to give greater weight to eu-asean relations, makes it clear that, contrary to some very negative public comments on the development of a common european foreign policy, there are indeed steps forward. the european parliament's commitment to strengthening this cooperation has been very much welcomed in the asean region. i am therefore glad that we have given this signal in committee with great unanimity and i hope that we will do the same here.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i thank you very much for voting today. we agreed in committee that we would put the compromise package agreed in committee to the vote in plenary. we did that today. we do not want to see the commission's proposals being rejected. i would be grateful if we could postpone the final vote on this.
i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. mr president, i can hear you, even if you are speaking normally.
thank you, thank you. that was not on the agenda either. the commission has already made a number of proposals.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think we have shown that the european union is also capable of enacting legislation which actually adds european value. we now know that this will actually make us safer on the road. we will also be able to curb abuse. and i also think that actually now with the new technological possibilities that are going to be made easier to track, that we can also make it easier to check in the road. in that sense, i think it's a good decision and a good decision. the derogation also gives member states the possibility of allowing various exceptions where appropriate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i rejected the proposal for a digital tachograph. the rapporteur has achieved a great deal with her work on the digital tachograph, with regard to the remote consultation of data, uniform control practices and data protection. but the compromise reached with the council of the eu does not go far enough for me. we members of parliament had made many proposals for practical solutions. none of these has been accepted by the national transport ministers. i have been particularly active in advocating more flexible management of driving and rest periods for public transport. it would be easy to create high added value for the citizen by introducing more flexible rules. of course, we must not open the door to manipulation. the flexibility must not create any additional burden for drivers. but people don't behave like inanimate objects. we have to take breaks in the rights of passengers when we travel.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr philippe juvin on concessions. the concession directive is a major step towards completing the internal market for services. the new rules establish a uniform framework for all concessions and provide for greater legal certainty. in the future, it will be easier for smes to participate in tenders. i very much welcome the fact that after a long struggle we have succeeded in removing water supply from the scope of the directive. this leaves the local authorities full scope for action. the same applies to emergency rescue, which is also not covered by the directive.
in writing. - i supported this report because it represents a reasonable compromise. the revision of the public procurement law will lead to more transparency, clarity and legal certainty for cities and municipalities as contracting authorities. and it supports the reduction of red tape with practical solutions that are particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted today for the line of the committee on the environment and against the position of the european commission on the honey regulation, and i did so intentionally. i am very sorry that we did not find a majority. it's not about whether the pollen is a component or not. it's about how this pollen is being contaminated by genetically modified organisms. the organisms the gmos are the real problem. that was the main point of the debate, which apparently was not accepted by everyone here - as we have just heard from the united kingdom. if we have gmos in this food, in this honey, then it must be clear to all consumers; and that's not natural because they've been changed. i call it genetic engineering: a contradiction to nature. that was something we actually decided by a large majority in the environment committee. the house has decided otherwise today. we can say as csu members of parliament from bavaria that we come from a region free of genetic engineering. that is why we voted against the european commission's vote and in favour of the line of the environment committee.
in writing. - i have agreed to this commission's draft honey directive because we are avoiding additional effort and costs for beekeepers which would not have benefited consumers. pollen is a natural component of the natural product honey. because it is the collective action of the bees that brings it into the honey - so naturally - and not by deliberate addition by the beekeeper. in addition, the pollen content of the final product is very low and can only be detected with considerable and costly effort. one kilogram of honey contains about 0.03 grams of pollen. so the average german consuming honey will only take in 3 grams of pollen in his entire lifetime. pollen is and remains an inevitable and natural component of honey. a different assessment is of no benefit to the consumer or to the beekeeper. thank you very much.
i am not going to go into detail. so much for the explanations of vote on the martin report. as we have announced, we will not be able to vote on the bütikofer report on reindustrialisation because the services have to prepare the chamber for the afternoon session at 3 p.m. these explanations of vote will take place tomorrow.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. in germany, in the years when we have delayed the date for the free movement of persons, we have nevertheless continued to experience: we have many workers coming to germany from eastern europe, from all over eastern europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. it's illegal! it's black! makes it awfully easy to take them out. this is not a relief for the german welfare system. i have always heard the indignation at these conditions, at this raisin picking in germany, but not in the context of a national uproar such as is now taking place in connection with the free movement of workers, the free movement of workers in bulgaria and romania. i think that is a bigoted and completely misguided discussion. only when we have this legal immigration into a labor market can we talk about our social systems being relieved as well. what we are seeking is not just equal rights; what we are seeking is equal responsibilities for people working side by side. equal responsibilities, equal rights even if europeans bring different passports to the workplace. i think it is very good that the european commission has also made the german debate a matter of fact. and i think we should tell the german government again what really happened. they had pushed that date back as far as possible. why wasn't anything prepared? why, after all the excitement, did an ad hoc working party have to be set up to solve the problems? that we would have demands for hartz iv, that we would also have demands for child support, that was clear. why delay and then no preparation? i think that germany, as the most prosperous nation in this conflict, is not necessarily the country we should take an example from!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. first of all, i would like to congratulate my bulgarian and romanian colleagues on the fact that the citizens of their countries are finally able to enjoy freedom of movement! we on the left stand for equality and equal rights for all citizens living in the eu, without any ifs and buts. the chauvinistic and nationalist incitement of prime minister cameron and the small prince seehofer must be resisted, because it is directed against all citizens who work or live outside their country of origin. so it is not just bulgaria and romania, as we see. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the free movement directive does not allow for discrimination. nor is it because of social origin. this also has something to do with the charter of fundamental rights, which is the one that enshrines this. we demand that the member states, like the federal republic of germany, amend their laws in such a way that the principle of free movement is granted to all. we therefore warmly support the commission's position. the restrictive rules of the federal republic of germany are currently the subject of proceedings before the court of justice of the european communities, and german courts have also ruled against the restrictive granting of hartz iv, i.e. unemployment benefit ii. let me finish with one word: the same people who are now complaining about labour migration and opposing immigration were the very people who voted to cut the eu budget, including the cohesion funds, which are supposed to fight poverty and exclusion. i'm just saying, people, shame on you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the commission! for me, as a liberal, freedom of movement is the basis for prosperity and for growth. the internal market and free movement are intended to give people life chances, to develop a perspective. however, what i am experiencing at the moment - i am from germany, or more precisely from bavaria - is the exact opposite. it is pure populism what the csu has done in bavaria in recent weeks. it has really discriminated against bulgarians and romanians and has, in a populist way, portrayed them as social fraudsters. i wonder now, quite frankly, where the colleagues from the csu are. they could bring this issue here, but unfortunately they are not here today. this is precisely where you see that the whole issue has been misused as a pure campaign. i find this very disturbing as a european, because, as has already been said, the facts paint a very different picture. we need the people in germany, in europe. we want these people to come to us and work here too. we are in favour of free movement and we want a culture of welcome, especially in germany and bavaria. we are aware of the problems of individual communities in connection with the emigration of the poor. that's not a question. but we're working on it objectively. the esf can be used for this purpose. but i must also say, and this is now addressed to the commission: the communication last week, the statement, the interview with you, commissioner andor, was not very helpful. i am sorry to say that your statement has played into the hands of the csu after you gave a very misleading interview. it must be clear that if someone works and has paid into the social funds, he normally has access to the social systems. but if it has not worked, then we cannot start introducing huge individual case studies, because that would mean additional bureaucracy. it doesn't make sense.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners and president-in-office of the council! i can only repeat what my predecessor has already made clear: freedom of movement is a fundamental right of all eu citizens. the rich member states in particular are the ones who benefit enormously from this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the services provided by the public authorities. we must also remember that the fundamental right of free movement entails rights and obligations for both citizens and member states. and in my view, it is pure populism if the csu and the cdu in germany propagate that immigrants from romania and bulgaria are taking advantage of the german social system and are coming to germany just for the sake of it. eu law has a clear rule: when a member state detects such a disturbance, it must provide the commission with figures. and these figures do not exist for germany! on the other hand, this immigration has positive effects on our social system in an aging germany. the debate initiated by the cdu/csu is, in my view, essentially an expression of xenophobia and stirs up classic fears of foreigners who want to take something away from germans. it threatens to become a racist debate against the sinti and roma! any restriction on freedom of movement is a shock to the eu's festivities. we greens are against the creation of a two-class society in the eu and different people from different countries getting different rights. that is why it is very important for us that this resolution be debated here today and voted on successfully tomorrow.
mr president, commissioners, the presidency of the council! freedom of movement is a fundamental right of the european union, for which we have fought from the beginning - i personally too - and it must be defended. it is quite clear that discrimination against the citizens of any country cannot be allowed. this is against european law and against our principles. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the social rights of those who work in a country, even if they become unemployed, are the same as those of citizens of that country. this must be made absolutely clear and must not be regulated in any other way. it must be clear that freedom of movement is a cultural asset for our citizens, but also an economic advantage. sometimes we could fight unemployment if we had more mobility. i think that this is another point which must be seen in a positive light. but it must also be clear that eu law provides the means not only to establish freedom of movement but also to prevent its abuse. i am therefore grateful that the commission has now made proposals to enable local institutions to deal with this problem better. and i meant nothing else in the past! it must be clear that there are problems in national legislation and that some local administrations are not able to cope with this problem of opening up to free movement and its abuse, and therefore we must provide the appropriate support. i believe that europe creates freedom of movement, but it also provides legal means to prevent abuse. i think it's an important way to uphold the law so that populists don't have a chance to use abuse in the wrong direction. we should see that european programmes are used... (the president cut the speaker off)
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, honourable members, over the past six months we have been confronted with a number of increasingly worrying leaks, media reports and allegations related to secret us surveillance programmes impacting on the privacy and personal data of eu citizens. the disclosure of information about the surveillance programmes operated by the us national security agency, the nsa, has understandably raised a number of serious concerns. the eu institutions have responded in various ways to these allegations. you have, of course, established your own committee of inquiry, which i understand is due to report shortly. separately, an eu-us ad-hoc working group on data protection has been established to look into the legal framework for us surveillance activities impacting on persons resident in the european union. the eu chairs of this group issued their report on 27 november last year. the commission also published a communication in november on rebuilding trust in eu-us data flows. as far as the specific issue of the safe harbour is concerned, this is a matter for the commission, since it is a commission decision. as part of its reporting duties, the commission recently issued a communication addressed to parliament and the council on the functioning of the safe harbour decision. as a first step, the commission has planned an in-depth discussion of this report between representatives of the member states within the so-called article 31 committee. this will be the start of the review of the functioning of the safe harbour scheme, and we understand that this broader review process will involve open consultation and a debate in parliament and the council. the report of the eu chairs of the eu-us working group on data protection shows that us law contains a number of legal bases which allow the large-scale collection and processing of personal data that is transferred to the us or is otherwise processed by companies based in the us. the safe harbour decision provides in annex i that adherence to the privacy principle may be limited to the extent necessary, if justified by national security, public interest or law enforcement requirements. the commission states in its communication that, while the exceptional processing of data for the purposes of national security is recognised under the safe harbour, the large-scale access by intelligence agencies to data transfer to the united states in the context of commercial transactions was not foreseeable at the time of adopting the safe harbour. the commission communication made 13 recommendations to improve the functioning of the safe harbour. as regards access by us authorities to data transferred under the safe harbour, three elements are worth mentioning. firstly, the principles of proportionality and necessity need to be respected. this means addressing possible differences of understanding between the us and the eu over what is necessary and proportionate, in particular for the protection of national security. it also means looking at possible differences of treatment between us citizens and residents and non-us persons. secondly, the commission raises concerns that some of the safeguards provided for under us law are available only to us citizens or legal residents. the council has already expressed strong support for these two points made by the commission. there is a need for equal treatment of eu residents and us persons and recognition of enforceable privacy rights for eu residents on the same basis as for us persons, and a need for enhancing the necessity and proportionality of data collection. as you know, in the us a review is on-going on the functioning of the surveillance programmes, and we strongly hope those points will be taken into account. the third point raised by the commission is the need for greater transparency over the data transferred to a company in the us under the safe harbour agreement. the report from the review group on intelligence and communication technologies set up by president obama includes a number of recommendations which go some way in this direction. the commission is now intending to take further contacts with the us in order to seek improvements to the shortcomings it identified in its communication. while the challenging issue is the nsa surveillance practices, the commission’s recommendations also address other aspects of the functioning and enforcement of the safe harbour scheme. we believe that this is the right way to proceed. safe harbour represents a commission decision based on the 1995 data protection directive. it is therefore within the power of the commission and not of the council to amend, suspend or revoke that decision. there are important issues at stake here. on the one hand, there are all these concerns about intelligence-gathering by a foreign state which happens to be our most important strategic partner; on the other hand, we have to take measures to protect the right to privacy and protection of people in the eu. ultimately, we can only resolve these matters through dialogue, and we therefore welcome all opportunities for discussion. in particular we encourage the commission to continue to engage in a constructive, rigorous dialogue with the us authorities on the specific points which it has identified as needing to be addressed.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, we have had the opportunity to debate the implication of the nsa revelations this summer on several occasions, both in this chamber and in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe). those exchanges have been very useful, and i am looking forward to the important conclusions of the libe inquiry committee. it remains essential to speak with one voice to our us partners and to ensure that the protection of data is properly addressed in this us debate. the exchanges and meetings of the commission with the us authorities, the visits of the delegations of this parliament to the us and the work done with the member states in the eu-us ad-hoc expert group have all been opportunities to highlight our common concerns. parliament and the commission have spoken with one voice, and – very importantly – the message was received like this in the united states. it was also made clear in the united states that we need to rebuild trust in our transatlantic relationship and in transatlantic data transfers – a trust which, unfortunately, has been eroded. as the presidency has already said, safe harbour is an important agreement and an arrangement in this context. it is a responsibility of the commission. it deals with the transfer of personal data from the eu to companies in the us. the aim of this scheme, which was put in place in the year 2000, was to make sure that our rights are protected at all times according to eu standards, while securing the business advantages which flow from the ability to transfer personal data to the us for processing there. there are deficiencies, and the commission is addressing those. as requested by parliament, we have analysed safe harbour, and on 27 november 2013 we issued our analysis and we were clear that safe harbour may be not so safe all the time. as a result of the lack of transparency and enforcement of safe harbour on the us side, some companies do not, in practice, comply with the scheme. this impacts negatively on individuals’ rights and may create an unfair competitive advantage for those companies over the european companies operating on the same market. we also take very seriously the risk that safe harbour, as a conduit for transfers of personal data, facilitates access by us national security authorities under large scale surveillance programmes. while the safe harbour decision allows limitations of protection when justified by national security, they must comply with the principles of proportionality and necessity. massive collection of data by the authorities on anybody beyond suspicion is certainly not proportionate or necessary. i made it very clear to our american counterparts that this issue needs to be addressed in a satisfactory manner if we want to ensure the continuity of the safe harbour scheme. eu data subjects must have clarity and must be able to believe that, if their data is transferred to the us, it is not routinely screened by the nsa. after all, the purpose of the safe harbour agreement was to provide eu data subjects with a higher level of protection than that available under the law in the united states, in order to meet the eu standards of data protection. in a nutshell, safe harbour is meant to be an island of eu-style data protection within the us. the commission communication to the parliament and the council on the functioning of safe harbour identifies 13 crucial points necessary to ensuring the continuity of data protection according to eu standards. the commission made concrete recommendations in four major areas of improvement which are necessary to be implemented by the us side: on transparency, on the possibility of effective redress, on effective enforcement and on limitations to access by public authorities. with these 13 points, the us authorities now have a to-do list on their desk. i expect them to deliver and to seriously improve the scheme. we should have a first exploratory meeting with the us authorities in brussels in the near future. the us department of commerce and the us federal trade commission, with whom i have thoroughly discussed this question, should improve the functioning and enforcement of the safe harbour agreement. the national security exemption in safe harbour must work in a clear and narrow way to ensure that it is only used in cases where it is necessary and proportionate according to the fixed standards. our communication on rebuilding trust in eu-us data flows makes clear that remedies must be identified by the summer of this year, and they should be implemented very soon. we will then review the functioning of the safe harbour scheme based on the implementation of these recommendations. this broader review process should involve an open consultation and a debate in the european parliament. making safe harbour safer should not, however, distract us from our focus on the data protection reform. a strong legislative framework with clear rules that are enforceable – also when data is transferred and processed abroad – is, more than ever, a must. it will provide legal certainty and protection for data subjects and for companies. let me therefore congratulate those in this house who have worked very hard on data protection reform. parliament adopted a strong text which makes clear the union’s determination. together, we have to apply pressure on the council to accelerate its work so that negotiations can start and an agreement can be concluded in line with the european council conclusions. i am very grateful to the greek presidency for the fact that next week there will be an informal council meeting which will put this subject on the table.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the first thing that we want to make clear in today's debate is that we are sticking to the plan. as the european parliament, we want the nsa debate to remain alive, both as a signal to the citizens of europe that we care, and to our friends in america. the political framework is clear: the nsa leaks, the scale of what we've seen in this, were unimaginable to many of us. then, in between, the comparison with russia and china came up. but of course, in america, we have to deal with our friends. so there must be a difference in how we treat each other. the first answers were correct, politically first: a thank you to the commission and to our commissioner, who found clear and unambiguous words in washington! the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. i hope it works. we must respond economically with the standards that europe can provide, and we must think legislatively, and we are called upon to do so. that is why the european people's party is calling for us to withdraw from the safe harbor agreement. we need to put pressure on washington. we need to put pressure on our partners because the question is rightly whether the united states is still a safe harbour or not. safe harbour was the principle of the internal market: mutual respect for each other's data protection standards. these us standards are sufficient to gain access to the european market. we are currently working on european data protection law. it is clear to all that we will only be able to implement this european data protection law halfway, namely only for eu companies, if we do not put safe harbour on the test. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's why we need to put safe harbor on the test. this is mainly because digitisation is just beginning. we're going to see in the next few years and decades that it's going to completely change our lives. the second reason why we want to end safe harbour is that we hope that washington understands that we are serious as europeans about changing the partnership, that we are serious about washington having to change direction, that washington has to rethink, and that we make it clear that we no longer accept that there are first and second class citizens, or rather consumers, that there is a difference between europeans and americans when it comes to data standards. the commissioner has already said that the european parliament is not going to be able to vote on the amendments to the directive. washington needs to understand that. the european people's party wants partnership, we want close partnership with the united states of america. we would be clearing the way for this partnership to be put on a new footing, one that would then deserve the name of partnership, by terminating the safe harbour agreement.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, edward snowden’s revelations have shown that we need better protection for our personal data. the way in which the big data business and our intelligence services are invading our privacy and analysing our lives today is outrageous. but although millions of citizens and consumers publicly complain about this, not a single eu government is taking action to stop it. here too i hear no consequences. instead, the voice of google, eric schmidt, calls privacy an anomaly and wants us to say goodbye to privacy and data protection. the us internet companies from silicon valley successfully lobbied against any regulation of their data collection activities in washington d.c. here in europe they just ignored them. by using the safe harbour decision they evade effective enforcement by european authorities. we are at the point where all of this has to stop, and it is this parliament which has the power to do so. we have been insisting on the adoption of a single european data protection law for over two years now. meanwhile, our colleagues in the council of ministers just went around in circles and in lengthy debates, without the willingness to determine even their own position on an effective privacy and data protection framework. and the big data business from silicon valley says ‘thank youʼ, while the european unions’ citizens and consumers lose their trust in our governments’ ability to protect even the most fundamental rights they have. if we do not stop the circumvention of european rules by us companies by passing our single data protection regulation and putting pressure on the united states – and also by cancelling the safe harbour decision – we will not only lose the sovereignty of the european union but we will also lose the voters, who will stay at home, as they do not expect us to protect their interests and rights.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. what is the future of our relations with the united states? we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do it. or are we gonna play the "big brother is back" routine that makes america laugh? of course, safe harbour is a good thing in principle, but in reality it is an absolute farce! the patriot act is already the first thing that's gonna fuck up treaties and fundamental rights. an independent audit revealed that the agreement is really just a paper tiger, a third of the companies do not even take action in case of violations of the agreement. there is no transparent control, no appeal. the commission's proposals may be well-intentioned, but they are not at all sufficient and the wrong way! we need high standards of data protection, mandatory for all companies, an effective and transparent control system. safe harbour rules, or whatever they're called, need to be enshrined in a binding framework data protection agreement with the us and no longer blocked by the us, because that's what happens. the development of this agreement is being blocked, there is no progress in this area. the united states must stop - we must say this loud and clear - snooping on millions of innocent eu citizens. we, as non-u.s. citizens, are, in a sense, free-range. and i say we can no longer be treated as wildlife when we come to the united states. article 3 (4) of the agreement provides that the agreement may be suspended or terminated if it cannot be implemented. i expect that the commission will act in this spirit, in respect of the fundamental rights of over 500 million citizens!
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i have understood your message. you certainly have understood too that, as requested by parliament, we have analysed the safe harbour regime and, on the basis of the work of the ad-hoc group and our discussions with european businesses, we have identified the deficiencies. i agree with what you said about these deficiencies; those are also the conclusions to which we came. on the basis of those conclusions, the commission produced 13 concrete recommendations which relate to all the aspects of the scheme: transparency, redress, enforcement and access for national security purposes. so those are the 13 ways to improve the functioning of safe harbour. these 13 requests are now on the table of the american government. it is a to-do-list, and it is up to the american government to recognise the seriousness of our concerns. i think that the debate which has taken place today in this house will help us to move forward on this one. the remedies should be identified by summer 2014 – that is what the commission put on the table. then it will be for the college to look at whether these remedies have been put in place – yes or no – and then to take a decision. you can be sure that i will report back to the president of the college and to the college about the discussion which has taken place here today.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, the only way to address the important issue raised in this debate is by engaging in a dialogue with the united states. under the safe harbour decision, that responsibility falls to the commission, and i would strongly urge that the commission be given sufficient time and confidence to do this. like this house, the council will be closely following the commission’s action with regard to the safe harbour decision. many of the concerns that have been raised in parliament are valid ones, but we must allow the commission and the us authorities sufficient time to address these points. in the course of a few months, the review group on intelligence and communications technologies set up by president obama has produced a report. your parliament will vote on the report of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs’ committee of inquiry. we must now allow adequate time to enable the most appropriate action to be taken in order to address the points raised.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, the year 2013 was designated as the european year of citizens and was aimed at raising awareness of the rights and responsibilities that come with eu citizenship. towards the end of last year, the council responded to the eu citizenship report 2013 drawn up by the commission. it welcomed the progress achieved in implementing the first report and, more generally, underlined the importance of eu citizenship in strengthening eu identity. in general, it is important that we continue to raise awareness of eu citizenship and implement the rights which come with it. this afternoon you have chosen to discuss one particular aspect of eu citizenship, which i know is a matter of concern to many in this parliament. the preamble of the eu charter of fundamental rights in establishing the citizenship of the union states clearly that the union places the individual at the heart of its activities. active participation by eu citizens in the democratic life of the eu – as we will see in particular later this year in the european elections – is just one of the many benefits of citizenship which are already firmly rooted in the treaties and which are elaborated further in eu secondary law. given the importance of eu citizenship, any concerns which may exist concerning the acquisition of national citizenship in more member states must be examined carefully. our starting point must be the extent and limits of the eu legal framework. the treaty of lisbon further strengthens the notion of eu citizenship and the rights that go with it. however, it is important to remind ourselves that eu citizenship is additional to, and does not replace, national citizenship. this means that every eu citizen has the citizenship of at least one of the 28 member states. it is a clear principle in international law that the member states have the power to lay down the conditions for the acquisition or loss of nationality. this is obviously a principle recognised in eu law and has been confirmed in rulings of the european court of justice. this means that there is no harmonisation of national legislation in this field. the conditions for acquiring and losing eu citizenship depend directly on the conditions for acquiring and losing the nationality of an individual member state. it follows that the question of whether an individual possesses the nationality of a particular member state can only be answered by referring to the national legislation of that member state. although eu citizenship depends on member state nationality, it also has an autonomous character stemming from the character of the european legal order. this means that the competence of member states to enact laws concerning national citizenship has to be exercised in accordance with the treaties. any possible infringement of eu law in relation to member state legislation regarding nationality would be a matter for the commission rather than the council. to date the council is not aware of any such case of infringement and has certainly not discussed the issue. it is therefore not possible for me to say more about this specific point other than to underline the fact that the member states must have sufficient trust in each other to recognise mutually different national provisions governing naturalisation. i cannot contribute more to this debate, given that the council has no position, for the reasons which i have just explained. i will nevertheless listen carefully to the points made this afternoon and i will report back to the council.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, the commission is attentive to developments in those member states which have set up investor schemes for granting citizenship. recently our attention was drawn mainly to the maltese investors’ scheme. there is no doubt – and the council has said this very clearly – that the conditions for obtaining and forfeiting national citizenship are regulated by the national law of each member state. but there is also no doubt that granting the nationality of a member state means also granting eu citizenship and the rights attached to this. these are rights which can be exercised and must be recognised all over the union. this means that you grant citizenship in one country and 28 countries have to recognise the rights which go with it. in other words, awarding nationality and citizenship to a person gives this person rights vis-à-vis 27 member states in addition to the one in which they have been granted. in fact, since the treaty of maastricht, granting member state citizenship also means granting eu citizenship, which means granting a series of additional eu rights: the right to move and reside freely within the eu territory; the right to work and to stand as a candidate in european and municipal elections in the member states of residence; the right to consular protection; the right to benefit from the many achievements of the single market. as a consequence, naturalisation decisions taken by one member state are not neutral with regard to other member states or to the eu as a whole. national citizenship is an entrance door to the eu. it is an entrance door to the eu treaty and to the rights eu citizens enjoy. so a passport is not only a paper or an official document. it conveys rights and obligations both to citizens and to member states of the union. that is why member states should use their prerogatives to award citizenship in the spirit of sincere cooperation with the other member states, as stipulated by the eu treaties. in compliance with the criterion used under public international law, member states should only award citizenship to persons where there is a ‘genuine link’ or ‘genuine connection’ to the country in question. so in general, let me raise the question: do we like the idea of selling the rights provided by the eu treaties? my answer is: certainly not. citizenship must not be up for sale. we have been celebrating, as the president-in-office has just said, the european year of citizens 2013 in order to mark the 20th anniversary of european citizenship. in this context it is legitimate to question whether eu citizenship rights should merely depend on the size of someone’s wallet or bank account. i am not calling for the commission to obtain extension of its legal power to determine what constitutes nationality or the rules granting it. the commission nevertheless expects from the member states that they act in full awareness of the consequences of their decisions. our debate today shows the growing importance of these questions in a european union where national decisions are in many instances not neutral vis-à-vis other member states and the eu as a whole. it is a fact that the principle of sincere cooperation, which is inscribed in the eu treaties (article 4(3) of the treaty on european union), should make the member states take account of the impact of the decisions they take in the field of nationality on other member states and on the union as a whole. that is why the commission follows any developments concerning citizenship in the member states very closely. citizenship has been very much in the centre of our discussions in recent years: in the context of the european year of citizenship, in the run-up to the european parliament elections, and more generally in all our work to reconnect our european citizens to the democratic life of the eu. that is why i sincerely say here and now that citizenship cannot be taken lightly. it is a fundamental element of our union and one cannot put a price tag on it. (applause)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we must applaud the speech by our vice-president viviane reding, who has found the right words. the council should also be able to say the same about these points. legally, it is clear: citizenship law is national law, and no one questions that. but with the lisbon treaty and the maastricht treaty we have eu citizenship, and that is why it concerns us all. i would ask the council to discuss this matter as well. if there is no opinion today, the council should accordingly discuss the matter. we are not talking about theoretical things today, we are talking about very practical things, namely the case of malta. that's what today is about. you have to sit down and think about it for a second. it's actually unimaginable that there could actually be any legislative proposals that citizenship can be bought. citizenship is about identity, it's about roots, it's about solidarity in a society, and you can't buy that. the maltese government's proposal is wrong. i would like to stress first of all that many other member states, which are also under discussion today, have quite different rules. in malta, the first proposal had meant that citizenship could be obtained without ever having set foot on maltese soil. we have a clear demand as the european people's party, namely to stop the legislation. we want the maltese government to take the opposition's outstretched hand and discuss with the opposition there the next developments. and we want the commission's proposals to be taken seriously. i would like to conclude by making an appeal to the maltese people: malta is a great country. they have acquired high civil rights in malta over the years and decades. you have a great story. your citizenship in malta is valuable! you can be proud to be maltese and european. i therefore ask the citizens of malta to tell their governments that maltese citizenship cannot be bought. please stop this legislation!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, we must - and mrs lunacek has done an excellent job of working with us shadow rapporteurs - continue to push the republic of kosovo on its european path. this includes the swift conclusion of the stabilisation and association agreement, kosovo's swift membership of the council of europe, which is also an important condition, and above all the recognition of kosovo by the five eu member states which have not yet done so. serbia has moved, thankfully, but why are these five countries still standing? they should at least be as active as serbia and should no longer close themselves off from the process of recognition, if serbia is at least friendly and pragmatic. i would like to make one thing quite clear: serbia must of course also meet certain conditions. i welcome the fact that negotiations are being held with serbia, but we must see that, for example, in the preševo valley and elsewhere, a disastrous minority policy is being pursued, that serbian police have now stormed a school in the preševo valley, have intimidated schoolchildren, confiscated schoolbooks, arrested teachers - these are all things that do not contribute to peace in the region. we want minority rights in kosovo, we want minority rights in serbia, but on the same level, and serbia should be guided by the constitution of kosovo. we need a bilateral practice where both sides of the border are measured by the same standards. i hope that the accession process of both countries can be completed at about the same time, even if it starts under very different conditions. i would like to say one thing very clearly in conclusion about the greek presidency: the environment must also be stabilised. i therefore ask greece to finally lift the blockade against macedonia and thereby bring more stability to the whole region. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. my answer is very clear: i am happy that greece is pushing forward the european integration of the whole area and thus of macedonia as well. i therefore appeal to the greek government and the council to resolve the name issue in the next six months of the greek presidency and to ensure that it no longer blocks development. then we're all very happy. i look forward to the council presidency's reply.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner! i think it is good news that accession negotiations are beginning with serbia and that negotiations on an association agreement with kosovo are beginning. i thank the commissioner and the high representative for building the bridges that make this possible. in the year in which 100 years ago the first world war began, we must see that the balkans have always been a place of division to the detriment of the peoples there with implications for the whole of europe. and europe can be a model here if you have a common rule of law, if you live by common rules, if you eliminate corruption, if you create economic development, if you develop market maturity. all of this can help to build bridges and to make the past a little bit forgotten. i think that is of enormous importance, and that is why we must keep our word from thessaloniki that the door to membership is open to these countries. i also believe that living in europe means that the old conflicts - including the minority conflicts that were just mentioned in connection with hungary - lose their importance, because no matter which side of the border you live in, you live in the same legal community, and that is the crucial point. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the financial interests of the union. both countries must be prepared to resolve the problems in northern kosovo, for example, so that the tensions that have arisen there after the local elections can also be brought under control. but i believe that this is an important gain, that the original idea of europe, to make borders unnecessary, so that everyone can live as if it were a common law community, will create inner peace and help us all. commissioner, i wish you the best of luck in the negotiations.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. i would like to thank mr preda in particular for his many years of careful work on this subject. we will probably not be discussing another progress report on iceland in this house - not during this election period and not in the long term, as things stand. the eu has a longstanding and stable majority in iceland against joining the eu. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether the commission will take a decision on the matter. it acted on request, in established proceedings and in accordance with clear legal provisions. the commission has also made a number of proposals to the council, which it has not yet adopted. with few inhabitants, few industries tied to the cycles of nature, and no army of its own, it lived in stability, protected, reliable, and had a high reputation. the framework conditions for this development model are changing, however. the protective power has been withdrawn, the thawing arctic brings new challenges, opportunities, interested partners, but also desirability. the uninhibited action of the economic elite has also failed socially. so iceland is facing a self-examination and, as far as i know, is going to do so. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the question for icelandic citizens is: are we not losing more in the eu than outside, where we at least have the margin of self-determination? i can understand the icelandic response because the eu is not flexible enough and not interested in the experience of others in its own development interests.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. when europeans look at violent conflicts in africa, they often cite ethnic conflicts as the cause. it serves up common stereotypes, and it relieves us of responsibility. did the present military conflict come out of nowhere? that is what the opinion-forming media and somehow the debate in this house are trying to make us believe. it does not matter that the real reasons are the catastrophic economic situation, the extreme poverty and the unequal distribution of resources. the conflicts in south sudan are multi-layered struggles for power in a state which, after its forced secession by the west, is now dependent on the support of that very west. the fact that the main characters are from different ethnic groups is only a side effect. south sudan is an example of state-building based on the principle of external western planners, which at most takes into account the geostrategic and economic interests of western states, militarizes locally and strengthens elites who are concerned with their own interests. the people of south sudan, on the other hand, live in one of the poorest countries in the world, despite the oil wealth. to call this change greed, i think it's a bit cynical. the threat of an escalation of the conflict in the region and perhaps even internationally, it has the potential. that is why i call for an immediate halt to all arms transfers to south sudan and the region. the only way to resolve the conflict is to address its root causes.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i am not convinced that deepening our trade relations with mexico and chile is necessarily a big or a good step forward. we all know that the commission’s directorate-general for trade is already overwhelmed with the very different trade agreements we are negotiating in all corners of the world, not least the transatlantic trade and investment partnership. i believe that our current eu trade strategy is absolutely outdated. we should rethink it and ask what we want to get from trade. i would advocate a fair-trade strategy, for trade that is actually beneficial to people both in the european union and in our partner countries. we also have to realise that our trade statistics are totally outdated. they are basically at the level of the 19th century. read pascal lamy’s article from december, in which he argues that global value chains have replaced trade in final products. more than 60 % of trade is now intra-firm. do we have any answers to that? have we ever really thought about that in this house? has the commission thought about it? how does all the global trade interrelate? how is it all integrated? we should put human rights at the core of our relations and consider, for example, what is happening in mexico, where the drug war is causing huge problems of organised crime and illegal money flows. we ought to consider that before deepening our trade relations.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. the modernisation of trade agreements is understood by my group to mean increasing their benefits to society, joint action to strengthen the rights of workers, to promote environmental protection, to combat excesses and crime in the financial sector. when the trade commissioner speaks of modernisation, he means, first and foremost, the extension of liberalisation to all sectors of the economy and all walks of life. if the agreement with canada and the negotiating objectives with the united states are the blueprint for a 'modernization' of the agreement with mexico, then my group can only refuse to enter into such negotiations. consider that mexico today is deeply shaped by the power of organized crime, and tens of thousands of people have already died in a bloody civil war. and the results of nafta for mexico's economy should be thoroughly evaluated keywords: isds and dairy production. if you do not make progress in the negotiations with mercosur because of excessive demands from the eu side, my group cannot support you undermining the south american integration process with a major free trade agreement with chile. contrary to the neoliberal logic of the free trade agenda of the last century, we need today cooperation agreements for economic cooperation, social and environmental development that serve 21st century societies. this must be the mandate for future negotiations, hence the legitimate questions.
madam president, we are talking today about a policy for the homeless in europe and it is a positive move to have measures in countries affected by the crisis such as greece, where the phenomenon of homelessness is on the increase. i would like to draw attention to a danger that exists for the next few years. the first home in greece has been secured for just one year. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are not undermined. however, by 2015, there is a risk that if there is no new insurance for these people, we will have thousands of homeowners who will lose their homes and will be left, essentially, homeless. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would also like to take this opportunity, mr andor, to congratulate you once again on your attitude in the field of social rights and mobility in europe, particularly in the debate in germany.
a writer. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a position on the proposal for a directive. it may surprise you to learn that the transport committee is now taking the lead in environmental damage, but in this case it is marine damage caused by a tanker accident. the accident of the oil tanker erika, which caused a great deal of ecological damage in the sea, was the trigger. the commission's erika iii package followed, and it was right. but that doesn't include the environmental damage caused directly in the water by oil tankers. and that's what's driving us now. we want to have clean water - and this is also the responsibility of the transport committee - in the integrated maritime policy. we also want to make it possible for shipping to pass through. we have already decided that, as a preventive measure, all tankers will have to operate on two wheels in future, so that oil accidents of this kind will hopefully be rare or, if they do, perhaps not so frequent. however, when they do happen, you have to find a way to compensate. and who might the victim be? i 've been asked that by lawyers . who do you want to see as the victim when the environment is damaged? the environment can't complain. that too, of course, must be clarified. but i think the crucial point in this case - my colleague has already mentioned this - is that the environmental damage is not yet included. there is also no direct supplementary fund for environmental damage caused by oil affecting the sea. and we have the polluter's principle, we have also the right to an intact environment already regulated somewhere in the treaty. the key is now: it was just in france that justice was rendered for the erika accident, on september 25, 2012. the court of cassation has said that there is a purely ecological damage. this is something that needs to be addressed now, both at eu level - to consider whether we need to adapt our legislation - and at national level. it is a matter of international law because there are environmental rights all over the world. that is what we want to clarify now: how should we act? we should not just say that this judgment was passed in france and everything remains as it is. we must move forward and respond to this in the interests of a healthy marine environment!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is indisputable that freedom of movement - including the freedom to seek employment in another eu country - is one of the great achievements of the european union. we must defend this, because those who question this question question the very foundations of the european union. second, honesty is part of it. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote in the european parliament. they find work, they also find income for their family. social systems are a matter for the member states. we must therefore discuss this problem honestly and openly and also state honestly that if there are errors, they must be corrected. but if you look at the fine print, many of the deficits and shortcomings are in the member states themselves. that is why we should seek dialogue together and not point fingers at each other.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. when the first reports of 'purchase of european union citizenship possible' came through the ticker, i thought at first that the year was wrong. it's like a medieval story. in his day, you could buy the king's protection, and that was a normal deal. but then i really realized that this was not a joke, this was not a charming or a cabaret joke, this was serious. i must say very briefly and succinctly that malta must decide. either it really wants to remain a serious member of the european union, or it will eventually become a laughingstock. i'd put that in the denominator. my appeal to the government is to sleep on it, look at it carefully. because what you're doing here is not only unworthy, i could say, it's not even statesmanlike, you just don't do it!
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the situation of human rights defenders and oppositionists in cambodia and laos. the commission shall be assisted by the standing committee on plants, animals, food and feed.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, we welcome the adoption of an emergency resolution of parliament on the situation in cambodia and laos. regarding cambodia, in the run-up to the july parliamentary elections, the eu insisted on the importance of freedom of assembly and demonstration, as well as freedom of expression. immediately after the elections and after the decision of the opposition to boycott the national assembly, the eu appealed to all parties to act in a peaceful and democratic spirit and to find the most acceptable solution to the political deadlock. in the wake of the latest incidents on 2 and 3 january, the eu expressed its deep concern about the violent demonstrations and the excessive use of force, which resulted in the loss of lives. the eu delegation has closely monitored the situation of the opposition leaders, sam rainsy and kem sokha, and of the trade union representative, rong chhun, who were summoned to an interview with the prosecutor of the king on 14 january 2014, and who left free from the phnom penh court. the concern of the european parliament regarding their situation has already been raised with the cambodian minister of the interior. it is equally important for the political stability of cambodia that the fragile social dialogue in the garment sector and other sectors is restored. through its delegation in cambodia, the eu has been a prominent actor in facilitating the recent agreement between the cambodian government and the industry to renew an ilo-implemented programme for monitoring labour conditions in the garment industry. this ilo programme will include ‘naming and shaming’ those industries that are not compliant with minimum labour rights requirements. in addition, the eu is providing funds to strengthen the capacity of civil society organisations to monitor human and labour rights in cambodia. this includes specific support to trade unions for increasing their capacity to better engage with other stakeholders in industrial relations. the european union will continue to call for a peaceful settlement of the current political stalemate via a meaningful dialogue between the government of cambodia and the opposition. we very much welcome parliament’s continued commitment to laos and this urgency resolution. we share the human rights concerns expressed in the urgency resolution and we support its recommendations. in particular, the unexplained disappearance of mr sombath somphone in december 2012 is a matter which continues to cause great concern. the european external action service has systematically pursued this matter with the authorities of laos on many occasions and at all possible levels, including with the president. while laos has been open to some dialogue, the investigations have so far produced no result. offers, from different sides, of external support for investigating the case have been declined by the authorities. we want to see mr somphone again, and we will continue to work for this in close cooperation with eu member states and with parliament. we look forward to the early ratification by laos of the international convention for the protection of all persons from enforced disappearance. at the same time, we remain a privileged partner of laos, in that we have a regular and institutionalised human rights dialogue. the eu is the main donor in terms of assistance to good governance and human rights in laos. we have seen, over the last 12 years, some concrete results, in particular in terms of the ratification of core human rights conventions. we are committed to building further on this basis.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today after the third debate.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the recent elections in bangladesh. the commission shall be assisted by the standing committee on plants, animals, food and feed.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not one of the first major foreign policy conflicts that i followed as a young person was the breakup of pakistan, sheikh mujibur rahman, the independence of bangladesh. these were dramatic events, roughly parallel to the indochina war. unfortunately, the country has not really gotten off the ground until today. it's ruled and plundered by a few dynasties. it is brutally suppressed. it makes headlines primarily through poverty and terrible natural disasters. and it is only in the last ten years that we have succeeded, step by step, in building up a modest prosperity and paving a good path for this country in the future. but this good path will lead astray if it is not paved with democracy and the rule of law instead of propaganda. the country must indeed find democratic conditions if it is to have a future, including in the economic sphere. you can't outsource cheap labor to a prison, but only to a democracy if it's going to be sustainable.
in the catch-the-eye procedure, i have almost ten word messages, actually only two are provided. i regret that i will not be able to take into account those who have spoken in previous debates or will speak in subsequent debates. catch the eye
i would like to thank mr. migalski. i'm doing the best i can. but there are certain selection criteria that you have to take into account. the catch-the-eye procedure is also designed to give a chance to those who are not given the floor by their group very often or who are not given time to speak on a particular issue. therefore, one criterion is that, for example, not only speakers from one country are called. however, it is also a criterion if colleagues have already spoken before or are on the list of speakers afterwards, and in some cases have already been taken into account twice in other catch-the-eye procedures. we're just trying to make some arguments here. and if i have only two minutes, i have called three colleagues before that. i need some criteria. i'm doing my best, i can assure you. but no, we're not going to discuss that.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, we welcome the adoption of the parliament’s urgency resolution and we share your concerns about recent developments. the eu has been very active in the run-up to the elections, condemning the acts of violence which have occurred and urging all parties to engage in dialogue to ensure peaceful, transparent, inclusive and credible elections. we also expressed our readiness to send an eu election observation mission, subject to the security situation and the prospects for credible elections. i also must mention that our high representative, catherine ashton, met the foreign minister of bangladesh just recently. unfortunately, before the vote we witnessed an upsurge in violence, which caused a high number of deaths, much suffering and very substantial material damage. victims include women and children, as well as religious and ethnic minorities. regrettably, the main political parties failed to agree on conditions conducive to inclusive elections. the bangladesh nationalist party (bnp) decided to boycott the vote, while the awami league decided to go ahead and contest one-sided elections. in these circumstances, sending an eu election observation mission would not have been warranted. we thank mr kowal for his cooperation and hard work in the weeks leading up to the elections. the elections were marred by violence, and the turn-out was low. as a priority, we now call for an immediate end to the violence. we also reiterate our call for dialogue. we urge the leaders of the awami league and the bangladesh nationalist party to agree on a mutually-acceptable way forward and to hold transparent, inclusive and credible elections, putting the interests of the people of bangladesh first. we hope that, through genuine dialogue and a full democratic process, bangladesh can address the significant challenges it faces – political, social and economic – including challenges related to working conditions and factory safety. meanwhile, we will continue our engagement on the sustainability compact. we will continue to monitor closely the political and human rights situation and remain committed to supporting the democratic process in bangladesh.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the next debate. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the latest measures to criminalise lgbti people. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the eu shares the concerns expressed by parliament with regard to the violation of the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex (lgbti) people. as recent examples show, issues of gender identity and sexual orientation continue to be used as a pretext for serious human rights violations. lgbti people are still subject to persecution, discrimination, ill-treatment and violence in many parts of the world. around 80 states still criminalise same-sex adult relations, the latest example of a country introducing repressive anti-lgtbi legislation being nigeria. a number of states even impose the death penalty, and recently we have also seen worrisome examples of re-criminalising consensual same-sex relationships between adults. we want to be clear: this is incompatible with international human rights law and we have an obligation to act on it. it also applies to laws that criminalise public discussion and/or expression of homosexuality. these are an unacceptable limitation to the freedom of expression, association and assembly. as you know, on 24 june 2013 the council adopted guidelines to promote and protect the enjoyment of all human rights by lgbti persons. these are at the core of our human rights policies and provide different tools as part of the eu’s external action, such as procedures by eu delegations and statements by the high representative/vice-president including, for example, in june on the adoption of the ‘anti-propaganda law’ in russia, in december on the ruling of india’s supreme court re-criminalising homosexual acts, on 20 december on the anti-homosexuality bill in uganda, and yesterday on the signature of the same-sex marriage bill in nigeria. lgbti rights are also raised in political and human rights dialogues with third countries, including russia and nigeria, and we continue to support civil society, also through the european instrument for democracy and human rights. a new eur 5 million call for proposals to promote and protect lgbti persons’ rights was launched in august 2013 and will be concluded in 2014. we are well aware that the promotion of human rights on the grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity can lead to sensitive discussions and tensions in our relations with third countries. however, this does not justify silence where one should speak out, and we will not stay silent. with regard to the suspension of article 96 of the cotonou agreement, i think the commission’s position at this moment is that we should explore all other possible ways of influencing developments before coming to very-last-resort and nuclear options.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is a fundamental problem here: my group has tabled an excellent alternative motion for a resolution and has not taken part in the joint motion for a resolution. but it's not in the records at all, and it's not translated. it is true that it has been a sad practice for some time now, when there are joint motions for resolutions, which all sign, that the original texts are no longer there. but if one group of members introduces the original texts into a joint motion for a resolution and the other does not, then the plenary must be able to decide whether it wants to support this text or that. i therefore ask that in future, if one group does not participate in the joint text, the original text of the other group which considers its own text to be better be translated in full in the documents.
thank you very much, mr posselt. we'll take that under advisement. i think you're right, too. we shall put this into practice in such a way that if there are texts which have not been signed by all the political groups, the alternative motions for resolutions will be fully dealt with during the sitting. i would like to point out that mr posselt did not use his speech as an opportunity to postpone the vote, which he could have done. we may owe him for that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if you are so interested in this, the epp group will certainly do its utmost to ensure that you receive the text in due course. before the vote on paragraph 14:
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 4.35 p.m.)
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i want to read something to you . i thought things would be easier in the european union. that's not true of marriage. this is from an article in a newspaper in my hometown of dortmund last year, which reports on the problems of a young man who was born in romania and moved to dortmund as a child with his parents, which he had when he wanted to marry years later, not as a child, but as a young man. that's nice, but that's where the trouble started. not because he didn't have a girlfriend or because she was a problem. that's supposed to happen. no, the bureaucracy was a problem. the young man actually presented everything, he presented an original birth certificate, but that was not enough for the bureaucrats. there was this missing, there was that missing, then an apostille missing some kind of bureaucratic device, which i also heard about for the first time when i read about it. but these, ladies and gentlemen, are problems which concern most of us, because these are the areas where citizens - our voters - come to us often enough for help. these are the senseless bureaucratic heaps that are not needed, that we should not have in a common europe where we no longer have and no longer want to have borders. that is why we - i remind the house - asked the commission a few years ago, at the beginning of the legislative period, to come forward with a proposal on how to reduce this bureaucratic nonsense. the commission has done that, it has put forward a proposal. now you could actually say, common sense says, we're going through this now, we can decide this now. that's what i thought at first, and so did a lot of other people. but no, that was not the case, because suddenly the bureaucrats who were assembled started raising their objections. the main suspects in the national ministerial bureaucracies, in the relevant professional associations, all those who have predicted the downfall of the bureaucratic west, are precisely those who always point the finger at europe when it comes to bureaucracy, but are themselves the real causes of bureaucracy. that is why i am staying with it and we should stay with it, and that is what we decided in the committee by a very large majority: we want a regulation whose objective is to ensure that public authorities accept public documents presented to them by authorities of another member state or by eu authorities without legalisation or apostille. four points to make. firstly, it is not at all a question of recognising the legal effect of certain public documents, but only of accepting documents, that is to say, of recognising the authenticity of certain public documents. secondly, the authorities may require that certain public documents relating to the ownership of land, the legal form and representation of a company or other enterprise, the legal form and representation of other legal persons be submitted together with a certified translation thereof in order to satisfy all stakeholders. thirdly, we want multilingual forms for the eu. that is what is really important, and it is also a key element of the proposal: the creation of multilingual forms. the issue of multilingual forms is simply to circumvent the problem of translation in a form similar to that already known in the case of e-forms for social security purposes. fourthly, administrative cooperation. in order to avoid possible fraud attempts, the internal market information system is used for the administrative assistance. this is a system we know, which is already being used in the economic field. it allows the authority of a host member state to ask the authorities of the issuing member state for assistance in case of doubt. the authority which issued the document is thus enabled to confirm to the receiving authority the authenticity and the probative value of the document - a new line we have in it. these are the main points which can also be raised against the parties concerned. that is a sensible thing that has been proposed and that we should decide here. unfortunately, the council and its bureaucratically dominated staff are still not prepared to enter into negotiations on this matter. that is why we must conclude the first reading here tomorrow, so that we can bring this to a proper conclusion during this parliamentary term. i would like to thank the staff and the committee colleagues who made sure that we reached this decision by a very large majority, 23 votes for and one against, in the context of a good compromise. we should do the same in plenary tomorrow. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the rapporteur, in reply to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. - so first of all, you weren't paying attention. secondly, you have not read the proposal: it is not about the content, it is about the formal recognition of the certificate itself. in that respect, your question is completely empty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but that is not the subject of this discussion. this should be discussed if such a proposal is made.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the free movement of documents across borders between member states has been at the heart of the programme for an area of freedom, security and justice. we wanted to make it easier for the citizens. i have to say, though, i don't agree with the outcome. the legislative procedure is of course not a problem here as regards civil status documents, i.e. birth certificates, marriage certificates, death certificates, etc. the rapporteur has, however, irresponsibly extended the scope of the directive on several points. the fact is that there are quite different documents in the different member states. there are member states where some documents do not exist at all, whereas others do. the legal effects of the instruments are different, that is to say, they have very different substantive or formal legal effects. this is why the commission has put forward this proposal so late only in spring 2013 because the details are very complicated. i regret that the scope of application has now been extended to such an extent that the member states are unable to vote in the council and that we will only vote tomorrow and then it is time to say: the sea is still. i would have welcomed it if we had limited ourselves to what was possible and then got the council's approval for it, at least for the multilingual documents. i am not saying that europe is necessary for that. for example, i have a multilingual marriage certificate, which i could apply for quite normally in germany and which i also received there. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's citizens are able to obtain the necessary documents, and i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a few more details. i have therefore tabled amendments, together with some christian democrats. the very controversial issues concern, on the one hand, the acquisition of land ownership - and you have to see that as a citizen you do not buy a new house every day - and on the other hand, company law. these documents are sometimes 20 pages long, sometimes over 100 pages long, and - and i say this to my socialist colleague - if i, as a notary, have a document in romanian, bulgarian or any other language, i cannot judge at all whether the translation presented to me is correct or not, because i do not know a single tone in those languages. i mean, i don't even know if i should ask for a certified translation or not. i therefore ask you to support these amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. the simplification of the recognition of public documents in the european union is an objective that must of course be supported. i would also like to thank mr rapkay personally, who has been working for us in this parliament on this subject, not only today and in connection with this dossier, but for many years. i couldn't agree more. but i think that in the many examples which the honourable members have just given - mr mészáros rightly referred to the marriage of union citizens who come from different member states - there should be no obstacles or impediments. i'm all for the legalization of the kind we have is just too burdensome and that we need to make it easier for our people back home. but i would also like to ask for your understanding of the amendment which i tabled with mrs thein and mrs češková, the czech member of parliament. i don't think we should shoot over the target. if we restrict ourselves to register extracts in the proposal - which includes all marriage certificates, birth certificates, certificates issued on the basis of the commercial register or the land register - then a large proportion of public documents in the european union would already be covered by the proposal and we would have the relief of that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i just don't feel good about this going too far. let us take the first step and record the extracts under these simplifications. but don't throw the baby out with the bath. that's my wish. i therefore ask for support for the amendments which i have tabled with my two colleagues in the vote tomorrow. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you very much, mrs lulling, for the question. there will be different answers depending on who you ask. i fear that a great deal of legal certainty has been compromised, that there will be more counterfeiting. at least it will make it easier to forge documents. but if you ask mr rapkay - and i am sure he will say so again at the end - he will tell you that he does not take this risk for granted. that's also a matter of judgment. my proposal was to say that we should restrict the scope to the extracts from the register. that's within the realm of what you can represent well. i think that all other public documents, as defined in the proposal, are too broad. but it's a matter of judgment. no one knows how it will work in practice. i'm the only one who has reservations.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to go. so if the commissioner has quite rightly said that the commission cannot accept the amendment - it is the only one - then i can only agree with her. i can't take it either. i shall therefore recommend that it be rejected. the amendment does not lead to more security, as the applicants claim, but rather to less security. the objection of the czech ecr colleague has made it clear where the problem really lies. she relied on the fact that the czech chamber of notaries had approached her. i was, of course, approached by the german chamber of notaries. mr cofferati may have been approached by the italian chamber of notaries. this is about helping people, not about supporting and securing a business model of notary boards and notaries. this is always seen through a nation-state lens. but this is a classic european case, so it must be seen through european eyes. and those who have raised an objection here do not. i would like to say to mrs thein: mrs thein, i take it as an honour to say that i have irresponsibly widened the scope of my powers. i want to point out that i made the leaflet, i drafted the report. what is presented here is the result of the discussion and vote of the legal affairs committee. well, if it was, it would have been the judiciary committee, not me. but that was adopted by a large majority. and even mrs thein has agreed to this compromise. i do not know whether mrs niebler agreed to this, because i do not know whether she was present. but mrs thein was present at the vote. i can only say to those who keep bringing the same complaints what i said before about the blue card: reading is education! reading is a way of life. you should just read what we decided. because if you read this, you know that we have removed these very concerns, as far as the real estate business is concerned, as far as the real estate law and the corporate law are concerned. we have not taken it out of the scope altogether, and there is no reason at all. but of course, certified translations can still be submitted. so if mrs thein is to work as a notary again in the future, she can check the documents - wherever they come from - in her native language, german. we just took out this exact spot. i would have gone a little further. that's not a question. but that was a compromise, and we reached it with a huge majority. i do not know why we are re-opening the compromise just because some chambers of notaries and some bureaucrats from the ministries are objecting to it. thein pointed out - and i would like to say this in conclusion - that the member states cannot be involved in all this now. yes, it's perfectly clear. the negotiators are not the ones who are involved in politics, but bureaucrats. these are the bureaucrats in the ministries, these are the bureaucrats elsewhere. and it's no wonder to me that they're rejecting it. but that is not the standard for us as elected representatives. the criterion for us as elected representatives is that we work in the interests of the citizens and decide in the interests of the citizens. and that's how we should do it tomorrow!
in writing. simpler and more efficient rules for businesses are of course desirable. but if that means abolishing safety and health regulations at the workplace, that is going too far. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted. the commission is proposing to abolish the right to health and safety at work, the right to information and consultation and the right to social dialogue. the eu is also seeking to undermine data protection and consumer rights. that cannot and must not be. fundamental rights apply to all workers, including those employed in enterprises with fewer than 250 employees.
i have to say, madam president, first of all, thank you, ulrike, for your courageous report. it comes at the right time and proves that human rights are not special rights, but they govern our lives and on the basis that all people are equal. i think that if this parliament has ever made an important contribution to the development of european civilization, it has done so in this field. i support the report because it is against discrimination against people who live differently, that is, two men or two women, or who live in a different way, and it is for an end to this discrimination. i support the report because it condemns hate speech against people. i support him because he calls for equality and in reality and because he follows the normal life, which is that everyone can live as they want, and that this is normal and does not require a question. and because this report is about what is considered to be the dignity of the human being, and it says this and puts it at the centre. so thank you again, and we will keep fighting!
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, and mr commissioner, very honourable. in times of rising energy prices, climate change and socioeconomic challenges, all regions are looking for ways to ensure a reliable energy supply. one that is affordable to the public. the committee of the regions commissioned a study on this matter. and these have uncovered amazing success stories. some regions - including those with weak structures - have discovered their renewable energy sources in the energy transition, despite the commission's zigzagging course. they built it up and they've gone from being energy consumers to energy providers. in this way, islands have been able to break free from dependence on the mainland, offer their citizens stable energy prices and supply the mainland with their energy. these regions developed intelligent systems for energy consumption and energy saving. these concepts vary widely from one region to another. but they share some principles. the success of the project is based on transparency and cooperation between local authorities, industry and citizens. everyone is involved in the planning. the citizens' own initiatives are encouraged. energy cooperatives and citizen solar installations are supported. and these concepts won because they were cross-sectoral, for example, they involved transport and housing. however, in practice, these concepts have had to overcome enormous obstacles, and this has not been easy. where energy is produced, consumed and stored in the same place, electricity must be able to flow in both directions. the investment needs in such intelligent systems are enormous. or: if you're building an intelligent energy system based on end-user data, you really need to protect data and privacy, and you need to ensure that to the citizens. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data protection rules are applied in the member states. the fundamental right of citizens to the protection of their personal data takes precedence. so citizens have to decide for themselves whether or not to participate in the system and share their data. and they need to be sure that this data is not being misused or shared with third parties. only then will such intelligent energy systems succeed. we must also note that the commission's recent decisions have been rather obstructive to such future concepts of local and regional development. for example, there are no future strategies for the promotion of renewable energy in the commission. the commission's return to the fossil age is hampering the regions in creating the necessary investment climate. or the commission's strict and unilateral sectoral policy in aid procedures stifles cross-sectoral approaches in the first place. i believe that there is an urgent need to change course and to promote intelligent energy systems, which are key to modern climate policy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left behind. i hope that this report will help the commission to finally make the necessary change of course!
in writing. i am very pleased with the package of measures which the european parliament intends to propose in this own-initiative report. it is estimated that half of all farms are small farms ensuring the sustainability and viability of these farms is therefore a key to slowing down demographic change in rural areas. this is all the more true in the new member states in the south, where such establishments are overwhelmingly present. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. we need clear eu objectives to ensure that these farms develop positively. the present own-initiative report provides a good basis for this and we should all vote in favour of it. thank you very much.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs gallo, who has brought a really complex report to a close after a long process. you have found acceptable compromises in the negotiations on many problems. and yet, from the point of view of the committee on international trade, i would like to address some of the controversial points which are now left to the member states to interpret rather than to develop a uniform approach throughout the eu. first, there is the issue of transparency. i would have liked to see more information available to authors. the new directive will nevertheless improve the situation of creatives in the digital age. they'll get their income, their money, faster in the future. the committee of the regions considers that the future role of the major music companies and the global marketing structures and platforms created by them in the united states remains a problem. in another provision, you left it to the member states to decide whether they wanted to subject non-european suppliers - and these are the ones - to the same rules as will now apply to european suppliers with the directive. any member state which fails to do so may become a gateway for direct processors, which could lead to significant revenue losses. finally, the issue of offshoring. the commission will be able to take account of the new rules in the future, and will be able to take account of the new rules in the future.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. - mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the transparency reform of collecting societies has become necessary because of the corruption in some countries. the recovery companies have not adapted adequately to the digital transformation and there was a lack of democratic participation. the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the members should have more rights in the self-management of collecting societies and all members should have voting rights. the artists should be able to choose freely between collecting societies, especially those which are transnational, so that they can choose the best offers, which in turn puts pressure on the special performance of collecting societies. it was particularly important to us that the payment be made very quickly, preferably immediately, but at the latest three months after the end of the financial year. the new rules will allow for more territorial licences, making it easier to offer online music services in the european single market. this will lead to more legal offers and to more cultural diversity for consumers, because artists from small countries can also join large digital collecting societies and their repertoire will be offered. it was very important to us that there should also be non-commercial licenses, that the exploitation companies should open up. and collecting societies and private agencies are subject to the same transparency rules, so there will be fair competition here.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. unfortunately, with the directive we have again made only a small step forward in the reform of copyright. we can live with the bargain, and we can celebrate small progress. many of these have been mentioned here. but what we still lack is the big leap in copyright reform. we all hoped that the commission would be a little more involved in this area during the current parliamentary term. after four years, the commission has finally put forward a consultation. i find it totally unacceptable that this consultation is, for the first time, only available in english, especially now that we know that copyright is a subject of wide-ranging social debate. in this respect, it is not possible in a multilingual europe in this form. i expect the new commission to finally be ready and willing to start by providing legal clarity on precisely those fundamental issues raised in the consultation. if we can finally find a compromise between the interests of users, fair remuneration and flexible use, then we can once again turn our attention to the details with the same passion as we have done in the past years.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, i would like to express my satisfaction that, with this dossier, and with such broad agreement - certainly also thanks to the good and constructive cooperation between the various committees, as mrs gallo has shown - we have been able to improve the commission's draft significantly and to formulate clear, understandable rules which have put the system of collective enforcement in europe on a new and, above all, sustainable footing. as promoters of the diversity of cultural expressions, collecting societies play a very important role and should continue to do so, as they also provide market access to the smallest and least popular repertoires and provide both social, cultural and educational services in the interests of rightholders and the public. and this is an important asset. what we have achieved with this directive is that we have created more transparency for all collective management organisations in europe and, if the member states so decide, beyond, and above all a better situation in the internal relationship between collective management organisations and the artists and authors of the works. the collecting societies will soon have to work in a much more transparent way. membership supervision and cross-border licensing of copyright in musical works will be significantly improved and the position of european authors will be strengthened in this area. it was an important concern to us that the proposal for a directive should strike a balance between the requirements for collecting societies and users alike. i would like to make one point here. the new rules will require collecting societies to pay royalties to rightholders more quickly and in accordance with certain rules, and users to provide information on their use to collecting societies more quickly. the work has been done not in one direction but in both. and that creates trust and transparency and a way to give artists the income they need to continue to create new content on a permanent basis. the new rules also require collecting societies to be more efficient and to respond to user requests within 90 days. this is important to allow for faster licensing of new impulses, new business models and new services emerging online and offline , thus enabling better responsiveness and also expanding the market. i also think it is important that the applicability of the services directive to collective management organisations has been deleted from the proposal for a directive. the express reference is gone. in the long term, the freedoms granted by the services directive would have led to domestic discrimination and, possibly, to competitive disadvantages for domestic collecting societies in member states where the regulations are stricter than those laid down in the directive. i am therefore glad that this explicit reference has been made. we have created so much transparency in the composition of the general assembly, but also in many other areas, that we can speak of a balanced draft, and i am grateful for that. i see this as a first step. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the rights of the individual are protected.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. in the course of globalisation, financial markets have become increasingly interconnected. we know that. and so it's clear that what happens in one market has an impact on all the other financial markets. that applies to both the positive and the negative. the negative we are dealing with in this directive is not a delicte of chivalry. market manipulation and insider trading are criminal schemes and must be clearly addressed as such. unfortunately, both types of offences did not end with the outbreak of the global financial crisis, but on the contrary, there is hardly a quarter in which we do not hear about new scandals. so far, there is - as arlene has made clear - no uniform approach in europe to prosecute these criminal schemes. some countries have no sanction mechanisms, in some countries they are only dealt with administratively. in this respect, there are great differences in the european union - something that should not be! because where we have global markets, we need global rules, otherwise we don't have fair competition. i welcome, as do all my colleagues, the fact that we have now reached a common approach. it's not yet, shall we say, ideal, but it's a big step forward. it's good we have minimum sentences. i wish we could have gone one step further and done what is common in america: actually suspended for life for gross misconduct. but at least we have managed to ensure that criminals do not choose the country where the threat of punishment is least to carry out their activities. what we are deciding today is a major step towards actually completing the internal market in this area and, above all, towards giving citizens the feeling that we are working to restore their lost confidence!
mr napolitano, mr giorgio, welcome back to the european parliament. it is a real pleasure and honour to have you here today in the european parliament of european democracy, which you have helped to strengthen with your vision, your experience and your ideas. its contribution is, and has been over the years, a source of stability and energy not only for italy but also for europe. in his work he continued the tradition of noble italian europeanism that goes from de gasperi to spinelli. this europeanism has been a driving force behind the european project. not only as president of the republic, but also throughout his political life, he worked to heal the divisions that cross italian and european society, with patience, dedication, creativity and style. this was your contribution to strengthening the unity and sense of direction of the country, sheltering it from the winds of populism which unfortunately continue to blow, to protecting the italian constitution and advancing european integration. last year he was voted in and accepted a new term as president of the republic. this is another example of his unselfishness and dedication to this cause. i have no sympathy for those who violently and vulgarly criticize you with the sole aim of increasing their visibility and throwing the country into chaos. in his year-end speech he quoted, among other things, a message from veronica, a 28-year-old girl from empoli. veronica graduated at great cost. he's been looking for a job for three years. veronica feels that the current crisis is actually a crisis of the ability to arouse enthusiasm in young people. he concludes: i still believe in italy, but does italy still believe in me? i was asked the same question during my visit. i still believe in europe, but does europe still believe in me? i think it is our job as politicians to say yes to veronica and to the millions of other europeans who are asking the same question. thank you, george, for being here today, for being part of this answer. welcome, president of the republic.
we have these little interludes to cheer us up sometimes. you may now proceed, mr president. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the aim of the proposal was to facilitate the free movement of public documents within the european union and thus to achieve a general simplification of the procedure. of course, what sounds good must also be practical. as much as we can understand this, the rapporteur has given an example in the plenary debate, whereby if someone wants to marry, if a marriage is to take place between two eu citizens, he must present birth certificates, which then of course have to be translated and approved. but we must also ensure that there is legal certainty in these procedures, that the person who reads the document can be sure that, firstly, it is a real, genuine document and, secondly, that he must also know the content of that document. that is, content and authenticity must be traceable. i have come to the conclusion that this was not sufficiently stated in this report and i have therefore unfortunately had to vote against it. i think that this is a very legitimate and necessary request.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the aim is to simplify legislation in order to bring it into line with the globally harmonised system (ghs). the essential point is that we have a labelling system for dangerous substances which is understood, of course, in the european union, but also worldwide. i think that the groups have found a good compromise here, and i was happy to agree with it.
in accordance with rule 87a (6), the chair of the conference of committee chairs has informed me that no objection has been raised to a recommendation by the committee on the environment for an implementing measure. the recommendation shall be deemed to have been adopted if neither a political group nor at least 40 members express their opposition to it within 24 hours; in that case, the recommendation concerned shall be put to the vote. the recommendation is available on the website of the séance en direct.
i am sure that your group will be able to give you a written answer.
the next item is the debate on the report by elisa ferreira, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing uniform rules and a uniform procedure for the resolution of credit institutions and certain investment firms in the framework of a single resolution mechanism and a single resolution fund and amending regulation (eu) no 1093/2012 of the european parliament and of the council (com (((2013) 0520 - c7-0223/2013 - 2013/0253 ((cod)) (a7-0478/2013).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i think we all agree on the importance of this - and this is what unites us - of completing the banking union and therefore taking responsibility for this piece of legislation now being put in place. but at the same time, it's clear that the system has to work and it has to be legal. the rule of law cannot be simply removed by a reference to realism. but first, on the substance: i think there are two very important points which are not in the council's proposal as it stands. the first is that for ten years national sub-funds are to be continued, which are also pro-cyclical. the moment a bank fails in one country, the other banks are put under more pressure, and then the government of that country may have to step in. this is the continuation of austerity for ten years, and that austerity comes from the banking sector. the second point which is also not acceptable is that the council now plays a central role in the decision-making structure, which makes it doubtful whether the council will ever decide to wind up a really important bank. i think we have to fight hard on these issues. the commissioner has just made proposals which are going in the right direction. but the question is, at what table is the negotiation taking place? and here the council has done something we have never seen before: the commission has put forward a proposal and said that the right legal basis is already in the treaty, and the council has simply said, no, we are opening another negotiating table with a different composition, where there are more partners from the member states, less from parliament. it is a parallel negotiation and it is simply claimed that article 114 is not the correct legal basis because some member states think that the legal basis is not sufficient. this is contrary to the principle of loyalty to the union and it is also contrary to the principle of loyalty to cooperation between the institutions! this means that the commission, as guardian of the treaties, is being asked to refer the matter back to the area of loyal cooperation and the union approach. i therefore ask you, commissioner, to defend the treaties and not simply to say, with a reference to realism, that we must now accept this intergovernmental agreement! i would urge the council to explain at last why there are compelling reasons why this interinstitutional agreement is necessary. without these compelling reasons, you cannot go against eu law, but must accept the legal basis in the treaty.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not first of all, i would like to express to elisa all my good wishes and wishes for her recovery, also on behalf of my whole group. i am not going to go into detail. the real problem is that the financial industry has grown beyond a socially healthy level and can drive entire countries into ruin. the point is that we want to prevent and interrupt that. the citizens are forced to play along with the monopoly of the banks. the devastating consequences are not confined to the problem countries which we visited recently with an econ delegation. i think that the debate today misses the point of this fundamental problem, which is to finally put an end to the 'too big to fail' approach. instead of finally reducing the financial sector to its core function, we are arguing about far too complicated settlement mechanisms. the council's position is particularly problematic in that it is not really able to resolve banks that have fallen into a bad situation in the short term and to avoid new crises because of the far too complex decision-making processes. in addition, the massive economic imbalances will continue to increase in favour of the strong member states, as the council is clearly unwilling to establish effective community instruments such as a sufficiently equipped resolution fund to benefit all member states. instead, bizarre auxiliary structures such as the so-called compartments are used to circumvent the urgently needed distribution of the load. we are not against a banking union. we think they are necessary. but a banking union must be able to do what ... (the president withdrew the floor)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. at the end of last year, the completion of the banking union looked promising: in a very short time, we had a common banking supervision and, just before christmas, agreed on europe-wide rules for more protection of savings and the resolution of failing banks. the mammoth project of a european banking union seemed to be on the right track. but today, for me, the heart of the crisis management is hanging in the balance: because the council is cutting us - the representatives of the citizens of europe - off from our parliamentary duties: first with the unilateral agreement of the eu finance ministers to settle the details of the financing of the joint resolution fund bypassing parliament in an intergovernmental treaty, and now with the lack of willingness, in my view, to negotiate this with us in a trilogue. for me, this is more than a drop of wormwood. this is an affront to this house and thus to the citizens of europe! the council's approach is another setback for me in the process of achieving more parliamentary democracy in the european union. it was a path we all walked together. we have moved away from this for the first time with the fiscal pact. we cannot open a door at this point which will lead us, at the next best opportunity, back to a situation where we are bowing to what seems necessary, but at the expense of what generations of members of parliament before us have built here. we are not the council's executive assistants, we are co-legislators! if we want to achieve a good form of cooperation here, not just today but beyond that day, which also constructively accompanies the banking union in its implementation, it is high time that the council dealt with parliament's objections here in a better and more substantial way. it is high time that we addressed the various criticisms of substance, such as the question of who is really in charge here. commissioner barnier has said it quite rightly: the commission would be the appropriate institution to push the button here, not the member states. if we get there, we have a good chance, otherwise it will be a step backwards for democracy in europe. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8))
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr peter simon, i have a question. you have positioned yourself very well here, very clearly. but you know where all this comes from: from the grand coalition in berlin and the greek presidency of the council, which, curiously enough, now has to represent the german position. i'd like to know what you're doing to change the line in berlin.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. mr giegold, i would recommend that you read the letter to this effect from our group's vice-chairman, mr carsten schneider, which has been received by you. if you read this, all your questions will be answered.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we could have had this debate sooner. my application to econ has been rejected. i think it is necessary for the plenary to take the decisions on the basis of which we negotiate with the council. point one. secondly, the banking union and the fund need a sound legal basis. it is not a question of berlin or brussels, mr lamberts, but simply of consistency. and neither article 127 (6), which divides europe into the eurozone and the rest, nor article 114 are, in my view, sufficient to ensure legal certainty in the event of a conflict. and so i am grateful that commissioner barnier has made an offer to look for new ways of setting up this fund, on the basis of the council decision and the parliament's dissenting vote. on governance, whether we decide this together: who in this house really believes that the european commission is more capable of action than the council? let's take the case of greece. on 8 and 9 may 2010, the ecofin council was able to rescue greece within a day and a half. or if we look at the case of the spanish banks, it was possible to solve the problem with the help of the spanish government. and if the old dexia case is on the table, then the question is not whether this can be solved by the complicated mechanism, yes or no, but whether the liability for the unpaid bank levy cannot be shared. and there is a constitutional court ruling pending in germany. if you want this to fail, you've got to push it to the top!
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not mrs hübner, you were one of the few colleagues who were present yesterday when we held the hearing of mrs lautenschläger as a member of the ecb's executive board and then voted. am i correct in assuming that you would rate mrs lautenschläger's answers as highly as i do? the commission has said that there are legal concerns and that the ecb wants to carry out a stress test beforehand so that it does not have to take responsibility for a bank resolution that it cannot handle alone. do you agree that that was the reason?
member of the commission. - mr president, i thank the members for speaking out frankly and clearly, because it is time, in the coming days and weeks, to move forward. mrs goulard, mr simon, mr giegold, mr langen and mr pallone, and mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou, have just raised the question of the legal debate again, in view of the use which the council has wished to make of this intergovernmental agreement. i explained this in my opening statement; you know how i feel about that. i have said this to the council and you know that the commission has made its proposal on the basis of the instrument of article 114 of the treaty, which i am convinced is the right basis. the council wishes to conclude an intergovernmental agreement; i have explained myself to you on this point during the council's discussions. i also said, because that is the analysis of our legal services, that if we strictly limit the scope of this intergovernmental agreement, it is not contrary to the treaties. so here we are. later on, more or less content can be added to the word "realism". i don't think that's a bad word. i 'm being realistic . i note the council's position as expressed by all the finance ministers and as recalled by prime minister venizelos. now we have to work realistically. the council must also be realistic, as mrs sharon bowles has recommended, to take parliament into account and respect it. it is therefore necessary to be realistic in two ways. i'm in the middle to try to foster a rapprochement. mrs wortmann-kool, you have been talking about efficiency and operationality from day one, you said. i share your sentiment, particularly by providing this mechanism with mutual financial resources as quickly as possible. mrs wortmann-kool, you know that the commission proposed that this pooling should take place from day one. the proposals i have just made are also useful elements, in my view, to speed up the process of pooling. marianne thyssen also touched on the issue of the decision-making process, which is a key element because it is an element - as corien wortmann-kool said - of the credibility of what we do, for it to work and also for the markets. i would also like to remind members, and i say this to the council, of the relative stability and greater calm - i say this with caution - on the markets, even though we were in a state of great turbulence. this improved serenity, this relative calm, was born in the aftermath of the european council of 29 june 2012, precisely at the time when european leaders raised the idea of a banking union. in other words, a real revolution in the way the situation of the 6,000 banks in the euro area is supervised and resolved. we must not forget the importance and credibility of this proposal, since it is now in our hands. that is why i have worked very hard on it, including first on the supervision and now, with you, on the resolution. marianne thyssen spoke about the credibility of the decision-making process in order for the resolution system to be effective and play its full role. i think there is room for improvement on this point compared with the council's proposal. i agree with constance le grip and peter simon on the question of democratic control, the action of the resolution council and the appointment of its leaders, taking into account, of course - you will agree - the need for confidentiality in certain matters to be dealt with in this context. pervenche berès rightly recalled the overall approach to banking union, which naturally also focuses on strengthening banks and on the establishment of a deposit guarantee system; all these subjects we have dealt with together and which are part of this new landscape. i spoke earlier of a new era in the european banking sector. yes, we are learning lessons and this morning you did so by a massive vote on the question of market abuse. we are completing the overall architecture so that the banking sector in particular, and the financial markets in general, are more robust, more solid, more transparent, that there is also some morality in it and that the taxpayers are preserved. mrs hübner, i would like to raise an important issue concerning the countries which are not or have not yet become members of the euro area. i think that this system must be open and we have achieved this together in the framework of supervision. i think the same principle should apply to the resolution mechanism. mr klute and mr morganti referred to the establishment of the single resolution mechanism, saying that it does not necessarily allow for the automatic resolution of all problems in the financial sector. i'm with you on that. it's one of the elements of architecture. mr klute, you mentioned the situation of the very large banks, which i said a few days ago were too big to fail, too complex to be resolved and too expensive to be rescued with public funds. i have not forgotten, and i would like to know why, the case of these 30 banks, which are very large and most of which have a balance sheet equivalent to that of the member state in which they are mainly established. we can see what might happen if one of these banks, just one, were to have major difficulties in relation to the systemic issues and effects on the single market as a whole. that is why, because it is the single market, i proposed this text last week on behalf of the european commission on the structure of the banks, of the thirty large banks, because national laws cannot deal with a european issue of this magnitude. it is a european framework that i propose to build with you and i hope, while being aware of the european elections, that your parliament can start working on this text on the reform of banking structures as soon as possible. i would like to conclude by referring to what president sharon bowles said, that the important thing - if i understand correctly - was not so much the time-limit as the quality of the text. i think that the quality of the text, its credibility and its functionality are very important. i think, however, that in view of the spirit of openness and availability which you have shown, and which the council has shown, through the greek deputy prime minister and ecofin last week, that it is possible, within a very short time frame of a few weeks - we have all the elements in our hands - to reach a credible and dynamic compromise on this text and a compromise of quality, as many of you have asked for. finally, mrs podimata and mr feio were right to recall the starting point of our approach, which is the fragmentation of the single market and the great differences in the cost and financing of the economy. i have had the opportunity to explain the differences between a company applying for a loan in germany, italy, spain or greece. it is not normal in the same market to have such different responses to the same project, with such different interest rates. this is the starting point. for the last four years we have been building, stone by stone, piece by piece, the elements of a better coherence of this single market, in particular the financial market; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the projects. that's what we want to correct. finally, mr domenici quoted the aeneid earlier in his speech. i was sensitive, as mr venizelos was no doubt, to this reference. he quoted aeneid to scare the greeks into giving. i prefer, mr domenici, to retain the tireless energy of his hero to find solutions and establish the right institutions.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - i know . mr president, i have listened carefully to the remarks of the honourable members of the european parliament and i must say that, despite the points of sharp and sharp criticism, i leave the sitting with a feeling of optimism because i believe that we are very close to reaching a practical compromise. i would like to thank commissioner barnier for his enormous contribution to the effort to establish banking union and i would like, in particular, to thank him for the documented and responsible realism he has expressed here on behalf of the european commission. the greek presidency is the institutional expression of the council's united position. the council is of course always very much intergovernmental in nature, because it has to take account of the intergovernmental balance of power, regardless of the procedure followed under the treaties. i am of course representing, as a greek minister, a country which is at the centre of the crisis, which is the laboratory of the crisis, and therefore our speech is also experiential. i would therefore like to say to those who have previously observed that we do not represent or should not represent the german government that we cannot accept lessons in negotiations with germany. we have been and are negotiating very hard to deal with the acute phase of the eurozone crisis. the banking union will allow us to break the vicious circle between financial and fiscal crisis. in recent years we have all been experiencing this recycling of the crisis in the european economy. the financial crisis is turning into a fiscal crisis and the fiscal crisis is again fuelling the financial crisis, but we are now given a very important opportunity to get the situation under control and to prevent a recurrence of this crisis. i understand the institutional sensitivities of members of the european parliament, but for years now the eurogroup has been handling issues of banking supervision and resolution without there being in fact any comprehensive and transparent institutional framework and without there being any meaningful involvement of the european parliament. we can now take a very important immediate step without running into national constitutional sensitivities which would invalidate a single resolution mechanism if its legal basis were purely community, without taking into account the intergovernmental dimension. we would have the illusion that we have a mechanism but then the national constitutional courts would come along and actually set up that mechanism. so it is very important that we establish the conditions for a compromise, and i believe that is what has happened in today's debate. the council is well aware that the intergovernmental method is disliked by parliament and that it is, in any case, a complementary and auxiliary method, but we are dealing here with a situation where this method must be used. on the other hand, the way is wide open for the european parliament to participate and contribute substantially to the formation of the fund of the administration mechanism of the entire institutional framework. the historic and fateful question in the european union has always been, as you know, who pays and who benefits in relation to who pays. we are experiencing this problem in relation to the same resources. we have seen this problem in relation to the adjustment programmes of the eurozone countries which experienced the crisis and had to follow tough adjustment programmes. the problem remains the same with regard to the single bank resolution mechanism. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. it was rightly said by too many speakers that it is inconceivable, that it is in fact an illegal dumping, that a company in greece should pay an interest rate five points higher than a company in germany to borrow. the difference in interest rates is often as high as seven points. this, as you can see, creates an inequality in competition, in the real economy, in job creation. it is a problem of social cohesion, it is a problem of legitimizing the european union and our narrative of european integration, and so it is very important to judge what is realistic, as commissioner barnier has said very clearly, and to take the steps that can be taken. we can reach a compromise, both on procedure and substance. the council is expressing this spirit and you can be sure that i will convey to the council the spirit which was reflected in today's debate in parliament.
thank you very much, minister venizelos. i would like to thank both speakers, the commissioner and you, for both of you having taken part in the debate. mr. minister, i want to tell you what the leading players in the next dossier have told me. they said: 'this is also legislation and we would very much like this minister of free speech to represent the council on these matters on the agenda as well.' the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 6 february, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr christofer fjellner, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european community and council regulation (ec) no 597/2009 on protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the european community (com ((2013) 0192 - c7-0097/2013 - 2013/0103 ((cod)) (a7-0053/2014).
member of the commission. - mr president, let me begin by thanking the rapporteur and all those who contributed to the intensive work that has been done so far on this file, as well as the commitment shown by all. i hope that we will be able to keep up this momentum in this crucial phase of interinstitutional decision-making. our trade defence instruments are important for our industry and have become even more important in the context of open markets, where trade defence is often the only remedy for industry when faced with unfair trade. to further illustrate the significance of these instruments, let me just name a few recent cases, such as solar panels, tableware and biodiesel. in all these very different sectors, and many others, trade defence measures have helped ensure that the eu’s industry competes on fair terms with its foreign competitors. by using these targeted measures, we provide a level playing field for our industry. in some cases, this may even prove decisive for the survival of specific sectors. therefore, we need to act now to ensure that we have instruments that are suitable for the current trading environment. failure on this file carries social and economic costs and we cannot afford this. in order for this reform to be a success, all stakeholders need to receive its benefits: industry, importers and users alike. while the interests of the various groups differ significantly, overall we all have the same goal in mind: to reap the advantages of rules-based trade defence instruments that are effective, efficient and transparent. compared with many other users around the world, the strength of the eu’s trade defence instruments lies in their balance and proportionality in the application of measures. these important features need to be maintained and, where possible, further improved through this modernisation. however, some of the amendments voted by the committee on international trade (inta) run the risk of changing the balance in the overall proposal. in particular, the scope of the non-application of the lesser duty rule has been considerably expanded and, in addition, the shipping clause has been removed completely. i am of the view that these amendments will need to be reconsidered. the same goes for some other ideas included in the commission’s original proposal, such as pre-disclosure, or the reimbursement of duties in unsuccessful expiry reviews. these are commission proposals which ensure predictability and fairness. as i said at the outset, parliament has achieved a great deal already within a short timeframe, and tomorrow’s vote is a further important step on the way. however, as members will know, we still have some hurdles to overcome. in particular, flexibility is called for from all parties around the table. balance remains the key word in this modernisation process when it comes to reaching a compromise. rest assured that i will pass on this message also to the council. in particular, i wish to convince them of the importance of entrusting the presidency with a sufficiently flexible negotiation mandate in the coming month. we must be ready to conduct the trilogues in march, and i am prepared to facilitate the talks with all possible means from day one. while being politically charged, the actual questions are not too hard to decide, with good will from all sides. i would like to emphasise, once more, that failure is not an option for me. to conclude, let me thank you once again for the hard work that you have put into this file. we seem to agree on the need to adopt this proposal – so let us adopt it swiftly and go the final mile with an open mind.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. christofer fjellner has already commented on this: the commission put forward this reform of trade defence instruments about three quarters of a year ago. it's very late in her term. and precisely because this is a very sensitive issue and we already had the situation where a reform of the trade defence instruments failed five years ago, it would have been more sensible if we had put this issue on the agenda earlier. but given that we are so close to the end of the electoral period, i am extremely grateful to the rapporteur and also to the shadow rapporteurs for the way we have come and for allowing us to discuss and vote on this issue today and tomorrow. i am also very grateful to the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for the great compromise package. i think that if you look at how controversial this dossier is, we are very well placed with the great compromise package which will hopefully find a large majority in this house. but there are two points of dispute which are still being debated in our group, namely, on the one hand, the so-called shipping clause and the so-called lesser duty rule. the shipping clause itself, i would be grateful if the council could find a solution here. i also think it is possible to find a solution here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am personally a little more concerned about this - but as i said, we in the group also have different opinions on this - the issue of the lesser duty rule, because there is already a paradigm shift taking place here. we have always been careful to impose anti-dumping duties at a level that serves to avert damage to european industry. and with what we are going to decide tomorrow, let us say that we want to impose a penalty tax of a level which not only reverses the damage to european industry but goes beyond that, that is to say, which is really a kind of penalty tax, a penalty for not following the rules. i think there are good arguments for this, but we should all be clear that this is a paradigm shift. i would be glad if the blockade could also be overcome in the council. i think the package we are adopting tomorrow is a good basis for this and i would be grateful if we could reach agreement with the council very quickly!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. let me go a little further in the debate on trade defence instruments. in article 3 of the un charter, all eu member states have committed themselves to 'establish international cooperation to solve international problems of an economic, social, cultural and humanitarian nature and to promote and consolidate respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to race, sex, language or religion'. this obligation takes precedence over any other international agreement. the european union is also committed to promoting good work decent work and environmental protection worldwide. what makes world trade unfair today and causes suffering in many places is environmental and social dumping. we must protect ourselves against this, we must fight it - in the interests of the poor, in the interests of the united nations. i therefore call for our amendment no 83 to be tabled by you, commissioner, and by the commission. we do not need more aggressive measures against industrial policies of developing countries. this parliament and the council have already confirmed the right to raw material sovereignty in 2010. my group insists that this should remain the case. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. this common objective of increasing industrial value added in europe from the current 15.1% to 20% by 2020 means, of course, that we are in fact coherently directing our policy towards strengthening industrial value added and thus securing high-quality and good work in europe. that is why we need to modernise our trade defence instruments, because we are seeing dumping from major trading partners. and, helmut, this is not directed against developing countries, but it is - and the procedures show this - a few countries that are in the spotlight. it is right to say that we have the industrial interest, and not so much the interest of traders. that is why we need clear and unambiguous rules on the shipping clause. we have a clear interest in using the instrument to respond flexibly to damage. that is why we need flexibility in the lesser duty rule. i am also in favour of the commission taking more initiative, because the procedure has been very rigid, as the past has shown. and fourth, we need faster processes. we have put all this on the table with our proposals. i hope that the council will also react as quickly as possible and that we will find a solution.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - mr. president, thank you very much. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to mention in particular the contribution of the rapporteur, mrs annis podimatou, to the formulation of the european parliament's position. we have not been able, at council level, to make the best choice. the commission has not yet reached a common position on a regulation which can be applied throughout the european union, in all member states, throughout the community. we have come to the second choice of enhanced cooperation in terms of quality. it is very important that we, eleven member states of the european union, including greece, believe in this tax because we believe that it will allow the transfer of resources from the financial sector to the real economy, to finance businesses, to create jobs, to combat unemployment and to finance social cohesion measures. this is the price, the return, that the financial sector has to pay for the very great help given to it by the member states, through budgetary mechanisms, to overcome its own crisis. in this respect, the issue we are discussing now, on the financial transaction tax, is very much linked to the previous discussion on the single resolution mechanism, on the banking union, on the single supervisory mechanism, on breaking the vicious circle between the financial and the budgetary crisis - issues to which i referred at length in the previous debate. unfortunately, we have additional institutional difficulties. the matter is already complex, technically, financially and legally, and we also have the action brought by a member state, the united kingdom, before the court of justice of the european union, seeking the annulment of the council decision authorising the enhanced cooperation procedure. we want to move quickly, we want to enable the eleven member states forming the enhanced cooperation group to complete this institutional framework, using the institutional mechanisms of the european union and therefore always with the help of the european commission. but we must be realistic because there are difficulties. i do not know whether we will be able to reach a common position, but we will certainly try to formulate guidelines which give the direction in which we want to move. we are very well aware, on a technical level, that multiple speeds are being created in the financial market, which is a global market by nature, but on the other hand we must agree at some point in the european union whether we need such mechanisms to extract surplus value from the financial sphere and transfer it to activities which are a priority for a europe with a political programme and which can respond to the multiple forms of euroscepticism. this debate is extremely timely, a few months before the end of the european parliament's term and the next european elections. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must be able to offer a vision and a hope and we must also be able to finance that hope. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need new ideas and new mechanisms, so the debate we are having now may seem technical or piecemeal, but it is at the heart of the european problem, the need to talk again about a europe that convinces its citizens, and especially the younger generation.
member of the commission. - mr president, minister, honourable members, this debate is timely and essential. it is timely because there are only a few months left before europe will be judged on how it has delivered on its objectives, and the financial transaction tax has always been closely aligned to some of the eu’s most important objectives: fairness, responsibility and a stronger single market. the european parliament has consistently supported this project. you have had the courage and conviction to transcend individual differences and dogmas, and to converge in support of the ftt. last july, you strongly supported a design which offered a balance between efficiency and delivery. you identified the sensitive areas in this file, and offered strong and credible solutions; you adopted a realistic approach, without losing the ambition for results. i find myself wondering why the eleven member states have not been able to do the same, especially as they had asked specifically to proceed with this project under enhanced cooperation. europe needs to reconnect with its citizens, and the ftt is a prime example of a project which can help to achieve this. 64% of eu citizens support the financial transaction tax, according to the latest eurobarometer survey. this is a highly popular initiative which europeans believe in. our leaders should keep this in mind when considering the proposal, especially as the may elections come ever closer. today’s debate is essential because the ftt is at risk. we all know that a broad-based ftt has a lot of supporters; this is something which should not be overlooked in the avalanche of lobby-driven criticism. but strong vested interest groups have worked tirelessly to impede progress, over-estimating the threats and negative impact of this tax. this has created some apprehension amongst the member states. while i still strongly maintain that many of the fears are unfounded, i do believe it is now time to speed up the work with the member states in order to find a compromise. this assembly set out various options in its last report, which could have formed the basis of a possible agreement. these options included removing from the scope those transactions which are closely linked to the real economy or whose objective is to ensure market liquidity. they included exempting intra-group transactions or transactions within a network of de-centralised banks, when they fulfil a legal or prudential liquidity requirement. they included implementing lower tax rates for certain products, such as governments bonds. all of the options that you presented were viable, and they should have been explored with greater zeal by the member states in seeking a compromise. it is time for all ftt supporters to stand up and team up for progress. this means adapting to the reality of the situation today, and finding a way forward. the broad based ftt is the one that the commission and many stakeholders and citizens want. i still believe that it is the best option to achieve our legitimate objectives. but we must play the cards we are dealt. if we want results, we must nurture what can be achieved, rather than relentlessly pursuing what cannot. the commission has always been clear that it would not stand in the way of an agreement on the ftt, as long as the final compromise does not open the way for avoidance or distortions and does not alter the rights of the non-participating member states. in this context, there would be nothing wrong with a gradual implementation of the tax if that is what the member states are more comfortable with today – as long as this first step is clearly enshrined in an agreed roadmap towards the eventual implementation of a broad-based ftt. agreement on a common ftt will be highly significant for the single market and for our taxpayers, even if the pace is more cautious than we would ideally like. however, to see real progress before the elections, the eleven member states need to engage. yes, they have advanced on some important aspects at technical level, with the full support of the commission, but many issues require strong political steering in order to be resolved. unfortunately that steering has been lacking up to now. i am pleased that the greek presidency has committed to giving priority to this file. under its leadership, there is still time for the eleven member states to converge before the european elections. it is time for them to engage, to compromise and to deliver.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i am grateful to the president-in-office of the council and to the commissioner for this interim report. the interim report was very sobering, because, as the president-in-office of the council said, it is only the second best solution if 11 countries do this and the financial centre of london is left out. we in the epp group supported the proposal, although there were legitimate concerns at one point or another - the commissioner said so - about the exceptions, about many things. if this can be introduced gradually, then this is certainly the right way not only to share the cost of restructuring with the banking sector but also to create new funds. but the fact is - and no one has spoken of this here - that the impact on the real economy must be considered. it is not worth introducing a new tax which, while it brings in revenue, is also designed to distort competition to the detriment of industry and small investors. this cannot be the case. so we have a huge mammoth task for all involved in financial market regulation - it is far from complete - but the financial transaction tax is only a small part of it. that is why i am in favour of introducing a tax on the turnover of stock exchanges as a first step, because in this case the united kingdom may be able to join in. but no one can force or order the states to participate. that is the question, because such a financial transaction tax will only be effective if it is effective globally and the other major financial markets participate in it. at least as important is the reduction of the banking sector, which has been inflated by derivatives, by derivative financial products, without risk-based. that's why it all fits together. we're on our way. both high-frequency trading and the necessary capital base are at least as important as the financial transaction tax.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr lamberts, do you not agree with me that there will be a disruptive effect and that consumers, households, retail investors and companies that rely on hedging transactions will end up paying financial market transaction tax if it is not interpreted accordingly? or do you think that the money for this falls from the sky and is raised by the banks themselves, who are already short of equity capital?
the financial sector has caused a great deal of damage to the economy in recent years and has significantly shaken the confidence of citizens. the financial sector is to be involved in compensating for the damage caused by a financial transaction tax. that is understandable. however, the introduction of such a tax only makes sense if it does not distort competition and weaken the internal market. the proposed route of introducing the tax in the 12 countries which have agreed to do so in the framework of enhanced cooperation is not a viable one. it would lead to dislocation within financial centres and fragmentation of the european market. the countries which already tax a part of financial transactions consider this sufficient and do not want to introduce a full financial transaction tax. we would not have a uniform tax system. in any case, the tax will lead to a further burden on consumers. therefore, pension funds should be excluded. savers who save for their old age should not be penalized. the project in its present form should not be continued. the alternative is the uk stamp duty, which could be supplemented over the years by a tax on bonds and derivatives. we do not want a fragmentation of the internal market and we do not need a new tax, but we do need more harmonization of indirect taxes at least.
member of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, the commission generally welcomes the joint report of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on industry, research and energy (envi/itre), and the european parliament’s support for an ambitious eu climate and energy policy. in many aspects, the joint report of the envi/itre committees corresponds very well to the commission proposal as it was presented on 22 january in the communication ‘a policy framework for climate and energy from 2020 to 2030’. as you will know, it is quite a comprehensive package. i will try to focus first on the greenhouse gas reduction target and on the emissions trading scheme (ets), whereas the energy commissioner will comment on the renewables and energy efficiency part of the package. on the greenhouse gas target, the envi/itre report calls for a binding 2030 target to reduce, domestically in the european union, greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% compared to 1990 levels. this is exactly what the commission put forward in its 2030 climate and energy framework. we did not do that out of the blue, it is of course based on a very solid analysis of our responsibilities: how can we ensure that what we are doing in europe is in line with science? what are the costs? what is the potential? and what is our energy situation? i can see that there are amendments from parliament on this issue, both those that seek to achieve a higher target and those that are trying to delay any action by the eu until after an international agreement may have been concluded. i therefore think that the domestic 40%, which we proposed from the commission’s side, is an ambitious, yet realistic target. it is in line with the cost-effective pathway and milestones as they were set out in the low-carbon roadmap towards 2050, where we would have to bring about a reduction of 80 to 95%. that is what our leaders in europe have set out: that is where we want to be by 2050. that is also, by the way, what the scientific community recommends. what we are doing is finding the most cost-efficient and smoothest trajectory to achieve what we have already agreed on. this, by the way, is also supported by parliament. last week, one of the world’s most esteemed professors dealing with these kinds of sustainability issues, jeffrey sachs, wrote in a blog in the financial times: ‘three cheers for the european union’. he was referring to this package. why did he say that? he wants the utmost ambition because, as he said, a 40% domestic reduction will not be possible through small incremental steps, low hanging fruits. now we come to the more transformational issues, changing our energy systems and many more things like that. so that is why i think this is ambitious, yet realistic. the report from the european parliament also calls for an urgent structural reform of the ets to be proposed this year. as part of our package, the commission has proposed the introduction of a market stability reserve in the eu emissions trading system. the market stability reserve would provide an automatic adjustment of the supply of auctioned allowances downwards or upwards, based on a pre-defined set of rules, and would improve resilience to market shocks and enhance market stability. i think that everyone who has looked through and lived through the whole issue surrounding back-loading will understand why this is important. by the way, it is not the only structural measure. here we have a legislative proposal, it is already there; but the whole package also says very clearly that provided the council and the european parliament will support us in going for the 40% greenhouse gas emissions reduction target, the present correction factor of 1.74% in the ets will have to go up to 2.2%. without going into detail, that just means that one of the more structural options are also addressed in this paper. ms delvaux mentioned energy costs, and can i say that this is something that we are also very much concerned with in the commission. i can only recommend that everybody reads the accompanying analysis of the energy costs, because that really gives us some facts and it dispels many of the myths out there regarding what is driving energy costs in europe. if we in europe are to get our climate and energy policies right, it is extremely important to get the diagnosis right, so that we can get the cure. i really think that the analysis is an excellent paper and food for thought. finally, just one word on the process: why is it crucial that we reach agreement rapidly on a 2030 framework? for one, it is in the interests of european investors, the business community and others. they need to know where we are going after 2020. they are already planning for after 2020. that is one very important reason. it will, of course, also enable the european union to speak with one voice in the international climate negotiations. an important step in the international process is ban ki-moon’s climate summit scheduled for september 2014 in new york. there, the european union should be able to provide a strong signal to the international community to also come forward with ambitious contributions for an international agreement. your approval of the report is a key step in the process of reaching an inter-institutional agreement on the 2030 climate and energy policy and being able to exercise eu-leadership internationally. finally, let me congratulate the two co-rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs for their intense work. i know that in a very short time you have produced a very fine paper and thank you very much for that.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. with our 2030 package, we are laying the groundwork for a consultation with parliament, the council, business, ngos, member states and citizens on how to proceed with the europeanisation of energy and climate policy beyond 2020. we are calling for this european work to continue on the basis of binding measures, binding objectives and clear legislation. your report and your vote tomorrow are an important contribution and we are at the beginning of the debate. a legislative proposal is due to follow in the autumn and the next parliament and council will then take decisions in 2015 that are binding until 2030. why now and why now beyond 2020? because the energy industry - for example, electricity generation, electricity storage, electricity transportation, investment in renewable energy - needs planning certainty well beyond a decade. 2020 was yesterday night for investors, 2030 is tomorrow morning for investors. in addition to what mrs hedegaard has said, i should like to inform you of three main points in our statements. first, the energy efficiency. our/your energy efficiency directive is the latest measure in our package. it is currently being implemented in the member states. the member states are implementing the necessary measures and will report to us in the spring on the progress made in the member states towards greater energy efficiency, towards greater energy savings. we'll analyze these reports over the summer. and then you'll be presented with a report showing how far we've come and what we're projecting on the way to 20% more energy efficiency. are we going to get to 17, 18, 16, 19 percent? what are the member states doing to ensure that the binding measures are implemented on a 1:1 basis? what do they do on top of volunteering? and after we have evaluated this in the summer, we will propose, in the mandate of the present commission, in september and october, an update of our energy efficiency policy and our directive. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. therefore, only binding measures were possible. but at the end of the discussions the council was uncertain whether non-binding measures are too bureaucratic and whether a target of reducing energy consumption would not allow more flexibility in the member states. and secondly, we will have to consider whether we should fix energy efficiency on absolute units of crude oil and reduce it, or whether we should link it to energy intensity, that is, make energy consumption dependent in part on how the economy is doing, whether the economy is growing, stagnating or whether it stays in recession. in any case, energy efficiency we announce that will find an addition in our package in september or october so that all the components of the current package are included in the update. secondly, renewable energy. we are on track to meet the 20% target in final energy consumption. you have to know that we have made a lot of progress in the electricity sector. 20% of all final consumption and only 10% of transport. both figures are in the directive. this means indirectly that the path to 33-35% of electricity generation from renewable energy sources is already binding on the european level. we will generate more than a third of our electricity from renewables by the end of the decade. if the commission proposes a binding target of at least 27% at european level, this means that for the electricity sector we will have to go to 45% in the next decade if we want to achieve this target. the transport sector is not very convincing with first generation biofuels at the moment and we do not see a value higher than 10% at the moment. binding at european level means that if the 27% were to be decided, then they would bind the council, parliament and the commission. the three institutions must then do everything possible at european level to ensure that the objective is achieved and not missed. the members of the council are also members of the governments of their member states. that is why the implementation plans of the member states are so important, which we add up and which then have to be good in the addition for the value at european level. the commission has also said that we have incentives at european level. we can support renewable energy through research, through infrastructure, through co-financing of pipelines that are specifically important for renewable energy sources and sites. this means that we need even better governance if we are to achieve this with european binding force. finally, and this is also reflected in your report, at the beginning of renewable energy, solar was 0 to 3%, wind was 0 to 5%, and national support schemes make sense. however, we note that if we continue to have 28 fragmented support schemes, this will not make the internal market possible and will lead to high costs and low cost efficiency. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european energy charter, the creation of a european energy charter, the creation of a european energy charter, and the creation of a european energy charter. the last point is energy costs. we've done a thorough analysis of the energy costs. it's less about oil and coal, more about gas and electricity. and the fact that we currently have a gas price three or four times higher than, say, the united states, and an electricity price twice as high as the average of the european member states, is unacceptable for the preservation of industrial jobs. it's not about the shareholders first. it is about preserving value added, jobs in energy-intensive industries, in the raw materials industry. keeping them should be our goal. that is what your report says, and what has been said in this chamber is clear. we therefore need to develop a strategy to reduce the price gap between gas and electricity compared to competitors in the world market - the usa, the middle east, asia. in the world market, only japan has higher energy prices than the average for europe. what can be done? firstly, to complete the internal market, to increase competition, to develop the network, the interconnectors, so that competition really does arise. secondly, we should question inefficient support systems. the europeanisation of renewable energy sources is a contribution to reducing the cost of electricity production. and thirdly, we have a high proportion of taxes and duties in many member states. in some countries, the share of government taxes and levies in the determination of the final consumer price of electricity is higher than 50%. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i thank the rapporteurs, i thank you for your work. the communication is a first step, an offer, which means that we will be happy to continue in the coming weeks, at all levels, in the political groups and committees, the discussions on a subsequent legislative proposal from the commission until the autumn of the year!
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are considering how to continue the european union's strategy on energy and climate policy. this means that you first look at what the previous one was like, whether it was successful, where strengths and weaknesses were. one result is that we're essentially achieving the goals. that's the good part. the other thing is that we have to realize that we've gotten very out of control on costs. so when i read a study from a university which says that we have reduced the temperature rise by 0.05°c for 185 billion euros a year, i wonder whether this is a particularly effective method or whether we are not allowed to think about whether there are better methods. that's the question. just continuing with the targets now, three binding targets with higher percentages, is actually stupid and unimaginative and does not solve the problem. the answer would have to be a new, a more intelligent answer. how do we develop ehs to move us forward in a market economy? could it be that focusing on what we care about most, reducing co2, as a central objective, is the right thing to do? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commissioner has pointed this out. it is much more than what we do here, which is to decide on new figures, to pat ourselves on the shoulder and say: we have done a good deed. and thirdly, complete the internal market, build the network so that competition can work! i would advise us in this debate not to seek new figures and new commitments to annoy people in europe, to achieve little and to drive up costs, but to find ways of reducing co2 really effectively, with the least possible burden on people and industry, but also with regard to the cost of the consumer. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr reul, you have just said that three objectives would be stupid and unimaginative. i repeat, stupid and unimaginative. you know as well as i do how dependent we are on energy imports. would you not think it stupid, or at least unimaginative, not to set domestic energy sources and energy saving as firm, binding objectives? that's what i'd call smart and successful, not stupid and unimaginative.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i find that in our common home country, the enthusiasm to set new targets for renewables has driven up costs. people and industry are now complaining about it, and the joint federal government, which is now saying yes, is correcting this procedure because we have obviously chosen the wrong way. that's what i'm talking about. not just looking at the numbers and looking at how to do it more effectively. and i think there's a lot to be done with renewables, with energy efficiency, of course, and with the other forms of energy, but not with the path: commitment and higher numbers.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i just have a simple question. mrs ulvskog, you have just said with such certainty that we have not got as far as we wanted in terms of efficiency measures. how do you know that? the commission has just said that there are no results at all.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. jan, if you are convinced that renewable energy is so cheap, so reliable and so sustainable that we need to expand it in europe so much, and in return we will save energy imports from russia and elsewhere especially fossil energy imports if these energy sources are as great as you have been describing for months, then what do we really need at european and national level supporting instruments? if these technologies are so great and provide us with reliable and affordable electricity, we could actually do without these billion-dollar redistributions and generation tools. - i know.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to thank the two rapporteurs, and in particular anne delvaux of the epp group. the report is really good. there is only one point which we must urgently change tomorrow, and that is the wording on carbon leakage. i'm surprised there's so little talk about it, even from those who care about the industry. the committee has unfortunately decided that the commission should amend the carbon leakage list. we have tabled an amendment, amendment no 9, which says that we need planning certainty and that until we have an international agreement, the carbon leakage list must remain so that those who meet high standards are not driven out of europe. that's what we should be focusing on. i personally support three binding objectives. the commission's impact assessment is an important argument, because it shows that it is good for the economy, for growth and employment, and not just for renewable energy or efficiency, to agree on three objectives. the commission itself should take this into account more fully as the debate progresses. we need to make energy efficiency a new priority. we have always neglected this objective a little in the past. we should put this at the forefront now, because it will help us to reduce costs and achieve our objectives more cheaply. in conclusion, i would urge that amendment no 4 be accepted. because i'm really mad at the commission. in the chapter on governance, the european parliament is only mentioned as an ngo. parliament is an equal legislator. this must also apply to this report, whatever we think of its content.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am a little concerned that in the debate we are having here we are actually taking into account the economic and political realities in europe and in the world. the economic reality in europe is that we have been promoting renewable energy for years and now we have to realize that the costs are out of control and this is by no means a german phenomenon. everywhere these subsidies are being withdrawn because they simply cannot afford them any more. one of the political realities is that the rest of the world is not with us when it comes to pushing for an ambitious climate change agreement. and i ask all those who want to save the world: if this is even possible, can we really do it from europe alone? the commission's proposals are not in line with the spirit of the treaty. because we didn't do very well with what we did. we're taking our economy on a treadmill if we want to reduce co2, increase energy efficiency and at the same time promote renewable energy. i think that this is also incompatible with the commission's communication, which is only a few days old and which deals with the industrial renaissance in europe. commissioner oettinger's last sentence was: 'this is an opening and an offer'. i think that sentence shows that he himself does not really believe in the implementation of the things we are discussing.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. what's this about? it is about giving the industry investment certainty about what will happen in the coming years. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the community's energy policy. but if we signal now that we're not serious about 2030, we're going to make a lot of investors and a lot of people who want to go forward uncertain. we actually need a target of 45 percent renewable energy and 50 percent co2 reduction if we're going to make any progress towards an energy-efficient and low-carbon industrial society. that is the way we should go, not the reverse. a colleague said that the industry was in a rut. yes, the ganglion has them, if we continue to rely on fossil fuels. we must not let that happen, but we must rely on renewable energy. onshore wind power can now be produced for 4.5 cents and the cheapest form of coal costs 6.5 cents. you can see what the ganglion is here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. climate change policy is also economic and industrial policy, it is also development and employment policy, it is investment policy. i see that the debate is totally blocked here. it's a total blockage of the mind. we're looking back where this renewable energy was inefficient and expensive, and not looking forward to the year 2030, where we actually have cost reductions at all levels and can get these achievements much cheaper and much better. that's why we have to look forward, not back. europe was once a pioneer and i fear we are giving up that role. the commission's proposal does not make us a pioneer anymore. i would also ask the commission: how do you intend to implement a renewable energy target at european level alone? they don't have any control, they don't have any governance structure to really enforce that. and parliament will be outside. we no longer have co-decision, but we have soft law. so i encourage us to be more ambitious and to see the opportunities for europe and not to miss them!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i believe that there are two very important elements in the fisheries policy. the first is the setting of sustainable catch levels, the second is the monitoring of compliance with these levels and other rules of the common fisheries policy. the reform of the common fisheries policy has settled the first element. in future, europe must not be overfished. in the basic reform regulation we also laid down some principles of control, such as that control must be efficient, coordinated and proportionate. we could not reschedule the details, because the details are part of the control regulation. the current control regulation, which we are only adapting here and now to the treaty of lisbon, is still relatively young. the council of ministers adopted this text of law rather quickly shortly before the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, presumably to avoid our involvement as meps. the result is not bad in my view and it has significantly improved fisheries control in europe. nevertheless, with the reform of the fisheries policy, and in particular the ban on discarding that accompanies it, we must rethink control. in my view, fishermen should be rewarded for complying with the ban on discarding by simplified rules. for example, in many cases minimum lengths could be abolished. but we can only do that if we make sure that the fishermen are complying with the discard ban, otherwise the result will be counterproductive. i therefore call on the commission to submit a new control regulation as soon as possible!
member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank all the speakers and to repeat that all their remarks and concerns will be heard by us and, of course, in this procedure for the assessment of the implementation of this regulation, the concerns of parliament are going to have a prominent place. my successor will be ready to come to parliament with a good proposal that bears in mind members’ concerns and remarks, along with the report we are going to prepare, as we are obliged to do, referring to the implementation of this regulation. i wish to make just two short comments. firstly, on the implementation of this regulation, the commission is obliged to prepare everything in order to give the member states the possibility to go for the proper implementation of this regulation. this is what we are trying to do now. that is why in our proposal, and that of the parliament and council, we have an increased amount of money dedicated to the control and enforcement of the new fisheries policy. this applies also to the good scientific data some members referred to, and it also applies to giving the member states the possibility of having their own techniques and applying in their own way the implementation rules of these regulations. that is why we have this regionalisation procedure in our reform, so the member states, on a sea basin approach, can decide how they are going to implement technical measures appropriate to their situation. i am not saying that everything is perfect, but i am saying that we have the framework for more flexibility in the future. then there is the money. of course, the council and parliament are going to decide on the compromise that the three institutions – parliament, the council and the commission – have reached with reference to the funding instrument, but what i would like to say is that i do not want to pre-empt the discussion here and the decision of parliament. what i would like to underline is that time is very precious. our fishermen need this money, so i urge parliament, and everybody concerned, to speed things up, and to give us an opinion as soon as possible as to what we are going to do with the money already there for our fisherman and our industry. i would like to thank ms thomas again, and also the shadow rapporteurs for their good work on this file.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, in this era of globalisation, competition authorities have no choice but to strengthen their cooperation and coordination. bilateral relations between these authorities are essential because they produce tangible results. when competition authorities target large international companies, national borders are irrelevant. we must join forces. i am convinced that the level and scope of global cooperation between competition authorities can only be strengthened in the future. an important step in this direction is the cooperation agreement with switzerland which is before you today. i now turn to the detailed questions put to the commission by the honourable member on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. i'm filling in for mr. almunia, who's not here. the cooperation agreement with switzerland is binding between the parties. however, it is true that it leaves to each competition authority a margin of appreciation as to whether or not evidence is exchanged in a particular case. the objective of the agreement is not to oblige the parties to exchange information, but to enable them to do so, given that they would not be able to exchange information under their current legal framework. the commission does not see this margin of appreciation as an obstacle to sincere and fruitful cooperation. the agreement will only be successfully implemented if each party recognises that it creates added value for their respective investigations. the protection of the leniency system for detecting cartels is particularly important to the commission. as a result, the exchange of information on leniency is simply excluded by the agreement, unless the source of the information has given its explicit consent. the commission is satisfied that no party will disclose or use information in breach of the agreement. in the event of an unlawful disclosure, the commission would enter into consultation with the swiss authorities in order to minimise the impact. in such cases, it shall not continue to provide information until it is satisfied that such an incident will not occur again. the commission has made progress in the negotiations with canada, but they have not yet been concluded. any second generation agreement with another country will take into account the specificities of the jurisdiction concerned. advanced cooperation requires a partner of professionalism and competence, one in whom the commission can place its trust. the conclusion of memoranda of understanding is a useful instrument. the result is a framework that fosters dialogue. the example of the cooperation of the directorate-general for competition with the chinese competition authorities has shown that memoranda of understanding are good tools to promote cooperation. the commission will continue to inform parliament of the negotiations on cooperation agreements in competition matters, as provided for in the framework agreement. in the case of the agreement with switzerland, the commission informed parliament at the same time as it submitted the draft negotiating mandate to the council. the memoranda of understanding between the commission and the competition authorities of third countries are administrative arrangements and not legal instruments. the commission will keep parliament informed of developments in the situation on a regular basis. any agreement with a third country on the exchange of information will have to be in line with the exchange of information within the european union. at present, the commission cannot transfer to another european authority information that will be used as evidence in a procedure leading to prison sentences. consequently, for any agreement with a third country which recognises criminal sanctions, the commission will have to be satisfied that the country undertakes not to use the information received as evidence to impose such sanctions. the current european rules exclude any sanction against individuals. in fact, the european union enforcement system was designed to investigate and punish companies and does not apply to individuals. the introduction of administrative or criminal sanctions would thus require significant institutional legal changes.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the epp group - to say this at the outset - will support the agreement with switzerland on competition law. we consider this to be a very important step forward, because switzerland and the european union have very close economic relations and therefore we can make an important contribution to the establishment of such relations in competition matters, so that we can combat crossborder economic crime along the value chains in the integrated value chains we have between switzerland and the european union. we are therefore concerned with achieving arms equality so that the law enforcement authorities and the competition authorities can act accordingly. it is estimated that up to 2% of european economic output is affected by cartels, and this occurs along the entire value chain. that is why it is particularly important to conclude what i would like to call a second-generation agreement here. but i would also like to point out that it may not only concern switzerland, but that we as the european union are closely interwoven with many economies in the world, and that is why one of the key requirements is that this model, which has now been agreed with switzerland, should also be the basis for upgrading existing agreements - for example with the usa, canada, japan and south korea - because we find exactly the same problem areas that i have already mentioned. in this sense, the epp's support is essential. and we hope, commissioner, that this blueprint, which we shall adopt tomorrow, will also serve as a basis for further agreements in the world!
mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. much has been said about the strong economic interconnection between switzerland and the european union and the importance of ensuring that we also pursue cartels and unfair market practices along the integrated economic value chains. i am therefore pleased that our shadow rapporteur, mr markus ferber, has already made it clear that the epp group can support this agreement. i believe that we can do this with great responsibility to the citizens who elected us. i would point out, however, that the swiss parliament is not yet ready to give its consent to this agreement, but has already introduced a number of additional questions into the legislative process, and we must therefore ensure that the agreement is implemented in the form in which it is being voted on here today. secondly, i can only agree with mrs băsescu that the vote to be held in switzerland next sunday is of course of paramount importance for us too, because we naturally want to see the basic principles of this free internal market accepted everywhere in the countries which directly benefit from this internal market. i think that this point shows that we have an interest in reaching an institutional framework agreement where all the major legal issues can actually be decided on the basis of current legal developments, and we do not have to compare certain issues with developments that were in the past. mr president, perhaps i may add one more comment: i think that the criminal sanctions mentioned in the question to the commission are always quite popular, but in any case the united kingdom, which introduced such criminal prosecution methods a few years ago, has never used them before and this goes some way to showing that they may be less attractive than is often thought.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to take action in this area. 10% of the population owns a handgun. for every person in the world - from infant to elderly - two new cartridges are produced each year. in technical jargon, this is called "overkill" and describes a situation that calls for disarmament and at the same time includes opportunities for it. the debate today is not about disarmament, although it is a matter of urgency and our house will not be able to close its doors to it forever. the att aims for the first time at an internationally binding increase in control and transparency in the multibillion dollar arms trade. we can and must criticize this treaty for its weak points. it does not untie the knot of the areas of tension to which arms dealers are very quick to turn, but which are cut off from such supplies in the interests of peaceful solutions to conflicts (such as syria). the att also does not put a cap on 'innovative' business models in the arms industry, it leaves the arms problem to the logic of competition in the markets, ignoring the fact that international conflicts very often arise from the logic of markets, and it even gives states a 'legitimate right and interest' in the arms trade. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them, because the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the commission has already done so. let us not forget that in the short time i have been speaking, two people have been killed by the use of weapons.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is good that the european parliament can finally recommend to the member states that they ratify the important arms trade treaty. i hope that this arms export control treaty will not become a toothless paper tiger like previous agreements and unfortunately still the eu's common position on arms export control. how else could it be that in northern syria, franco-german anti-tank missiles are turning up in the hands of islamist rebel groups, who have in turn stolen them from syrian army weapons depots? the milan missiles come from the arms deal in the 1970s between assad's father and franz josef strauss, then prime minister of bavaria, and from recent arms deliveries. whoever these weapons are in the hands of, they will always kill people, and civilians in particular. the gaps in the att, but also in the eu's common position, are large. in particular, the implementation and enforcement of effective controls is not taking place. the political agenda must continue to include improving the effectiveness of arms export controls. this includes clear consequences for exporters who repeatedly violate export control criteria. i still call for a halt to all arms exports and the launching of a conversion process. but of course we support the control of all arms exports and therefore also the att.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we know that arms exports are tantamount to an active policy of insecurity. germany has accounted for 11% of the international arms trade over the last decade. that's as much as france and britain combined. the conservative government in germany has exported more than ever in the history of the country. there are still some high-risk, giant tank deals with saudi arabia and indonesia that aren't even in the databases yet. unfortunately, germany is also a world leader in small arms, as the irresponsible exports of heckler & koch to mexico have just shown. germany diplomatically boasts that it does not go into war zones and conflicts with its own soldiers, but that it holds back. but at the same time it is adding fuel to the fire by unrestrained arms sales. it is striking that in germany itself, compared with the usa, there seem to be no criteria or rules to regulate exports. the german government should therefore use the forthcoming ratification of the international arms trade agreement to finally put in place an ordinary law on arms exports and to create transparency through a parliamentary control body.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, the commission would like to thank the rapporteur as well as other members of the committee on transport and tourism (tran) for their constructive work during the revision of the air passenger rights regulation. in practice, air passengers are not always afforded the rights to which they are entitled. this is firstly because the enforcement system which is now in place is not sufficiently effective and is not applied uniformly across the eu. secondly, if airlines and passengers have different interpretations of the same text, disputes become unavoidable. the commission’s proposal therefore aims to bring more clarity to the text. it also aims to improve the enforcement of passenger rights. at the same time, it takes the operational and financial impacts on airlines into account. these have an inevitable effect on ticket prices for passengers. the commission welcomes the fact that its proposal is strengthened in the tran committee report in the following key areas: first, enforcement; second, right of information; third, what airlines should do in cases of cancellation and fourth, possibility of complaint. however, some of parliament’s amendments raise concerns. let me mention, in particular, delay on short and medium distances. parliament wishes to maintain the current delay thresholds for compensations. the commission is concerned that these thresholds may be too short, with unwanted side effects that damage passenger interests. the commission considers that if the airline is not given reasonable time to deal with the causes of the flight delay there might be a financial incentive for it to cancel delayed flights. we want passengers to be taken home or to where they want to go. parliament would like to adopt an exhaustive list of extraordinary circumstances that exempt the airline from paying compensation to passengers. this list might be too rigid. thirdly, with airline insolvency, the commission fully understands parliament’s preoccupation. however, the proposal that air carriers should provide a fund, or insurance, for repatriation and reimbursement of tickets does not seem adequate. such a systemic measure would double the cost of the current regulation and appears disproportionate. the commission’s communication of 18 march 2013 on passenger protection in the event of airline insolvency sets down a number of commitments which will now be put into concrete action. i hope that today’s debate will contribute to finding the right balance between the various interests at stake. we should remember that the main objective of this revision is to ensure better enforcement of air passenger rights, with simpler complaint handling, for the benefit of travellers and airlines alike.
adopted on 16 february. the commission has decided to extend the period of validity of the authorisation for the placing on the market of the medicinal product concerned to the period from 1 january 2002 to 31 december 2003. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. the rapporteur rightly suggests that passengers who miss their outbound flight for any reason, such as congestion on the motorway, should not be denied their return flight. but that's only for simple round trips. this does not apply if you have booked a connecting flight, as most consumers in europe do. if such a passenger misses the outbound flight for any reason, he shall not be allowed to take the return flight. i do not think that is justified! the rights of passengers, the rights of consumers, must not depend on whether one has booked a direct flight or a connecting flight, because there is no other way of booking a connecting flight. this is an unequal situation and we are not in favour of passengers who have paid for their flight and have a ticket not being allowed to fly back. you are entitled to a promotion and must be able to fly back.
the commission has already done so. the report by my colleague, mr bach, is a very consumer-friendly compromise between the demands of air passengers and the interests of airlines. it will considerably strengthen the rights of consumers, both in the light of the present situation and in the light of the commission's proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote in the european parliament. i therefore ask you to approve the report as adopted by the tran committee and to reject the further amendments. i am particularly concerned with thresholds. the three-tier principle, as described in the bach report, is a realistic approach. with only two thresholds, airlines are hardly left with the ability to catch up. in the end, flights are more likely to be cancelled, which is not good for passengers, because they want to travel after all and are not ostensibly looking for compensation. i also fear that airlines will factor in the possible risks of overcompensation in their ticket prices. ergo, it's going to be more expensive for air travelers. (b) the no-show policy. the partial ban on the no-show policy is also a compromise, which gives airlines the opportunity to make attractive offers with conditions attached to them. this is for the benefit of the passengers. if it is no longer worthwhile for airlines to create good deals, they will be lost in the future. the damage is to the passengers. so let's look at sustainability, the longer-term consequences of our decisions, not short-term success! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. you heard me right. i think politics is a balancing act between interests. we should therefore stick to it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, and dear georges bach! georges, you did a great job. this is a really big boost for airline passenger rights, which are now being improved. thank you again. the fact is that we all know what can happen: that luggage can be lost, that flights can be delayed and that you cannot properly assert your rights afterwards. we've all been there. there is definitely something improving now. the commission proposal has been extended by mr bach, who has made it even more passenger-friendly. so we should really agree with it today and rejoice in it. we have made various improvements. we have higher compensation for less delay. we also measured compensation for delay at the airport of arrival rather than at the airport of departure, so that it is actually fully compensated for the connecting delays. we've clearly defined the exceptional circumstances. we also have better information. i think it is very important that you have transparency from the start about what you are getting into and that you also have someone at the airport who is the person to contact if you want to complain. i've been there a few times, and it wasn't the case, it has to be now. we have clarity about musical instruments. and then the hand luggage thing is also something that we had to address, this one bag rule is something that many passengers have found to be urgent. if we can get clarity in there now and you can take something with you, that's a good thing too. (interruption: "feminist" is the word.) no, what? it's not misogynistic at all. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i see that very clearly. that is why, of course, this right should also apply there. (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i wanted to ask you, isn't the one-baggage rule discriminatory against women? because if i have a piece of luggage, a small suitcase, i can take it with me, but if i have a small handbag, as a woman, i have to pay for it. i hardly know a man who carries a small handbag. is that not discriminatory against women and how do you feel about that?
question on the 'blue card' procedure to dominique riquet mr dominique riquet, there has been talk of misogyny in relation to the one-bag rule. that's exactly what we have right now. that's what we're trying to change. do you not agree with me that we can change that now with this proposal that women can take their handbags with them without being discriminated against? that's exactly what we were planning. i don't want it to be left in the room that we didn't take this on.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission's proposal was a high-flying for airlines and a crash-landing for passengers. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. the ecj's decision to award you compensation after at least three hours would have been invalidated because you were there for five hours. i don't understand why you only had the airline's profit interests in mind. we have now considerably reduced this by mr bach's proposal. i thank him for that, too. but we are worse than the existing law, because there was a compensation after two hours! and we are far from equal rights for all! on the train, you get compensation after one hour, and it doesn't matter how far you go, it always applies. we're a long way from that! the independent arbitration body is a good thing, it is necessary. but whenever you look at the profit interests of the airlines: the european taxpayer gives them 30 billion euros every year because, unlike the railways, they do not have to pay vat on international connections and no kerosene tax. you'd have to correct this injustice, that's your job!
the commission has already done so. i would like to begin by congratulating the commission on taking the initiative to bring this proposal to parliament. because without this proposal, passenger rights would still be a lucrative business for lawyers. that is something that nobody in europe wants. the commission proposal obviously needed improvement in some areas. but the european parliament has also done its homework here. but the fundamental question for passengers in europe is not the last euro of compensation, but whether, if they have planned to fly somewhere, they will end up arriving there within the scheduled time. that's what counts, punctuality. finally, we do not want to create a compensation barricade here, but to force airlines to make sure that passengers who are planning flights, who want to be on time for their holidays, business travellers who want to be on time arrive on time. that's why we have compensation schemes. the second point that is important to me is that compensation rules must work in the end. it has been said many times that we are now hopefully making progress with the conciliation body. because, of course, it has happened to me that the flight, although it was more than three hours late, ended up leaving without compensation because some force majeure was found or invented. the question is whether the new regulation really excludes that. i would be glad, commissioner, if you would check as soon as possible whether the airlines are actually complying with what we have written into the law or whether it will continue to be so difficult for consumers to enforce their rights.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not there is a german proverb that says: the glass is half full or the glass is half empty. the directive is open to everyone's judgment. but before we do, we should look at the basic conditions under which seasonal workers are currently living in our home countries: in rotting houses, in usurious rentals, on hunger wages, without contracts, without employment protection, without social rights, without legal protection, as objects of truly unrestrained exploitation. what's the best solution? the ban on seasonal work? will there be no more seasonal workers coming to europe? this is the wrong approach. it must be about the protection and dignity of these people in the eu. and we must and we can, with a first step, with this directive, really do away with the catastrophic conditions in which seasonal workers are treated, improve their lives, lift them out of the shadow of injustice. the directive makes real progress in this respect, which we on the left support: the right to adequate housing rosano , equal treatment, equal pay for domestic workers, the application of collective agreements, legal protection for seasonal workers. this includes the threat and effectiveness of sensitive sanctions for employers who violate this directive. but the glass is half empty. the directive applies only to thirdcountry nationals who are not already living in the eu. the head office must therefore be outside the eu. family reunification - that's a problem - won't happen, and the transitional arrangements are quite long. but the ball is now in the member states' court to implement the directive really consistently, with strong supervisory bodies. the most effective way to achieve this is to have collective agreements covering the whole of the community, minimum wages and decent social conditions for the citizens themselves. the commission has already made a number of proposals.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to stress once again that this directive closes an important dark chapter in the european union. seasonal work is an area in the eu where workers' rights are massively abused and human rights violations are practically commonplace. it is the first directive on legal immigration and it is the first directive on workers' rights and on equality for seasonal workers. they would be better off than the posted workers. i would like to point this out again. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the fact that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights. the directive is correct an attack on the profit margins of those who have so far benefited from social dumping and have thus also acted unfairly in competition. i would like to ask all the member states to implement this directive and to be strict in their controls, because we need a fair europe!
member of the commission. - mr president, listening to the debate here, it is hard to believe that it took us three and a half years to agree, because there seems to be general agreement here. it is true, it has been difficult, with many difficult issues to look at and take into consideration and weigh up, but now we are here, finally, and i am really happy that we can take this important step in a few moments, when we will vote for, i hope, with a strong majority. thank you again to the three rapporteurs and all the shadow rapporteurs and others for their immense achievement. with this, we will manage to protect those people who we do need to come to europe. they are coming here every year; there are not enough possibilities to find local work. but if there is work in some countries, all countries are free to decide for themselves: it is not being imposed on them. it means if you take seasonal workers from third countries, these are the rules, but you do not have to do it. so this is to protect those who do come, and we do need these people in spite of the crisis. it also opens up a very important, legal way into europe for people who do want to work and contribute. i hope that the happy dynamics here in this chamber today will also add some positive input to another very important directive on legal migration for highly-skilled workers: the icts directive. it is still possible to reach a positive agreement before the end of the mandate of this parliament and, with that in place, we would be able to congratulate ourselves that we really have done an enormous amount to regulate low-skilled and high-skilled work for people we do need in europe. they bring growth and investments and we need to protect them. we need to have clear rules and, of course, we need to make sure that they are not abused, but also that there is protection for european workers to prevent social dumping and so on. so that is a great job done. thank you again and i am looking forward to this being implemented in member states as soon as possible.
i have to say, madam president, i just wanted to ask when the president is going to officially inform the house of the background to the decision by the communications dg to grant the planned grant of almost eur 60 000 to the company active group by mrs monika stanisheva, alias janova, alias yosifova, the wife of the leader of the european socialists; the total amount of the payments was almost eur 30 000. i would like to know whether it is confirmed that the money has been returned to an ep account and whether the project has been terminated or whether the money is still to be paid on presentation of supporting documents and if the lady has denied a conflict of interest in writing, whether this may constitute a case of perjury. i think it is very strange what has happened and i can only imagine what would have happened if the wife of our epp chairman had got such a deal from the ep. so i'm asking you to clarify. the president should make that happen.
madam president, this amendment has been dealt with by the previous votes. it does not need to be voted on.
i have to say, madam president, this is not a motion for a resolution. i have a complaint. we are sitting here in front of the plenary hall, in a state of complete confusion. the access doors to the plenary chamber have been removed, for whatever reason, perhaps they need to be repaired. if so, i would like to know why this has to be here during the week of parliament's sitting. the parliament building has been unused for weeks. it's sick in here. i think that's a stretch. i expect improvement. (applause from the centre)
in writing. - in addition to my speech this morning, i should like to warn against the exhaustive list of extraordinary circumstances put forward by the committee on transport. this is a list of seven exceptional circumstances, which may be supplemented by delegated acts if necessary. it is a long process to come up with a comprehensive and sufficient list. this leads to legal uncertainty. why does a detailed list have to be created by delegated acts and/or further ecj judgments? the european parliament is the legislator. we are not doing european consumers a favour by introducing such a list, especially since we could have included a comprehensive list today, following numerous proceedings before the court of justice.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - mr president, honourable members, i am happy, as commissioner responsible for european neighbourhood policy, to address you on this issue, and i will come back to that aspect towards the end of my speech, after responding to the views which i have heard expressed and which i respect. let me start by thanking parliament for organising today’s important debate. it shows that the thoughts of all of us here are with the people of ukraine in these difficult times – and not only our thoughts, for we are working hard and taking concrete action to de-escalate the situation and to support ukrainian citizens’ enjoyment of their freedoms of speech and peaceful assembly, as well as media freedom. the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, baroness ashton, is in kiev today. she has met the ukrainian president and opposition representatives and she has also met, and will be meeting, other stakeholders in efforts to support a political solution to the political crisis and to support ukraine on its way forward. when i last addressed the plenary on ukraine in december, the situation was still largely peaceful, although initial attempts had been made to crack down on pro-european protests. since then, we have witnessed a serious downward spiral, and lately there have been unacceptable acts of violence and reports of casualties, torture and disappearances. like some of you, i have recently been in kiev. with the dramatic events of recent weeks, it has become acutely clear that what is at stake now is not only respect for the most basic fundamental rights but also the future of ukraine. baroness ashton’s and my visits helped to facilitate dialogue and to avoid worst-case scenarios, including a possible state of emergency. your presence in kiev last week reinforced these messages. we need to maintain close coordination of our messages and our actions to help in easing the situation on the ground. we have coordinated with the council of europe and with the organisation for security and cooperation in europe (osce), whose legal expertise has been instrumental in the revocation of the restrictive legislation adopted on 16 january. unfortunately, with the controversial amnesty law adopted on 29 january and the continued impunity for killings, kidnappings, the torture of peaceful protesters and targeted action against journalists, there remains serious distrust between the two sides. what is needed is a serious commitment by both sides to finding a negotiated solution to the current political crisis. that is the only way to avoid a vicious cycle of mutual recrimination. the opposition and protesters must dissociate themselves from radical elements. evacuating the occupied ministry of justice on 27 january and the ministry of agriculture on 29 january is but one example of a responsible attitude on their side. the authorities are responsible for respecting and protecting freedom of speech and assembly and media freedom. so far, too little has been done to this end: peaceful protesters continue to be detained, often when injured and, in some cases, straight after leaving hospitals. kidnappings and torture by unknown perpetrators continue unpunished. the work of the investigation advisory panel, as proposed by the council of europe, has to start immediately as a step towards addressing the current atmosphere of impunity. de-escalation and stabilisation of the situation are now the main priorities. looking ahead, the focus will be on ensuring lasting stability in the country. a new government, regardless of its composition, will need to enjoy sufficient trust from all sides: discussions on the constitution are of particular importance, and time is of the essence in that respect. we are ready to support the process with expertise and advice. conditions for free and fair presidential elections in 2015 will need to be put in place, including in particular with regard to the composition of the central electoral commission and the transposition of the amendments to the law on parliamentary elections into the laws on presidential and local elections. the european union stands ready to assist all sides in advancing along such a political track. in a positive scenario, we will be ready to extend our assistance, on the basis of a genuine commitment to political and economic reforms, in cooperation with the international monetary fund and other international actors. these steps are necessary in order for the ukrainian government to ensure the country’s sovereignty, stability, modernisation and economic prosperity for the years to come. they are also crucial if ukraine wishes to keep the doors open for its political association and economic integration with the european union. honourable members, to conclude: baroness ashton and i are working as a team in ukraine. she is there today, trying to stop the crisis escalating, and i will be returning there next week. let me also say clearly on her behalf that she will be at the meeting of the committee on foreign affairs next tuesday to debrief parliament about the conclusions of the previous day’s foreign affairs council, including on ukraine. she has also offered to debrief the conference of presidents on the iranian talks, and she will address the plenary in brussels on 2 april. february and march will be dominated by the iranian talks. these concern a key objective for the european union. baroness ashton considers it her duty before the end of her term of office to conclude both the serbian and kosovo agreements and the iranian talks successfully and, with me, to make all possible efforts to resolve the crisis in ukraine.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. thank you very much for the high commissioner's willingness to integrate her work into a parliamentary process and for doing so in a team. we will take care of this and will support them in solving the problems you have mentioned. the door to europe is open and must remain open for ukraine. we must note that after the failure to sign the agreement in vilnius, peaceful people demonstrated peacefully and were horribly handcuffed and put in prison. this was the trigger of the crisis, not the demonstrations, but the violence against peaceful demonstrations. this has been linked again to the laws of 16 january and the violent measures taken by the government, the police and the civil hordes. we should not confuse cause and effect in these matters. i am glad that the opposition leaders have always resisted violence on their own part and have done so successfully. you expressed that when you secured the buildings. it is important that the amnesty be implemented quickly for all political prisoners, including tymoshenko. we are for the peaceful demonstrations to be allowed and for people not to be afraid of the arbitrariness of the state. we are in favour of the constitutional process starting with the immediate introduction of the 2004 constitution, under which yanukovych was also elected, and that on this basis elections are also prepared quickly in the sense of the electoral law, which includes fewer possibilities for fraud. in these circumstances, such a short package of financial assistance should be possible and should be implemented, as well as long-term measures, within the framework of ukraine's capabilities. this also means that in terms of the conditioning, which is inevitable because there has to be economic progress, we have to talk to the imf to do that. but i think if the ukrainian government continues as it has done so far, we should go after people who are directly guilty of taking action against people, putting them in prison, torturing them, or who have helped to bring about such legislation, banning them from entering the country, and maybe even looking into the bank accounts to see if all this is clean money.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. unlike mr verhofstadt, i do not think that we could spare ourselves press releases, visits, statements, but i am glad that this situation of late december/early this year, when europeans did not give a damn about what was going on in ukraine, has been overcome. it is very regrettable, however, that this escalation and the state of emergency laws, the deaths and the torture that we all know, had to happen before europeans could get back on board with the ukraine conflict. in the acute situation, as i assess it after my fourth visit this winter, i find, for example, that every hour that catherine ashton is in kiev, every hour that commissioner füle is in kiev to talk to the government and the party of regions is better because the situation is so unpredictable. we do not know whether the decision to dissolve parliament and to declare the famous martial law will not come suddenly, as president yanukovych openly threatened last week. and many people in kiev think that just because president putin wants to have peace for sochi, this state of threatened civil war has not yet materialized. i have therefore been very insistent that we should set up a permanent observer mission, that we should be on the ground permanently with members of the european parliament, that we should talk to everyone. i say that again for the ukrainian public, for our colleagues in the rada. we are talking to everyone because we still cannot believe that actually members of the rada who belong to the party of regions, with whom we have been in contact for many years, are suddenly ready to support this escalation. i believe that this mission - supported by national parliamentarians - is very important, also to prevent the violence from spreading. what is happening is that doctors can no longer work in hospitals and rescue the injured because they are threatened, that freshly operated patients are abducted from hospitals by unknown forces, which are sometimes attributed to the russian intelligence service in the media there, these are conditions that are unbearable! the demand that finance be prepared, that we go into this gap that the russians have left now, i support that very much. with this great new social civil rights movement comes a goal for the transformation of ukraine that these people will not give up, that is much stronger than the europeans first estimated. and i think that we cannot have any interest in the country not only slipping into civil war and civil war-like conditions in the near future, but going bankrupt before that. this would be a disaster for the security and stability of the european union and the entire continent. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the euromaidan movement was triggered by the failure of the association agreement following president yanukovych's refusal. the euromaidan movement is a large civil society movement throughout ukraine for democracy, against corruption, for the rule of law. it is precisely because i understand this so well - this desire to end corruption - that it is so important that we not only talk about sanctions, but that we prepare ourselves for the fight against money laundering and the successful operation of the people who work in or around the yanukovych regime and who make the best deals with laundered money and state assets of ukrainians in european countries and immediately after deciding to use violence against the peaceful euromaidan movement, resigned, like president azarov, but today happily enjoy their punishment in vienna. and that's not going to happen. (the president cut the speaker off)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. we are having a really crucial debate. ukraine is experiencing a deep political, economic, constitutional and social crisis which is deeply dividing the country. and whether president yanukovych and the oligarchs who support him will remain in power is a much debated question in ukraine today and also the subject of the deeply moving social conflict that is always behind it, with all its implications, with the reports of attacks, of torture, of disappearances, of the actions of armed gangs, the so-called titsky gangs. the answer to that question, however, is for the ukrainian people alone to give in a democratically legitimized form. this is not a matter for the european union, it is not a matter for the russian federation, it is not a matter for the united states. mr füle, you recently spoke out against the policy of the cordon sanitaire in relation to russia. i think we should be honest in the debate. if we do not develop a clear strategy for the further development of the european neighbourhood policy and the strategic partnership with the russian federation, if we do not think together about how to re-design the complex, complicated, historically charged relationship and find a way forward here, if we do not create a space for the broad, necessary social dialogue of the forces involved and acting in different ways and with different objectives, then we will not be able to make a constructive contribution to overcoming the current complicated situation in ukraine.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the olympic games were an imperative time of peace in ancient times. so we can only hope that today's lord of the rings will not pour more russian oil into the open ukrainian fire. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. president yanukovych will meet president putin in sochi on friday, and i assume he will receive further instructions and backing there, because russia has not only bought up ukrainian bonds, but russia has also given instructions with repressive laws on how to suppress protests. for weeks, the kremlin-aligned media has been drumming up calls for an end to the maidan haunting. i think that the commissioner has a very good idea of what is going on in the community, and i think that the commissioner has a very good idea of what is going on in the community. the situation and the influence of russia in this respect should not be underestimated in any way!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to add three points which may disturb the harmony, although i agree with all or much of what has been said so far. i very much agree that in a situation like this, you have to have sanctions, you have to be prepared, you have to threaten sanctions and then you have to implement them. but unfortunately that is not in our resolution. it says "take immediate action". we should be a little more specific about our resolutions. the way we talked today is better. secondly, mr verhofstadt says that there is no strategy. aside from the fact that i see it a little differently, it's also hard to have a strategy, especially when you're both part of the game and a mediator. i would have liked the osce to have played a greater role in this respect. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. we have a good commissioner and a good high commissioner. they've done enough work. we don't need our own offices there either.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very much in favour of opening up a kind of financial rescue umbrella for ukraine in view of the acute financial crisis, which will help the country in this area in the short term. but the yanukovych, klyuyev, azarov, firtash and other families, who have shamelessly enriched themselves over the last few years, must not benefit from this. these funds, which are in the west, must be identified and controlled and returned to the state budget. asarow was in vienna immediately after leaving office, and it does not matter whether he or his family are doing their obscene business in pötzleinsdorfer straße or singerstraße or anywhere else, our authorities can check what they are doing there and which eu citizens are in their service. unfortunately, one eu citizen is rob van de water, whom mr swoboda's predecessor chose as special adviser to his group on the eastern neighbourhood policy. ukrainska pravda reports today that mr van de water is apparently vice-chairman of the kljujev foundation's supervisory board and his wife, who worked here in the ep, is in charge of financing lobby groups in brussels for the interests of the party of regions. i think we need to distance ourselves from that and end this legacy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i had asked for mr arlacchi's opinion on a question concerning the 'blue card' procedure. i want to ask him a question, and you won't answer me!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. humanitarian aid must be neutral. it needs the recognition and consent of the parties to the conflict to be effective. even if you can unlock access to the population on one day, you cannot guarantee the supply beyond that one day. humanitarian aid cannot be forced by military force, and soldiers are not development workers. all experience shows that. in order to break the spiral of violence in the long term, dialogue between all parties to the conflict and a clear commitment to non-violence are needed. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the european public is also less willing to accept humanitarian military action. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but humanitarian aid does not require armed forces, and bombs do not bring peace. war must not be a means of politics!
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - madam president, allow me on behalf of the vice-president of the commission and high representative to make the following statement. honourable members, the situation in and around syria remains extremely difficult. since last year, most humanitarian statistics, such as the number of those affected in numerous ways by the fighting, have doubled. with 9.3 million syrians in need of outside assistance – half of them children – we have reached the limits of what the international community can do. the neighbouring countries are sheltering close to 3 million refugees. the european union continues to support them, but the dangers for lebanon and jordan, as well as threats to the territorial integrity of iraq, are real. at the united nations humanitarian conference hosted by kuwait, the european union pledged an additional eur 550 million for the relief effort in syria, raising its overall effort to eur 2.6 billion. yet the united nations’ unprecedented fundraising appeal of eur 6.5 billion clearly shows the urgency of settling the conflict, as the capacity of international donors is reaching its limits. the international community worked hard in kuwait, but only slightly more than a third of that sum was raised. that is why the recent launch of the geneva conference on syria on 22 january in montreux is so important. as was stressed by the high representative and vice-president in montreux, the geneva conference on syria is unique, as it has a clear political legitimacy, set out in united nations security council resolution 2118, to work together to fully implement the geneva communiqué of 30 june 2012. progress in the first round of negotiations has been slow, but the parties are now talking to each other, and we need to remind ourselves that reaching the goals stated in the geneva communiqué will be an arduous process. the european union considers that it is important to maintain a double-track approach by discussing the difficult issue of a political transition and at the same time promoting confidence-building measures that could alleviate some of the suffering being experienced by the syrian people. even small progress that would, for example, enable more humanitarian access to those trapped in the conflict zones would be a success which would help to sustain the negotiations. the tactics of ‘starve and surrender’ practised by the regime must end. yet our responsibility goes beyond our humanitarian obligations and supporting the geneva process. that it is why it should be our ambition to reach out to groups that have not taken up arms and can play a role in settling the conflict. here the role of women is crucial, and in her meetings with the syrian women in switzerland, high representative ashton promised a dedicated european union effort to support their role in the envisioned transition. the european union also has the ambition to look beyond the conflict and assist in educating and training young syrians, who will be key to syria’s future. to this effect, the european union is planning to develop an ambitious training programme in cooperation with our member states. honourable members, syria’s crisis has profoundly affected its neighbours. they must be applauded for their efforts to host an increasing number of syrian refugees. it is important to reiterate that the european union’s support to syria now focuses mainly on syrians who have fled to neighbouring countries, and that our support is also addressed to the host countries and communities. we will also maintain all other forms of assistance, including those targeting areas under the control of the opposition, to maintain and develop most vital services. with these and many other efforts, the european union will help syrians to reach their goal of living in dignity, freedom and democracy. i would like to reemphasise that the european union will continue in its humanitarian efforts and spare no effort to deliver life-saving and medical aid to besieged areas. there is little doubt that the geneva process will be a long and complex one, but we must work relentlessly with all partners in the international community to reach the desired goal of a peaceful and reunited syria.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the syrian conflict is about internal difficulties, but it is also the battlefield of others. there's a substitute war going on there, too. first of all, we should make clear to those who want to secure their interests in syria from outside, from iran to russia to saudi arabia or whoever, that they should make their contribution to peace. i continue to believe that the violence that the assad regime initially used against the civilian population is part of this dramatic conflict that has now led to such incredible developments that 9.3 million citizens are directly affected by the war, 6.5 million are refugees in syria alone. i was in lebanon recently. when i see that there are one million refugees from syria in a country of four million people, it becomes clear what incredible conditions this can lead to for individuals. it's heartbreaking! i hope that the international community will now finally live up to its obligation to put things right here. that is why i think it is important that we have now succeeded in cleaning up the chemical weapons, and i hope that we can do so more quickly than before. i also hope that what lakhdar brahimi has achieved, that the government and the opposition sit down at a table, is driven by a responsibility, that now you do not rely on tactical posturing and that means that people die every day again - 130 000 have already died - but that you can make agreements in responsibility to your own people so that the situation improves. commissioner, i think it is good that the european union has been generous in its aid to refugees and disaster relief, as i said. but we also know that this is not enough, that destabilization can also occur in countries like jordan or lebanon. we should also look at the burden that lies on turkey here. this is supposed to be a show of international solidarity. i hope that as a first step it will be possible to create humanitarian corridors from geneva, so that humanitarian aid can also be sent to the rebel areas, in order to alleviate the suffering of the people and to establish lasting peace in a united syria.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - i know . mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the migratory flows facing bulgaria and other countries on the external borders of the union, and particularly in south-eastern europe, are closely linked to the deterioration of the situation in syria. due to its geographical location, bulgaria hosts a large number of persons in need of international protection. it is one of the member states most exposed to the consequences of the syrian crisis. the council has taken note of the recent report of the united nations high commissioner for refugees of january 2014. the report refers to the difficulties faced by persons in need of international protection, which naturally also concerns bulgaria, particularly with regard to the conditions under which these persons are hosted. similar questions have been raised by some non-governmental organisations. i need not stress that member states have an obligation to ensure that reception conditions are in line with international and european standards for persons in need of international protection. we fully recognise the challenges facing member states receiving an unprecedented influx of people under similar conditions. the bulgarian authorities in particular have demonstrated, at a higher political level, their willingness to respond to the challenge appropriately and adequately. however, reception facilities are not only limited but already overcrowded, thus making meeting the needs of people from syria a major, undoubtedly, challenge. the un high commissioner's report to which i refer points to the various initiatives which have been taken to identify suitable accommodation facilities for the additional persons in need of protection and to determine the means of making these facilities operational. the report also acknowledges that these initiatives have already helped to improve the situation. the commission has organised a mission to bulgaria last week to assess the situation and i am sure that it is able to provide more information on its findings. we are particularly grateful for the interest and concern of the european parliament in this matter. i know that some members of parliament have visited bulgaria relatively recently to see the challenges facing that country. particular attention should also be paid to the points of entry into the european union of persons leaving syria. we are aware that a number of initiatives have been taken in this area and we appreciate their valuable contribution to the rescue and relief facilities. the european union is also providing practical assistance to bulgaria. a total of eur 20 million has been allocated to assist member states particularly exposed to migratory pressures and flows to improve their national capacities. this funding, although limited, is intended to improve reception capacity, management capacity, control and recording capacity and support for border management activities. the council will continue to take all necessary initiatives to alleviate the suffering of syrian citizens seeking protection and support within the european union. bulgaria is one of the european union member states most exposed to these pressures and we are therefore ready to consider any measure that could assist the bulgarian authorities in addressing these pressures and in their efforts to provide appropriate services to persons in need of protection.
member of the commission. - mr president, mr president of the council, honourable members, the commission is very concerned about the continuing migratory pressures on front-line eu member states, in particular bulgaria. i must stress the important work that has been done by the bulgarian authorities up to now, in cooperation with the commission, the european asylum support office (easo), the united nations high commissioner for refugees (unhcr), ngos and some other member states, to try to avoid further deterioration of the situation. the situation has been contained and stabilised. for the time being, it is not getting worse. however, many serious challenges need to be overcome: for instance, with regard to the situation of migrants and asylum seekers in accommodation centres; tackling the backlog of asylum cases; and integration of those people in need of international protection who have been granted the right to stay in bulgaria. given the severity and the urgency of the situation developing, the vulnerability of the people in need of international protection and the potential impact of this situation on the proper functioning of the dublin regulation, it is clear that the situation in bulgaria is very serious and requires urgent action. this could be the first occasion to activate the crisis management mechanism that we recently agreed on, under the article 33 of the dublin iii regulation. the early warning, preparedness and crisis management machinery provided for in article 33 is not meant to put any blame on a given country, and this house as co-legislator knows that very well. it is in many ways a mechanism of solidarity. activation of the mechanism would recognise the existence of particular pressure in a given country. it offers political and material solutions both for the national system under strain and to the human beings – the asylum seekers – who are in distress. the use of article 33 would send a strong signal that bulgaria is not alone and that the commission and the member states are committed to supporting this particular member state in order to overcome the crisis. it is a call for solidarity with bulgaria, and that could take many forms: material, operational or financial contributions. as the existing eu support for bulgaria will continue, this decision would mean, in practical terms, that bulgaria would need to develop, in liaison with the commission and easo, a dedicated action plan responding to the concerns identified. the bases for such an action plan are already available. given the number of actors involved – the commission, easo, unchr, the international organisation for migration (iom), ngos, several member states and also third countries – the action plan would provide an instrument to steer the measures and monitor achievement of the objectives set out by the bulgarian authorities, so as to avoid structural problems in the functioning of the dublin system. the action plan would also ensure a long-term strategy for the problems in bulgaria’s asylum system, including the development of integration measures for those who will stay in bulgaria, and it should help to prevent further crises in the future. long-term planning is, of course, necessary. it is unlikely that the pressure on our external borders, including in bulgaria, will cease in the near future. last but not least, a plan would allow for further emergency assistance if necessary, and it would have to cover both the immediate phase of the response, while the support continues, and the period beyond. the commission will, of course, keep the council and parliament updated on developments.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the current item on the agenda makes this matter concrete for us in europe, because people are knocking on the door of europe's borders and asking for help. i would like to begin by thanking all the neighbouring countries around syria, on behalf of the epp group, for their enormous efforts in taking in refugees. but europe is also called upon to act at this frontier, and europe's humanity is being tested. we had read in the european newspapers in recent weeks about the incidents in bulgaria with the construction of the border fence. europe is shutting itself off, europe is building walls, europe is turning away syrian refugees -- those were the headlines we had to read. that is why we are having this discussion today. the impression that europe is isolating itself is not acceptable. we must make this clear in the european debate in the european parliament today. bulgaria, like other countries, has a special responsibility because it borders these crisis regions. i also appeal to the socialist government in bulgaria not to use this issue for domestic policy. they know that the socialist government there does not have a majority of its own but depends on the support of the radical right-wing ataka party. i hope that this background, the political composition in sofia, does not lead to the syrian refugees not being helped. the epp's position is clear: we are dealing with refugees who, under european law, deserve help. we ask turkey to help us to solve the problems on this border together. we want the eu standards to be respected, as the commissioner has said. we are committed to financial solidarity with the countries on the european union's external borders, and we also call on the other member states of the european union to significantly increase the quotas for syrian refugees so that we can help accordingly. europe is called upon to act together! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you for asking. i would like to expressly acknowledge once again the achievements of bulgaria at the external border, where special demands are made of the country. but the current government must be satisfied with the question of why these headlines are coming now, why the border fence has been built now. the link with the formation of a government with the participation of a radical party, namely the ataka party, a definitely right-wing party, is something that needs to be discussed here in the european parliament. i hope that the socialists will also be sufficiently critical of their own governing parties. that's what sofia's all about.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i just wanted to ask again, in the interest of order, who he meant by that. did you mean syrian refugees or any other people or people in general who are at the border and want to go to the eu, for example? i'd like to know that again.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i wonder what else has to happen before people realise that the eu's asylum policy cannot continue for another day. of course, the treatment of syrian refugees in bulgaria is an absolute scandal! you have to say that once. and another wall is the last thing we need in europe. but i ask you, in all seriousness, whether it is enough to reprimand bulgaria verbally, to hand over a few funds to it, to talk about action plans. the eu's recently adopted asylum package has not changed the situation of refugees at all! there are no uniform standards for a humane asylum policy and dublin iii is really synonymous with a policy of inhumanity. that's right! we are talking about bulgaria now, and an hour later we are talking about greece. we can talk about any member state and find deficits, big deficits! and when you decided to cut the budget here in this parliament, you also decided to cut the funds for asylum seekers. it is much better to throw the money for eurosur, for frontex, for eurodac out the window to get rid of refugees. and i say to you, i am sick and tired of this hypocrisy, where crocodile tears are shed while nothing changes for refugees!
i have to say, madam president, egypt is one of the most important arab and islamic countries. the constitution can be a basis for good development, but it is no guarantee. it depends on the constitutional reality. the crucial point is that there is reconciliation between the different social groups. we must say no to violence, from any side, and the army can make an important contribution to the reconciliation of the egyptian people. the crucial thing is that before the legal system in egypt, all people are equal because all people have the same dignity. this also means that all religious communities - the peaceful muslims, of course, but also christians, copts, the jewish community and other communities - are fully recognised in their rights and can live their faith. we expect openness in egyptian society and abroad. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. we expect this to be corrected and we call for this injustice to be righted. i would like - and i am sure we all would like - that the dreams and hopes of these wonderful young people i met in tahrir square in february 2011, who want to live like us - with a value system, with democracy, with freedom, with law - become a reality in this great country of egypt.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - i know . madam president, although the rotating presidency of the council does not participate in the summits held by the european union with russia or other third countries, we are pleased to inform you of what happened at the eu-russia summit last week. the summit gave the opportunity, at a crucial juncture, apparently because of the ukrainian crisis, to discuss openly fundamental issues in europe's relations with russia. it is necessary to send a strong message that recent critical developments must be addressed in order to put our partnership on a right track. this concerns our different approach to the eastern partnership and ukraine, but also to certain trade issues which are friction points, points which could easily be resolved. the commitments made in the wto and those relating to human rights and fundamental freedoms must be respected. in this respect, the dialogue we had with mr lavrov in the council of ministers and the dialogue we had at the last foreign affairs council, with the ministers of the member states alone, on our relations with russia, was very useful. the council held a frank and open debate on these issues. we particularly welcome the russian federation's readiness to join such a discussion. we believe that russia is aware both of the challenges these developments pose to our relations and that it has a strong interest in maintaining this cooperation with the european union in the most constructive framework possible. i know that commissioner füle, who has made a very important effort on the eastern partnership, will have more to say on these issues and on the outcome of the talks. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the eu is by far russia's largest trading partner, accounting for 45% of total russian export trade, and russia is the eu's third largest trading partner, after the us and china. security in our common continent and beyond can only be achieved if russia and the eu work closely together. in this context, it is important to note that eu-russia cooperation on foreign policy issues was positively assessed during the summit. both sides appreciated their good cooperation on the issue of iran's nuclear programme, and russia congratulated hr/vp catherine ashton on her personal contribution to the successful outcome of the e3+3 talks, and in order to reach a permanent solution with iran, it remains vital that this very good eu-russia cooperation continues. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the eu has emphasized the need to provide humanitarian aid to the syrian people, and this was a key point in our interventions in monterrey, in those made by mrs ashton and all the foreign ministers of the member states who happened to be invited and attended at the initiative of the un secretary-general at that meeting. obviously the situation in ukraine played an important role at the summit, but it was not the only issue. russia proposed to resume trilateral talks on ukraine, but the eu did not accept this proposal because bilateral relations are bilateral. the agreement to open bilateral expert consultations on the eastern partnership and dcftas and their possible consequences for the russian economy is an important development. we hope that these meetings will provide a constructive dialogue between the eu and russia in the coming period, a dialogue which will improve cooperation and understanding, in view of the next summit on 3 june in sochi. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, including the establishment of a common foreign and security policy. in this we both reiterated our commitment to cooperate in countering the terrorist threat, based on respect for the rule of law and human rights. ladies and gentlemen, given recent events, the summit was not expected to be particularly easy. however, we have been able to speak frankly as the european union, and i think that this frankness has also been there on the other hand, so we have made a good start in putting our relationship back on track. there are many issues that we can only tackle through close cooperation. so both the eu and russia have a strong interest in working together. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think we were able to achieve both during the summit last week.
member of the commission. - madam president, honourable members, thank you for this opportunity to debrief the house on the 32nd european union-russia summit, which took place on 28 january in brussels. this summit was a defining moment in european union-russia relations. president van rompuy and president barroso had been very clear that this could not be a ‘business-as-usual’ meeting. instead, they wished to focus on a frank discussion on the meaning and direction of this strategic partnership. the summit thus consisted of a restricted meeting among principals, a lunch in a slightly enlarged format – which included high representative and vice-president ashton and foreign minister lavrov – and a press conference. there were three fundamental points that the european union made very clear during these frank and open talks. first, russian pressure on our eastern partners is unacceptable. our common neighbours must be free to decide for themselves which political and economic associations they wish to conclude. the european union made it very clear that it expects russia to respect our partners’ choices and not to interfere with the signing of association agreements/dcftas with georgia and the republic of moldova this year. secondly, following russia’s accession to the wto in august 2012, russia has not lived up to its commitments. we are concerned about an increasing number of trade protectionist measures which hurt european union businesses. in fact, russia is now a global leader in this area: together with its customs union, russia has been responsible for a full third of all protectionist measures introduced in 2013, and for a fifth of all such measures currently in place. thirdly, there are too many other commitments russia is not honouring, including in the area of human rights. in order to benefit from – and indeed develop – our strategic partnership, we need to build more trust, and this can only be done on the basis of honouring commitments. russia was ready to engage in a frank and constructive discussion on these points. russia also raised its concerns and interests, in particular on energy. president putin stated that russia had no problem in principle with the eastern partnership, but he raised a number of economic concerns, which in all fairness are disputable. it was agreed to hold bilateral consultations on a technical level to address a number of questions the russian side has with regard to what they see as potentially negative consequences of the association agreements/dcftas for the russian economy. the summit also agreed to continue informal consultations on the possibilities for a new agreement between the european union and russia. we hope to be able to re-launch the negotiations at the next summit in june, if there is enough substance for a meaningful agreement. ukraine, syria and iran were also discussed. a joint statement on counter-terrorism cooperation was adopted.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. let me start with a sentence: as long as the member states of the european union do not speak with one voice on russia policy, that is to say, there is no real common policy on russia, we will always be the losers in this game! we see this in connection with ukraine and other issues. i believe that the race of some european countries to moscow, because they think they can do their own business in energy policy and many other things, is not in the interests of common strength. at the same time, i would like to say that relations with russia should be positive. at the end of the day, we have common interests. russia also has common interests. i believe that only if russia has a reasonable local economic development and does not depend only on the sale of commodities, russia has a long-term development opportunity. and i believe that this can only be achieved in cooperation with the european union. these common interests, which may also be of a strategic nature, should be considered. but it also means that russia - if we want to move this strategic partnership forward, if we want to have a new partnership agreement - has to see that you behave decently in the neighborhood. it must be clear that near abroad no longer applies, that states that are independent are independent in their decisions, that the way they go is decided in those countries, and not in brussels, berlin, london or moscow. i think that this too must be clear, and that is why we must not, as in the case of ukraine or with pressure on moldova, with transnistria or in the other cases - in armenia we have a similar case - exert pressure which does not comply with the rules and is purely power politics and does not belong to a reasonable neighbourhood. i think that russia also needs to know that it is necessary to recognize sovereign states and to respect non-discrimination itself, to respect human rights, to allow political opposition to be fully possible. i think we'd have a wonderful partnership, but we're a long way from that. i hope that sochi could not just be a respite, but that we work after sochi in this sensible way, in order to bring europe and russia together in this way!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the resolution is disproportionately long in the shortness and conciseness of the eu-russia summit and contains many points which we have already discussed at length elsewhere. this is perhaps an example of how we have been doing things for a long time. we may not need two eu-russia summits a year. if we have so little to say to each other, i'm sure one would be enough. we need a strategic partnership, but we don't have one. the only positive thing i can see from this summit is that president putin has offered to negotiate a new cooperation and partnership agreement. in this respect, we have apparently been running at zero for the last few years under president medvedev. president putin wants a free trade zone from lisbon to vladivostok. it would be interesting to know why he then closes himself off to a free trade area from lisbon to kiev/donetsk and blocks it.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. this is good, but he should also admit, with a self-critical attitude, that the logic currently governing political relations between the eu and russia is one tooth for a tooth. first, it was the content, now, obviously, the format. the last summit was about the length of a stopover between two flights. we have talked, yes, but what is more worrying is that obviously not everything was discussed at the summit. not a word about the many real questions that are open. in particular, no word on the spiral of renewed mutual threat potential in the form of shields and missiles. the summit was like a suitcase without a handle, a suitcase that cannot be carried anywhere, the bbc commented afterwards. that 's the problem . the eu foreign ministers and their colleagues in the commission have obviously run out of ideas on how to shape the common and the sense - as mr brok rightly said today - of mutual interests and an equal advantage has been lost. to keep with dostoevsky: in the brothers karamazov, he writes that a realist does not believe in miracles unless he is a believer: so, miracles have to be created. i can only ask the council and the commission to present a concrete road map with appropriate measures by the next summit.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr stadler, i am actually familiar with your party's positions and i do not like them at all. the austrian right has not so far struck me by its desire to simply transfer european taxpayers' money to eastern europe without any conditions attached to it. the fact that ukraine is now being offered membership is also something i have not heard from you before. is that what you're thinking?
i have to say, madam president, strategic partnership is defined by shared objectives and shared responsibilities. and in the hours of need, in the three hours of need that this summit has been, it has become clear how necessary it is that both sides talk to each other about these goals, look for them when they are no longer found, but also talk about shared responsibility. i admit that was a little bit of a stretch, but on the other hand it has become clear that through our joint cooperation agreement we could get things going again if there is good will. the joint discussions on our neighbourhood policy could help us to clarify where they have not really or seemingly been sufficient. and a common project is the fight against terrorism once and for all. unfortunately, we did not discuss visa-free travel. this is still not a generous gesture to me, but something that benefits both sides. the sochi games start the day after tomorrow. i am glad that several hundred thousand young people will meet there and hopefully have a good time together. and when they travel over there from our side, we can only call out to them: talk to the young people in russia. tell them what we're like. talk to those who work in the ngos, and talk to those who are gay, lesbian or straight! make them strong through conversation! and if they do, they will probably have achieved more than we will with this 120th resolution tomorrow.
i have to say, madam president, in russian, the term for government is prawitelstwo. but in everyday speech, no one uses this word, the government is simply and poignantly called "wlast", "power". this is the understanding of russian power and the exercise of power in the area between the russian federation and the european union. it's about power. this summit was not a summit, it was a descent from the summit. it would also be necessary to finally drop the rhetoric that we are no longer talking about a strategic partnership with russia, which is not a possibility. russia is a strategic competitor. it's that simple. that there is cooperation here and there - energy supplies, counter-terrorism - is not in question. but as mr fleckenstein said, where are the common values, where are the common objectives that are needed for a strategic partnership? there's no such thing. the russian approach to ukraine is a clear example of this. that means we just have to be sober about this issue, we have to be sober about talking to the russians. we have to soberly shape the status quo. we cannot offer ukraine membership now. we must be sober about organizing a peaceful coexistence, maintain a status quo from which everyone can benefit. we need partnership in foreign policy, we need the promotion of human rights in domestic policy, we need economic cooperation. these objectives may one day constitute a strategic partnership, but today we are certainly not there yet. russia is basically a status quo power that wants to keep all the conflicts - transnistria, abkhazia, etc. - going. the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe. it's not working. we can only resolve this through sober dialogue and a very clear view of things.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. again, people, again, children have died in the flight. the greek coast guard has informed in writing that there has been an operation at farmakonisi. neither frontex forces nor european-funded equipment were involved. the greek coast guard's report is diametrically opposed to the refugees' report. the report of the coast guard, contrary to public reports, is not a conclusion of frontex, but the presentation of the greek authorities. frontex cannot and shall not carry out an analysis in the event of non-participation. i therefore welcome the investigation by the greek prosecutor, as it is the first step towards full disclosure. as long as national coastal units operate in problem areas on their own, without frontex's involvement, there will be more and more uncertain situations like this. this is why as many if not all operations should be carried out in cooperation. frontex is the neutral institution serving all stakeholders. we want to save refugees, support national authorities and implement european standards where necessary. prejudicial attacks on greek border guards are unacceptable. they too have a right to fair treatment and, in particular, unjustified attacks on frontex officials are also unacceptable. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i think that the termination of the joint operation poseidon sea is completely wrong, because that would of course mean giving up the eu's overview and control completely.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - i know . mr president, i welcome the students from bosnia-herzegovina and wish them good luck and success in their lives, in their careers and in their national careers. let me remind you that the present greek presidency of the council is the fifth in history, since greece joined the then european communities in 1981. the two previous presidencies, 1994 and 2003, were associated with the great waves of enlargement of the european union. we have had the good fortune and the honour of seeing the europe of 12 become the europe of 15 and the europe of 15 become the europe of 27. the thessaloniki 2014 agenda of our last presidency focused on the european perspective of all the western balkan states. this is still our priority and strategic pursuit. the fact that croatia is already a member of the european union is important. i had the honour a few days ago of chairing the intergovernmental conference on the opening of the european union-serbia accession negotiations, an equally important event which undoubtedly affects croatia's european prospects. also important will be the conferral of candidate membership status on albania in june, in line with the conclusions of the european council of 19 december and on the basis of our work in the general affairs council on 17 december 2013. the european union has a duty to help the people of bosnia-herzegovina, and i am sure that the european union will do its utmost to help the people of bosnia-herzegovina. these problems must be overcome. these are problems which are mentioned both in the commission report and in the council conclusions of december. the council expresses its grave concern at the completion of the process of integration of bosnia-herzegovina into the european union. we want to see real political will on the part of the political leadership of bosnia-herzegovina. the elections are scheduled for october. we do not want the electoral process to be a hindrance to initiatives that will strengthen the european perspective of the country. the political leadership of bosnia and herzegovina must urgently reach an agreement on the implementation of the well-known sejdić-finci judgment of the european court of human rights. this is a vital issue for the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement. it is very important to create a coordination mechanism for european union issues so that the country can speak with one voice on these issues. unfortunately, the commission was forced to postpone further discussion on the pre-accession facility 2 due to the absence of this mechanism. it is a pity that the country's institutions and leadership cannot meet the conditions set by the european union, because we are wasting time. it is also very important to refocus the attention of our friends in bosnia and herzegovina on the issues of the rule of law, including judicial reform and the fight against corruption and organised crime, as well as the handling of war crimes cases. equally important are reform of public administration, safeguarding freedom of expression, and the need to avoid intimidation of journalists. no discrimination, including that concerning roma, should be applied. the commission has already made a number of recommendations in the framework of the structured dialogue on justice, which are being implemented. we therefore welcome the smooth conduct of the long-awaited census and look forward to the publication of the results. i also mention the economic reforms needed to improve the business environment. efforts are needed to make progress towards a functioning market economy and to tackle unemployment. we also welcome the recent adoption of the amendments to the electoral law. i now turn to the question of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. i would remind you that the council, in its conclusions of december 2013, noted the political crisis created by the known events that took place on 24 december 2012 in parliament. these events have brought to light deep divisions between the political parties which undermine the ability of parliament to function properly. the political crisis has also highlighted problems in the government's handling of the media and demonstrated the need for an immediate resumption of the government's dialogue with media workers. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. the council welcomed the contribution of the high-level accession dialogue to the progress achieved on most priority issues, including those concerning pending cases in the courts in the fight against corruption. the council stressed the need to pay particular attention to the rule of law, with particular emphasis on the independence of the judiciary, the fight against corruption and organised crime, the need to protect freedom of speech and the legal and de facto status of the media. all of these are open issues that need to be addressed. the office for democratic institutions and human rights of the organization for security and cooperation in europe has also pointed out the need for clarity in the relations between the state and the ruling party in the context of the electoral process. the council's view is that the evaluation of the implementation of the ohrid framework agreement, which is of particular importance for international relations, should be completed and the proposals implemented. the strategy for the roma must be put into practice, high unemployment must be tackled and public finances must be managed more efficiently. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. this includes, in the context of good neighbourly relations and in the spirit of respect for international law, the question of finding a mutually acceptable solution to the name, as regards the open name issue, in the context of the negotiations conducted on the basis of the relevant decisions of the un security council and under the auspices of the secretary-general, through his personal representative, ambassador nimetz. it is necessary to conclude these negotiations which have been going on for many years and to arrive at a final solution. we want, and i am speaking as the greek foreign minister, for this to happen as soon as possible. let me make a small national offence. the greek position is moderate, conciliatory and specific. i had the opportunity yesterday, speaking in the greek parliament, to reiterate for the tenth time that greece accepts a name which is a composite, geographical designation for the term macedonia. this allows for a distinction from the greek regions also called macedonia and helps us to overcome any suspicion of irredentism. we are thus establishing a framework of good neighbourly relations and we respect the decisions of the security council and the efforts of the secretary-general and mr nimetz. the proposal is very specific. it is a proposal which guarantees the integrity of the dialogue and the dignity of all parties, but it must of course be a final solution. it has to be final and it has to be complete. we have to agree on a compromise, a compound name with a geographical designation, but a name for each use, internal and external. the objection that the constitutional name cannot be changed and the constitution cannot be revised is not understood in the european union because in the member countries of the european union we have, little by little, revisions of the national constitutions to adapt to changes in european law or the case law of the european court of human rights. the single european constitutional area is being shaped by continuous changes in national constitutions and, of course, the ohrid agreement itself already functions as a mechanism for constitutional changes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the council has taken note of the ongoing high-level contacts between the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and bulgaria and looks forward to their development into concrete actions and results. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the council took note of the commission's proposal to open accession negotiations. we shall be considering these matters in the near future, around june. of course, what matters is to see what reforms will have been implemented in the meantime, on the basis of the high level accession dialogue, including the implementation of the political agreement of 1 march 2013. the council called for concrete steps to be taken to promote good neighbourly relations and to reach an acceptable solution to the name issue. let me add that, despite the active participation of this country in various regional initiatives, such as the regional cooperation council and the south-east european cooperation process, greater efforts must be made to ensure that it plays a clear constructive role in the wider region. finally, as regards montenegro, the council in its conclusions of last december welcomed the progress made by montenegro in the past year. this progress includes both constitutional amendments to strengthen the independence of the judiciary and the adoption of the integrated action plans for chapter 23 on the judiciary and fundamental rights and chapter 24 on justice, freedom and security. montenegro also continues to implement its obligations under the stabilisation and association agreement and to play an active role in the western balkans region. the council also welcomed the participation of montenegro in efforts to further develop regional cooperation, which, together with the maintenance of good neighbourly relations, remains an essential element of the accession process. we believe that montenegro must pursue reforms with even greater intensity in order to address the shortcomings identified in the commission's annual progress report. particular attention should be paid to developing a stable framework for the good implementation of reforms in the areas of the rule of law, the fight against organised crime and corruption. further efforts are also needed to implement the constitutional amendments adopted to broaden participation in political life, to strengthen citizens' trust in public institutions and to respect freedom of expression. montenegro should also implement its strategy of public administration reform and address partisanship, enhance transparency, and improve the business environment. many of the issues covered in your report include the need to ensure the free operation of the media and to properly investigate and prosecute incidents of violence against journalists. it is important to stress that these reforms should not be implemented solely for the benefit of the european union but primarily to meet the legitimate expectations of the montenegrin citizens. the accession negotiations remain on track. a very important step was taken in december with the opening of five new chapters, including the very basic ones on the judiciary and fundamental rights, on justice, freedom and security. the council has examined almost all the reports comparing the community acquis and important chapters will be examined in the coming months. we also expect that the process of comparing the acquis communautaire with the legislation of montenegro will be completed during the six months of our presidency. of the 35 chapters, 7 have already been opened and 2 have already been temporarily closed. more chapters are expected to be opened at two further intergovernmental conferences scheduled for the current half-year. let me conclude by acknowledging and congratulating on behalf of the presidency of the council and the member states the work of parliament in this parliamentary term in support of this whole process of stabilisation in the region. we are grateful for your contribution to the process of enlargement of the european union and appreciate your expertise and dedication to this cause. i would like to thank the rapporteurs, doris pack, richard howitt and charles tannock, in particular, for their dedication and hard work.
member of the commission. - mr president, thank you for your invitation to participate in today’s joint debate, and to the presidency for presenting the views of the 29. let me first of all express my gratitude to doris pack for her report on bosnia and herzegovina, to richard howitt for his report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and to charles tannock for his report on montenegro. all three reports are well balanced and accurately reflect the findings of the commission’s 2013 progress reports on the three countries. unfortunately, nearly every year, the debate on bosnia and herzegovina looks like a replay. we seem to have to live through the same reality over and over again. as the draft resolution points out, progress in bosnia and herzegovina has again been extremely limited over the last year. i share parliament’s concern and call for a shift away ‘from nationalist and ethnocentric rhetoric coming from the leadership of the three constitutive peoples in bosnia and herzegovina.’ in numerous marathon meetings in sarajevo, brussels, budapest and prague, i have tried to help the political leaders to focus on implementing the first step of the roadmap of the high level dialogue on the implementation of the sejdić-finci ruling of the european court of human rights. i was in sarajevo less than three weeks ago to discuss a model of constitutional changes and an electoral law to implement this ruling. we saw some closing of the gaps, but no breakthrough. i plan to chair another meeting soon. success in this area would finally allow the stabilisation and association agreement to come into force. it is also one of the preconditions for the submission of a credible membership application. 2014 will be an important year for the country: we will do our utmost to make sure that the general elections in october live up to european standards. the european union will also continue to work with bosnia and herzegovina in order to achieve an efficient and effective coordination mechanism. we will keep the door to the european union open for bosnia and herzegovina, but it will have to walk through this door of its own accord. turning to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, i would like to start with two remarks. first, in october last year, the commission, once again, decided to renew its recommendation to open negotiations with the country. we continue to believe that opening negotiations will contribute to maintaining the pace and sustainability of reforms and to strengthening inter-ethnic relations. second, 2013 was in many ways a lost year for the country, and the commission has called for urgent measures to be taken in key areas such as the independence and competence of courts, media freedom and electoral reform. we have also stressed that the review of the ohrid framework agreement needs to be completed. we welcome that there have been some positive developments over the past weeks in some of these areas, including an inter-party agreement on electoral reform. we hope that the amendments to the electoral legislation will help to create a solid legal environment for competitive elections and a level playing field for candidates in the presidential elections scheduled for spring. the cross-party agreement on electoral reform demonstrates that national interests can be put before party interests. the country should build on its consensus and move forward through mature political dialogue in other areas as well. this is the only way to prevent a recurrence of the political crisis that the country went through following the events of 24 december 2012. the european commission will continue to support the country in addressing all these challenges through regular dialogue and targeted financial cooperation. good neighbourly relations are an essential part of the country’s progress towards european integration. the country has good relations with all of its western balkans neighbours, but its relations with greece remain affected by the name issue. relations with bulgaria are affected by different understandings over historical and cultural issues. renewed efforts from all sides are needed to improve relations, and trust between the parties needs to be strengthened. with a clear strategic vision, consistent action and the support of all political forces, i am confident that this can be achieved. as regards montenegro, the december intergovernmental conference marked a milestone in the accession negotiations, with the opening of the rule of law chapters, 23 and 24. this was also the result of montenegro’s intensive work on the detailed action plans that the government had adopted during the summer. we now expect the action plans to be implemented according to the set deadlines, so that montenegrin citizens can see and feel the benefits. respect for the rule of law is a pre-condition for accession to the european union. but it is also – and even more importantly – in the interest of montenegro and its citizens. while the implementation of many measures foreseen in the action plans is on track, there are pending measures such as the revision of the legislative framework on political parties and electoral campaign financing, which has to be completed without further delay. today, the justice and home affairs subcommittee met in podgorica, where the report prepared by the montenegrin authorities on the implementation of the action plans was discussed. the report is public, and available for consultation by civil society and the media. recent attacks against the media are unacceptable. avoiding impunity for the perpetrators is the best tool to prevent such crimes in the future. progress on chapters 23 and 24 will determine the pace of the negotiation process as a whole. even more importantly, we have high expectations that work on both chapters will have a positive impact on the situation on the ground. it is now up to all relevant actors in montenegro to deliver results on these issues. this will require strong political will and commitment by montenegro’s leadership. let me assure you that we will continue to closely monitor progress with the authorities.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council! i was recently told by a political leader in bosnia and herzegovina that we are all illusionists. but i have no illusions about him, because he does not want this state of bosnia and herzegovina and is doing everything to boycott it. we want the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina to be able to live together in an orderly democratic community and to make the path to the eu. and this is not an illusion, but a vision that must be put into practice step by step, as in other countries in the region. the same man, the same politician, has also dismissed this resolution as hollow and unnecessary. he was too cowardly to say the same about the commission's progress report, but he certainly meant it. we see that the patient and really solid commitment of the commission and the high commissioner's representatives in bosnia and herzegovina is ridiculed, accepted, and if there is money left, it is gladly taken, but otherwise we are all illusionists. i can only say to commissioner füle, who has probably spent 50 hours with these gentlemen trying to find a solution to the problem, that i am very sorry for him. the political will of these leaders is simply lacking. we can't change that, they can only change it on the ground. the inability of all the leading politicians to find compromises to finally agree on the sejdić and finci cases, for example, is crying foul! this never-ending debate also distorts the view of many other problems of the country - in the field of jobs, in the field of energy, in the field of agricultural policy, in the field of veterinary medicine. i just want to say one thing: does anyone understand that we open up our education and youth programmes to these countries, to the young people there, but that it is not possible to really adopt these programmes because the politicians do not want there to be a joint agency at national level negotiating with the eu? it's a disgrace! i say to the students: you can use erasmus, but not everything else. (the president cut the speaker off) )
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this package has some positive aspects. on the one hand, we hope that this will lead to harmonization of technical requirements, and on the other hand, we will now have access to the european reserve fund, which currently has 35 million euros. but it's only a small step. we must indeed still succeed in strengthening inland waterway transport in a sustainable and sustainable way. we have also agreed in the white paper on transport to shift goods away from the road to the environmentally friendly modes of transport, namely rail and inland waterways. we have also consistently embedded this objective in the transeuropean transport networks. the question now is: what happens to implementation in the case of the action programme? it is clear that the reserve fund will not be sufficient, nor is it intended to bring the inland waterway sector to the fore. these funds are already earmarked for the training and further training of employees. but there are still many construction sites in the case of inland waterway transport: for example, we need to improve the interconnection between these different modes of transport - road, rail and water - in order to exploit the capacity of inland waterways. first of all, we need a quick conversion to the low-emission engines. we must also remember that we are not dealing with man-made transport routes, but with a piece of nature, a complex ecosystem that serves not only us but also the flora and fauna, and that we cannot simply reverse the interventions we make. so my three questions to the commission are: how can we create europe-wide incentives for member states to invest in inland waterway transport? what means, for example, under the connecting europe facility, can we use to do this? will the commission propose an overall strategy in this respect?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i can follow up without any fuss what my colleague mr ertug has just said. i'll start from the back. of course we want a strategy. what has been proposed in naiades ii, which we now welcome, is how to generate funds in the 2014-2020 funding period to bring inland navigation forward, but on a much too small scale. the aim is to make the reserve fund really accessible to small and mediumsized enterprises. these are the ones who operate inland waterway transport. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. but that's only one side of the coin. it is also a question of making the big move or of making progress in general in the sense of the white paper. we want a more environmentally friendly transport system. we are faced with the fact that we will definitely have an increasing traffic. we are becoming fewer people in europe, but more people in the world. we will have more international trade, because we europeans want to stay on top of things. there will be more traffic, and of course it can't stay on the road, a lot of freight, most of it is on the road anyway. and we want to move to rail and waterways because that's more environmentally friendly. the point is that, of course, particularly in the case of waterways, we must recognize that not all the potential that can be exploited has been exploited. but there is also the question of whether we want to exploit all the potential that is possible with inland waterways. we must also take account of many things in the field of tourism, nature and the like. but it's about, like, lifting bridges: that costs money. it is about opening up the inland ports: that costs money. the aim is to enable intermodal transport, i.e. to connect inland ports to other transport networks. it is already very good that we have now integrated inland waterways in six of the nine pan-european corridors in the ten-t guidelines. this is the first time, and i think it's very good. we do not have inland waterways all over europe, but they are particularly strong in the north and can be actively integrated. we need to look now in all programmes, not just horizon 2020, how can we improve this? so how can we bring science to bear on innovation? how can we ensure that lng liquefied gas for ships is also possible in the alternative energy infrastructure strategy, so that inland waterway transport becomes even more environmentally friendly? and how can we generally integrate inland waterway development projects into the connecting europe facility - this funding model for our corridors? these are all questions we naturally ask ourselves. we know that the commissioner has also said that the commission wants to take care of this. but we would like to have concrete strategies on the table.
the next item is the debate on uniform rules and procedures for the resolution of credit institutions and certain investment firms under a single resolution mechanism and a single bank resolution fund: outcome of the negotiations. i would point out that there is no catch-the-eye procedure in this debate. the 'blue card' procedure is also not applicable.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the resolution mechanism for banks, which we are now discussing, is an essential part of the banking union. it was also originally intended to limit the excessive impact and excesses of financial markets. but if we look at the whole debate, we must realize that we have made some big announcements in the end, both in terms of the proposals and the council's previous arguments and our discussion here in parliament, but perhaps in the end, when the banking union and the resolution mechanism have been confirmed, we will come to the conclusion that we may have jumped like lions but ended up as bedspreads. i therefore assume, mr president, that you will also make our positions very clear to the council, which is conspicuously absent from the council today, with a view to the transfer of a mandate to the greek presidency. i do not think it is wrong for the commission to be here, because i do not think that what we have to say is not also addressed to the commission. my group, for example, is not so convinced that the letter, the reply we have received from mr barroso to your question, to your letter, is a sufficient basis. i would also have liked the commission to have a clearer position, that is to say, that in this negotiating situation the commission should also state clearly what it wants to achieve and what is actually possible only if it really acts as the guardian of the treaties. but now to the state of the negotiations. we had the trilogue negotiations here yesterday. we shall certainly hear a brief assessment of this later. the fact is that there has been no movement at the council, either with regard to intergovernmental agreements or with regard to the decision-making processes in the event of a resolution. we are clearly demanding that we stick to article 114, that it be the community method. we also want to avoid parliament saying or even indicating that we might be prepared to accept a narrow mandate for intergovernmental agreements. we should be clear here: all important decisions in the resolution mechanism must be taken with the participation of the european parliament. i should also like to make it clear that we do not accept that the council will be the final decision-maker, because we know exactly how that works: the stronger member countries in the council then want to impose their own rules for themselves and for their banks, they make their own reservations, and then it happens again that there will be a socialisation of the private debts of the banks and the member countries, the taxpayers, will be asked to take over. the final consequence will of course be greater inequality between member states. that would only exacerbate the problem! i want to point out that we don't share that at all. i would like to make one more fundamental comment, in relation to what i meant by 'jumping like a lion and ending up as a bed-wetter': if we keep on debating this 'too big to fail' problem, we are in the end accepting that the banks are not being brought back to their real core business. we are discussing extremely complicated resolution mechanisms, rather than assuming that banks that are being downsized and are doing the core business for which they are responsible are then also capable of going bankrupt. we'll save ourselves a lot of paperwork. they're not really necessary at all. i want to make that very clear again. we have also received a legal opinion from the german federal ministry of finance a few days ago, which states that article 114 of the treaty is not sufficient, and that article 352 is needed for the fund. we consider the explanation given by the german finance ministry to be completely inadequate. there is no reason why we should deviate from article 114. i very much hope that not only the conservative part of the government, which is a grand coalition of two main partners, will prevail, but that the social democrats will also stick to what they have repeatedly stated in recent months and that they will also put pressure on the government itself to prevent the position of the conservative part from becoming the position of the council as a whole. this cannot work and must be prevented. i expect the social democrats to live up to their responsibilities here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we didn't cause this time pressure. the council is clearly responsible for the fact that the mandate has not been clearly defined. if we don't get to the end within the legislature, there's no decision. then there's none and then we have to renegotiate.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for inviting me to speak again this week on this major issue of banking union and this second pillar of banking union, after we have quickly and seriously built the first pillar, that of the supervision of all banks in the euro zone and of countries which would like to join the banking union on a voluntary basis before they even join the euro. i have often said, ladies and gentlemen, that in financial matters, as in environmental matters, prevention is cheaper than repair. supervision is prevention. but when it is necessary to repair something - and sometimes it is necessary to repair something - a prepared repair is always cheaper than an improvised or disorderly repair, which is ultimately paid for by the taxpayer. we're here now. i explained at length to you on tuesday the commission's position, which is broadly in line with the conviction that the resolution we are working on is both urgent, as corien wortman-kool said, and necessary. i would add that the commission, like your assembly, wants a good agreement, that is to say an agreement which is credible in its operation and in relation to the financial market players, setting up a robust, effective mechanism which ensures resolution and, where necessary, organises the orderly bankruptcy of banks without unnecessary delay and above all without making, as usual or as before, a systematic appeal to the taxpayer. i say that to mr terho, who was talking about the taxpayers. it is in this spirit that i took part in the trilogue yesterday and saw the constructive spirit. i am speaking in passing because i think that beyond these walls, mr president, we can have a friendly thought for her, who is away for health reasons and to whom we wish a speedy recovery but who, i know, is very attentive to the work we are doing. the council was also open yesterday, as mr venizelos said a few days ago. we have thus been able to review the various technical aspects of this text. we're talking about very complex issues. there are many issues of great scope which therefore warrant a substantive discussion. i would remind you that we are talking about resolutions of institutions which finance 75% of the european economy, businesses, territories and consumers, and whose difficulties have had a systemic impact on states and the economy throughout the crisis. that is why we must act within a limited time - i repeat - mrs wortmann-kool said so, without wasting time. that's what we've been doing all through this crisis. mr verhofstadt is not here; he was talking earlier about the lessons of the crisis. ladies and gentlemen, let us be fair to the work that you have done, that the council has done and that i have been able to do with all my teams. we have worked hard to learn from the crisis. nearly thirty laws have been proposed and most of them have been passed to learn from this crisis and, as the americans did for their part, in another way, with the dodd-frank act, to protect savers, to respect taxpayers and also to protect consumers and citizens. we're not finished. there is still the second pillar of banking union and there is still - i say this to mrs zimmer, who is not listening to me, but i think she will get the report... yes, mrs zimmer, i have listened to you and i wanted to tell you to pay attention to the last text i presented last week on behalf of the commission on the structural reform of the 30 largest banks, because we want to deal with this very issue to encourage them to do their job, as you said, mrs zimmer, which is to lend to the economy, which is to lend to businesses and consumers rather than speculate. but we must be honest, we still have a lot of work to do to reach an agreement. firstly, there is the very sensitive and central issue for your assembly, the intergovernmental agreement to which the ministers have committed themselves. he was wanted by the council. i told you on tuesday what the commission's position was on this point. we are convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that article 114 is the right basis. mr stoyanov, i have said and i confirm that we have a basis for action and for establishing the resolution fund: it is article 114. the only thing i can add or confirm about this intergovernmental agreement is that the use of such an agreement is not, as such, contrary to the treaty, according to our legal services, as it relates exclusively to the transfer and pooling of funds. our position is clear on this too, mrs zimmer, you asked me about this. president barroso has replied to president schulz and i remain at your disposal, as i was yesterday at the trilogue, to clarify the points of view and to answer all your questions, including those on the legal side. let me be clear, ladies and gentlemen. if your assembly finally decides to show a spirit of compromise on this very sensitive point, then my view is that the council - i hope it hears us - will have to assess this move properly and with due regard, to assess its importance and draw all the consequences for all the other aspects of the negotiations. in this respect, there are a number of points in the resolution mechanism which need to be the subject of real discussion and above all decisions, as well as all the issues under debate, as sharon bowles said earlier. i have mentioned a few points before you: the financing, the governance and the democratic accountability of the single resolution board. i have made proposals on each of these points, which i explained in detail during the trilogue. i should like to recall briefly the main aspects of this. firstly, we can consider speeding up the pooling of national compartments to achieve a common fund more quickly. and ideally, as mrs wortmann-kool said, a common fund from day one. i think that this could allow, in line with mr verhofstadt's idea, a limited duration for the intergovernmental agreement. secondly, we must also make progress on the backstop issue, even if it is not shared immediately and is being shared gradually. thirdly, it is also important to devise a mechanism which allows for rapid and effective decision-making with all the legal guarantees, real capacity for action and decision-making. mr. callanan is right. the mechanism must be effective in order to have the capacity to anticipate and prepare, as you said, mr callanan, for the crisis afterwards and not just to deal with the crisis before. finally, i believe that we must strengthen the democratic legitimacy of the mechanism we want to create, drawing on what has been done for the monitoring mechanism. in sum, ladies and gentlemen, all the subjects to be discussed are on the table. there are ways of compromise, but we must now move forward with determination because time is running out. i know your assembly is ready for it. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a breach of the directive on the free movement of goods and services is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction, and i would like to stress that the commission has already taken a number of steps to ensure that the directive is implemented in a uniform manner. there are countries which have not or have not yet adopted the single currency and the stability of the euro area is just as important to them. i want to ensure, in particular by applying the same rules for all, in particular the rules on state aid, the coherence of the single market with 28 countries which are all interested in the coherence of this market. we can move on. this will require, as mr swoboda and mr verhofstadt have said, a new mandate for the ecofin council. it's also the call you made that i can relay. the commission, for its part, is ready to play its part. she'll keep doing it. we are fully mobilized. all this, ladies and gentlemen, must enable us to build a genuinely european mechanism, as mr cohn-bendit has said and as you have said, mr swoboda, and not just an addition of authority and national interests. in any case, the commission is determined to work towards building a genuinely european mechanism. (applause) i would like to thank
i am grateful to the groups for their statements. i assume that we agree that the banking union is certainly one of the most important, if not the most important political project of this election period and that by adopting and establishing a single resolution mechanism we are creating a project of central importance for economic stability not only in the euro area but in the eu as a whole. the situation is as follows: the economic and monetary affairs committee of this house decided its position in december. the council adopted its position the following day. the two legislatures must now reach an agreement, a delicate compromise that will have a majority on both sides. i understand your remarks today as the chairman of the political group and as the chairman of the committee and rapporteur that you insist that the role of the european parliament as co-legislator is central to the overall procedure. in your remarks i was asked to point out two things: firstly, that this house is the place of democratic transparency and legitimacy, and secondly, that this house cannot accept being excluded as a legislator. they have asked me to write to the council asking for a special session of ecofin. this is what the groups have requested by a large majority. i shall therefore write to the council to that effect, adding that you, mr barnier, are prepared to take part in an early consultation on behalf of the commission. i shall pass this on to the council in its absence in this form.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. perhaps someone can explain to me, in a simple way, what this strange, strange and somewhat unusual procedure is about. i didn't understand it. the committee has decided to go into trilogue and not to vote in parliament. then the talks have begun. i thought that was fine. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. i've never experienced that either. then a decision will be made today. in addition, you will write a letter, and the normal procedure of the trilogue will be carried out in parallel. why is it that neither the one nor the other method is chosen here, but a mixed-use store? i don't understand the procedure. we've never done this before. is there a reason why we deviate from a clear procedure and mix these procedures? i just need to understand this. i'd have the idea of doing it this way in the future. (applause from the centre)
mr reul, i'll leave it to you to decide whether you're a simple-minded man. i am obliged to implement the decision of the conference of presidents. that's exactly what i did. the conference of presidents has requested that we hold a meeting here before the trilogue on wednesday. the conference of presidents has therefore decided that after yesterday's trilogue it will meet with the negotiating team this morning - that has happened - and that there will then be a round of group chairmen presenting the position of the various groups in the light of the results of yesterday's trilogue here. it just happened. the conference of presidents also decided - and this was 14 days ago - to put the amendments tabled by the econ committee at its meeting to the vote today, with the recommendation that there should be no final vote. i believe that the motivation of the conference of presidents was to signal to the council once again, by a large majority, what the position of econ is, supported by the plenary, in order to strengthen the negotiators in their negotiating capacity with the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would suggest that you discuss this again with the epp group leaders. i have faithfully carried out the decisions of the conference of presidents here. it wasn't my suggestion. it was a decision of the conference of presidents. but i agreed to it.
i'm not going to let you go. your words are absolutely justified. you asked to speak before the vote yesterday, in writing the night before. in that respect, they have acted perfectly correctly. it was a mistake on the part of the services, the vice-president-in-office, not to communicate this speech. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. after receiving your complaint, i also discussed it this morning at the conference of group chairmen and your group chairman also took note of it. we've worked it out. i have to tell you, where people work, mistakes happen. it was indeed a shortcoming of the meeting services, which have also apologized in every way for it. i ask you to accept this explanation. that's a real slip of the tongue. you should have been given the floor.
mr gollnisch, i'm not going to let you go. we have logically examined this question very closely from the point of view of the rules of procedure. the negative attitude of mr szymański to the report was known to most of the parties involved. this has also led to a relatively clear outcome of the vote. it was not the first time that the delvaux and szymański report had been discussed here. but quite independently of that, and without prejudice to the omission which is clearly to be criticised, rule 171 (5) of the rules of procedure is clear. it says: 'the president shall decide on the validity of the result declared. the decision is final. the decision was noted by mrs podimata, the president-in-office. that is why we are voting against the report. it's a regrettable development, but i can't change it like this.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. you may have noticed the two banners in the courtyard of the louise weiss building this morning calling for the release of journalists held hostage in syria. the european parliament wants to show journalists that 'we have not forgotten you'. and we should send their families a message: 'we are with you and will support you with all our strength.' syria is probably the most dangerous place in the world for journalists today. since 2011, 27 journalists and 98 citizen journalists have been killed in syria. 16 journalists are still being held hostage. some of them were kidnapped, others disappeared, many have been missing for months. among them are many fellow citizens from the eu countries, from france, from spain, from poland - they are our fellow citizens. i think you all admire, as i do, the courage of these men and women who risk their lives for a free press and for the right to information. we admire her commitment to a people who have been suffering increasingly from the escalating violence of the brutal civil war which has now lasted for three years. without the work of journalists, we would hardly know anything about the horrors of this war, about the torture, the massacre of innocent people, including children, and about the daily suffering of the population. today we remember all those journalists who lost their lives in this war, whether they were from europe, syria or elsewhere. we demand the immediate release of all imprisoned journalists.
the next item is the vote on the motions for resolutions. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
i should like to begin by extending a warm welcome to mr enrique iglesias, secretary-general of the ibero-american alliance, who is visiting the european parliament on the occasion of the eurolat summit. welcome to the club. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i just wanted to ask: was not the qualified majority required for this vote?
that would be the case for the next vote.
pursuant to rule 87a (6), third indent, of the rules of procedure, the presidency has received objections from the edf group and the ecr group, as well as objections from mr protasiewicz and 42 other members of the european parliament to the recommendation of the environment committee not to raise objections to the commission's draft amendment to regulation (eu) no 1031/2010, in particular as regards the fixing of the quantities of greenhouse gas emission allowances to be auctioned during the period 2013 to 2020. the recommendation of the committee on the environment will therefore be put to the vote at today's voting time. before the vote:
mr president, in the light of yesterday’s debate and with a clear look towards ukraine, i would suggest that we clearly state that it is the right of the ukrainian people to decide on their future without any international intervention. therefore, i suggest replacing amendment 1 with the following wording: ‘underlines the fact that it is for the ukrainian people – and only for them – to decide, free from foreign interference, on the geopolitical orientation of the country and on which international agreements and communities ukraine should join’. i suggest that the sentence should be added as a new last sentence to paragraph 19.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would point out that the second sentence of paragraph 14 says, by mistake, in the cooperation between the applicant, the tabling office and the translation: '... and the introduction of personalised targeted measures'. the correct term is 'preparation of personalised targeted measures'. i hope that's how it's voted.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. please accept, as an exception, a minor violation of the rules. no one has done more for bosnia and herzegovina than mrs pack. and since this is probably her last report on bosnia in this house, i think she should be thanked for her decades of service! (applause from the centre)
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
the next item on the agenda is the explanations of vote. we shall begin with the explanations of vote which could not be dealt with yesterday. the explanations of vote on the points on which we voted today follow.
in writing. the question is, how do we want to live tomorrow? do we want to maintain our standard of living in europe in the future? - and also do our part to fight hunger and poverty in the world? do we want our own energy and energy security? do we want safe and low-emission energy sources that do not pollute our air and do not degrade our nature? if we can answer these questions with a 'yes', then we must continue to pursue energy efficiency measures and the promotion of renewable and new energy sources. because the fossil fuels are gone. so we need to focus on energy conservation and on research and innovation in renewable and new energy. the political impetus must be given. new technologies and storage methods can be the key to successful energy policy. it requires a good level of continuity and reliability for all involved. it is therefore worrying that we in the eu are now so quietly saying goodbye to a sub-target for the transport sector. a few years ago we were encouraging a large investment in biofuel production with the 10% target, but now we are putting it on the back burner because we are miscalculating biofuels on speculative figures. in bringing together ambitious energy and climate policies, we must not overshoot the mark.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first, to know that we need rules for the banks. secondly, we cannot leave the development of these rules to the banks themselves. the banks have proved that they are not capable of doing this in the last financial crisis. thirdly, the rules of the game include the establishment of a bank resolution facility. fourthly, the fact that companies participate in business life under penalty of bankruptcy is a law of the market economy. it is also a sign of responsibility. however, this responsibility may not be delegated to third parties. and that's exactly what the banks did in the last crisis. they have finally shifted their responsibility to the taxpayer. but without a sound legal basis, the european banking resolution fund will not work. the only secure legal basis, in my view, is that of intergovernmental cooperation, which was decided by the council. and i think that parliament should stick to that basis!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are constantly reminded not to interfere unilaterally in ukraine. we're not doing that! we're all about human rights. human rights know no national boundaries and are universal. we're committed to peace and no bloodshed. and civil rights activists in ukraine - recently including mrs tymoshenko's daughter who visited bavaria - have confirmed to us that without the eu representation in kiev and its excellent moderating role, bloodshed would have been a long time ago. this is a proud record that we can draw here, at least for the time being, and i hope it will remain so. and the third thing i want to make clear is: we are committed to ensuring that one of the largest european peoples, which has suffered terribly under foreign domination and colonialism, can freely decide on its european policy. we're not pretending here. but we do not accept that the former colonial power is trying to build a soviet union through the back door and think in spheres of influence. and that 's why ... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are not building a wall against moscow, but the kremlin is building a façade against us - a propaganda façade behind which human rights violations, oppression and colonialism are hidden. the fact that the olympic games are now being opened in sochi, on the 150th anniversary of the genocide of the cherokee people, whose remains are scattered around the world and who are waiting in vain for a sign of moral redemption, is a frightening thought. it is hard to imagine that they are planning to hold a victory parade in historical uniforms for the opening of the olympic games - instead of commemorating this genocide, they are celebrating it indirectly, and in connection with the olympic games! there are repeated attempts to degrade the olympic games to a nonpolitical sporting event. but they are fundamentally political, because they were founded against nationalism and oppression!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. almost 35 years ago, a british colleague, ann clwyd, compared the eu to a horse that has been tied up and then whipped because it does not run. we have now, thank god, developed and unleashed the eu, but bosnia and herzegovina is in this situation. it is bound by an unfit constitution imposed from outside, the dayton treaty, and we beat this country because it does not run. and i say quite clearly: of course the politicians and the elites there have also completely failed, but we too must do our part to help bosnia and herzegovina get back on its feet and move. and here i am betting heavily on the young generation of this country. the country needs a profound generational change, new political leadership and above all a renewal from the communities and from the current student demonstration movement. i have great confidence in it, and in personalities like bishop komarica and other great, wise men of this country.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is almost unbearable that, while negotiations are now taking place with serbia and montenegro - which i welcome - negotiations have not even been started with a country that has been promised negotiations for much longer and has been granted candidate status for much longer. and this is only because two eu member states - namely greece and bulgaria - are abusing the so-called name issue, which they have arbitrarily invented, to block macedonia's european development. macedonia is a democracy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of minorities are respected. and all this is being jeopardized by a rigid nationalist policy which is seriously damaging to the interests of the european union. i therefore appeal to greece and bulgaria to finally join in. macedonia is macedonia!
the explanations of vote are closed. (the sitting was suspended at 1.40 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the situation in thailand.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the central message we should all be sending out today is an appeal to the government and the opposition not to allow the dangerous situation in thailand to degenerate into chaos. many observers now see the country heading towards civil war and are concerned about the economy and especially tourism being affected by the unrest. mistakes have been made on both sides. that is why both sides must help to overcome this dangerous situation. but there are some principles that need to be clear: the basic principle of democracy - one man, one vote - cannot be overridden in favour of a government of the people, as some elites in thailand want. the majority opinion cannot be disregarded. there is certainly a deep socioeconomic conflict between the urban elites and the rural regions. and it needs a reform of state institutions. but that can only happen if both sides recognize that this must be resolved peacefully and within the framework of democratic rules. that is why the appeal to the democratic party, to the democracy that it carries in its name, to give it a chance, and the appeal to the government to withdraw the emergency laws that it passed on january 23.
member of the commission. - mr president, we welcome the imminent adoption of parliament’s urgency resolution on thailand’s political situation. thailand is a close partner of the european union. last year was a particularly important year, as we initialled the partnership and cooperation agreement with thailand, began free trade agreement negotiations, and received the prime minister in brussels. the european union is following with concern the recent tensions and the political polarisation in thailand. the situation has given cause for several statements by the vice-president/high representative in the last three months. in her statements she has condemned the use of violence, urged all sides to exert restraint and called for a real and inclusive dialogue and reconciliation. the recent tensions are a recurrence of what thailand has experienced earlier in this century. thailand’s democratic political system may now once more be at risk. the elections last sunday, where many thais were unable to vote and polls were boycotted, show how challenging and complex the situation has become. the situation has in it the seeds both for a solution and for further deterioration. the thai political leadership must come together and find a way forward. only they can take the needed decision. as this parliament rightly stresses in its resolution, it is essential to avoid escalation and to engage immediately in a constructive dialogue to seek a negotiated settlement. thailand needs a peaceful solution through inclusive dialogue based on democratic principles. the alternative is a growing rift in society. thailand’s future is a matter for the thai people to resolve. we believe that only real dialogue between the authorities and the opposition, aimed at finding a lasting political solution, based on democratic principles within the constitutional framework, offers a way forward.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the right to education in the transnistrian region.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mrs vergiat, would you agree that the principle should be the consensus in this house, that human rights should not be subordinated when it is politically convenient, and that there should be no sorting by camp when it comes to promoting human rights?
a writer. - mr president, i have to go. it is a clear violation of human rights that the right to education in the mother tongue should not apply in the transnistrian region. although it is the official language, it is now being used in a very blatant way in the education and school system. this is totally unacceptable! open and non-discriminatory access to education must be defended as one of the highest goals of children's rights. we know that children are our future. we therefore call on the self-proclaimed regime in transnistria to finally cooperate with the osce. and the russian government must finally take the judgment of the european court of human rights seriously and stop supporting this untenable situation. we call on the commission to make full use of the european instruments for democracy and human rights to support the population and to ensure free access to information, education and a free press. we therefore consider it extremely important that this debate should take place today. the european parliament will also have to be judged on whether we take strong action against this, especially since the european court of justice has already given us a road map. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. transnistria is a post-stalinist, criminal and sometimes dangerous military structure. on the other hand, we must of course recognize that there are still many problems in the republic of moldova. we are concerned about the separatism of the gagauz people, but on the other hand we also urge the moldovan government to respect and recognize the rights of minorities and the diversity of languages and cultures in moldova. we as the european union have a balancing role to play here. it is important to save this suffering european country, the republic of moldova, from being divided and dismantled. we must simply say it openly: transnistria is an instrument of russia's plans for domination of the whole region, as we are seeing in the south caucasus and also in ukraine at the moment. the house's task is to prevent the abuse of these conflicts for the sake of domination and to defend human rights.
member of the commission. - mr president, the republic of moldova is facing a very difficult political situation this year, in which deep-rooted domestic factors of instability are being compounded by the systematic undermining of the country’s sovereignty and territorial integrity from outside. attempts to escalate tensions in transnistria belong to the latter category. we deeply deplore them and we will continue to help moldova to withstand pressures. in a ruling published in october 2012, the european court of human rights found that harassment of the romanian language schools in transnistria was in violation of the right to education of children living in the transnistrian region and whose mother tongue is romanian. the european union stands firm in the fight for fundamental rights. we strongly condemn any action by the transnistrian de facto authorities that infringe on the right to education in the territory they control. but the european union also supports – and will continue to support by all means – moldova’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. an escalation of tensions between chisinau and tiraspol poses a formidable threat. we will therefore put all our weight behind efforts to resolve the schools issue by way of negotiation. the osce, which coordinates the ‘5+2 talks’, in november 2012 issued a comprehensive set of recommendations to address this issue, which are highly regarded by the international community. we feel strongly that the way forward lies in nudging the two sides into renewing dialogue on education issues, along the lines of the osce recommendations, with a view to upholding the right to education of all children. of course, the use of ultimatums at the negotiating table is not acceptable and it will first be necessary to lift current pressure on the romanian language schools. we will address the schools issue along these lines during the next round of 5+2 negotiations, scheduled for the end of this month. while paying so much attention to the schools issue, it is crucially important not to gloss over the many other factors of tension in transnistria. with a new allocation of eur 28 million of technical and financial assistance agreed last year, we will continue implementing our programme of confidence-building projects, which allow the establishment of lasting cooperation at the civil society and local levels across the dniester river. moreover, we will continue working for the transnistrian de facto authorities to consider in earnest the substantial benefits the region can gain if it participates in the future association agreement with moldova. this offer is about social progress, improvement in human rights and economic modernisation. our aim is to open up many new opportunities for the people living in transnistria, who are also among our closest neighbours.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on bahrain, in particular the cases of nabil rajshaab, abdulhadi al-khawaja and ibrahim sharif.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am also speaking on behalf of my colleague mrs niebler, the chairman of our delegation for the gulf states. we are concerned about the situation in bahrain. we are fighting for human rights and we are demanding that the authorities act immediately in these three specific cases. on the other hand, we cannot have a one-sided debate here, as some have done. my first conversation with a bahraini ruler was 30 years ago. the european union has been a major player in the fight against terrorism, and the european union has been a major player in the fight against terrorism. and we have to see that bahrain is playing a positive and constructive role in religious dialogue and in geopolitical balancing and peace efforts in the region. this concerns both the king and the crown prince. that is why we should be as vigorous in defending human rights as we are, but also say very clearly that we support the reform and peace efforts in the country itself, that we are in favour of the establishment of the court and of compensation!
member of the commission. - mr president, let me first stress that the vice-president/high representative has been following closely the situation in bahrain. the european union has engaged with local authorities at the highest level, as well as with all actors in bahraini society since the resurgence of unrest in february 2011. the vice-president/high representative warmly welcomes the news that bahrain’s crown prince, upon the request of king hamad, recently held wide-ranging talks with participants in the national consensus dialogue including, in particular, with al-wefaq secretary-general sheikh ali salman, for the first time since the events of february 2011. at this significant juncture, we believe the consultations undertaken since then have the potential to pave the way for long-term national reconciliation and sustainable reform in bahrain. we call once more on all parties to refrain from violence and to work together towards reconciliation without preconditions. but as we have consistently said over the last three years, a lasting reconciliation process requires a combination of moderation and concrete confidence-building steps by everyone, including the release of those arrested in the context of peaceful political activities to overcome the deep polarisation of bahraini society. the european union’s special representative for human rights, stavros lambrinidis, who visited bahrain last june, was given the opportunity to visit some prisoners detained for political activities. we will continue to closely monitor developments on this issue. the european union welcomes the positive steps taken by the bahraini authorities to implement the recommendations by the bahraini independent commission of inquiry (bici), thus improving the human rights situation, but much remains to be done and we will continue to encourage bahrain to implement fully and swiftly the bici and universal periodic review recommendations and will provide all possible support for the achievement of this goal. we will also continue to engage with the authorities on the need to tackle impunity and accountability, noting that the ministry of interior’s ombudsman, the public prosecution office, as well as the prisoners and detainees commission and the national institution for human rights should play an important and proactive role in this regard, by fulfilling their mandate in full independence. these institutions must produce concrete results in order to win the confidence of the public. we also considered that a visit by mr juan méndez, the united nations special rapporteur on torture and other cruel, inhumane or degrading treatment or punishment would be a particularly important signal to measure the progress accomplished. finally, i want to warmly salute the contribution of the european parliament’s delegation for relations with the arabian peninsula and express my appreciation for its efforts towards enhancing the european union’s engagement towards bahrain.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the vote on the motions for resolutions. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
i am not saying that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. we'll look into it. the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 4.20 p.m.)
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday, 6 february 2014.
i am not going to go into detail. we all followed the dramatic events of the past weekend around maidan square in kiev and saw how ukraine has undergone what is arguably the most significant change in its recent history. on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to express our solidarity with the ukrainian people: we admire their courage, their dignity and their tenacity! in recent days, many people have lost their lives in the violence in the struggle for greater democracy and justice in ukraine. on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to express our condolences to the families of the victims and our solidarity. but on saturday, we received good news: after more than two and a half years, yulia tymoshenko was finally released from prison. in this context, i would like to express my gratitude to the former president of the european parliament, mr pat cox, and to the former president of the republic of poland, mr aleksander kwaśniewski, for their tireless efforts: their mediation role has made a significant contribution to the release of ms tymoshenko. ukraine is facing major challenges. the main objective must be to ensure the stability and unity of the country and national reconciliation. this requires the rapid formation of a government that reflects the country's diverse forces and paves the way for free and fair presidential elections on 25 may. the european union and the international community must now help the ukrainians to avert the country's looming economic collapse and to enable ukraine to have a peaceful future in a stable democracy. tonight, our ad hoc delegation will return with the latest impressions from kiev. we shall deal with the subject in plenary on wednesday. ladies and gentlemen, in solidarity with the people, but above all in respect for the victims who gave their lives in the struggle for democracy and freedom, i ask you to rise for a minute of silence. (parliament adopted the resolution) ladies and gentlemen, more than two years ago, a tragic accident occurred off the coast of kerala, india. two indian fishermen lost their lives in this accident. i would like to express once again our sympathy on behalf of the european parliament to the families of the victims. the fate of italian marines massimiliano latorre and salvatore girone has been in the hands of the indian judicial authorities for more than two years. without going into the merits of the charges against the two soldiers, i would like to add my voice to the italian authorities' concern about the length and repetition of the delays in this case. on behalf of the european parliament, i call on the indian authorities to apply international law, and in particular the un convention on the law of the sea, without delay. italy and the eu will continue to fight piracy - that is certain - worldwide and especially in vulnerable areas. relations between the european union and india must be based on mutual trust and respect for the rule of law. the european-indian relations can only flourish on the basis of diplomacy and dialogue. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
on 6 february 2014, i decided to issue a letter of formal notice to mr godfrey bloom pursuant to rule 153 (3) (a) of the rules of procedure. mr bloom was informed of this decision immediately and i received a receipt on 12 february. the chairpersons of the committees to which mr bloom belongs, namely the econ committee and the committee on women's rights and gender equality, were also informed of this measure in accordance with rule 153 (1). mr bloom may lodge an appeal against this decision with the bureau within two weeks of receipt of this decision.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 20 february 2014, pursuant to rule 137 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. i have two announcements to make: monday: no changes. tuesday: no changes. wednesday: on the vote on mrs mcavan's report on the tobacco directive, i have received a written request from mr callanan, the chairman of the ecr group, to postpone the vote because of technical changes to the text. mr callanan informed me by letter of 21 february that his group, considering that the amendments to the text were not technical but substantive, was asking for the vote on it to be postponed. i have received a letter to that effect from mr reul, but in a personal capacity. i'll have you know that i received the letters. but according to the rules of our rules of procedure, a request to that effect must be made here in the chamber at the beginning of the vote. i would just like to inform you in advance that i have received such a letter and that you in the political groups should be prepared to receive such a request. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in venezuela. mr audy has asked to speak on this subject. there you go, mr. audy.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr thomas ulmer, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 443/2009 as regards the setting of the modalities for achieving the 2020 target for reducing co2 emissions from new passenger cars (com ((2012) 0393[] - [nbsp ]c7-0184/2012[] - [nbsp ]2012/0190 ((cod)) (a7-0151/2013).
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the debate today closes a cycle of almost two years which has been needed to settle the dossier on the carbon dioxide emissions of passenger cars after 2020. i would like to begin by thanking all those involved: the shadow rapporteurs, the staff of the political groups, the staff of the envi bureau, the commission and the irish and lithuanian presidencies! the hard-won and worked-out compromise means that europe remains the number one in reducing carbon dioxide emissions. the reduction of the limit value to the 95 g/km limit value will statistically save about 15 million tonnes of co2 per year, assuming that this will replace cars with 150 to 170 g/km by new cars, at 12.5 million new cars and a stock of 280 million cars in the european union. if that stock is then completely converted to 95-gram new cars, we will have a total savings of about 300 million tons of carbon dioxide per year at a mileage of about 15,000 kilometers per car, which is the average european driver. balance in this dossier was a very important objective. the prices for innovation must be both socially acceptable and economically sustainable, both for buyers and in the manufacturing sector. the incentives to buy cars are mainly expressed in terms of prices. we have decided after a long time to start with only 95% of the passenger car fleet in 2020. we also approved supercredits of 7.5% spread over three years. this means an additional carbon dioxide emission of 328[nbsp ]125[nbsp ]tonnes in the area of the 5% scheme and 492[nbsp ]188 tonnes in the area of these super credits. i think that is a reasonable concession to the car manufacturers. in addition, we will introduce a new test cycle which is more realistic and shows better living conditions for the consumer. in this context, a scientifically correct conversion factor for individual classes is important and must be worked out. i continue to believe in the future of the combustion engine, at least until the storage technologies for electricity or alternative energy sources in the automotive sector are more mature. however, as transport becomes more electric, the carbon dioxide source of the electricity must also be effectively balanced - a well-to-wheel principle. i would like to see european car manufacturing continue to be a leader in diversity, innovation and technology. driving a car - whether it's a combustion engine or an electric car - is an emotional experience that has occupied people since the first automobile. we must not underestimate this high degree of emotionalism and we are called upon to set realistic standards in the field of environmental sustainability, which i believe we have done with this report.
the commission has already done so. i think we've had a very difficult time with this issue over the last two years, and i think it's also important to note that we're not really talking about climate policy here, but industrial policy. the question is: will the automotive industry in europe remain competitive? will it remain an industrial backbone for the continent, even in a very difficult market environment? one of my colleagues has already mentioned figures: 7% of industrial value added, 7% of jobs are provided by the automobile industry in europe. and i think that's a reason to be careful, cautious and also balanced about the issues we're bringing into the legislation. the co2 and co2 emissions of the automotive industry are not the only determinants of market success. i would just like to suggest that we take a closer look at which manufacturers are successful in europe. are they the manufacturers who are more likely to build bigger cars that are also efficient, or are they the ones who are more likely to build smaller cars? i think we should not overdo it with the objectives. we have been close to overstating the targets in the debate which has been taking place over the last six months on this regulation, because it was obvious that it was not economically feasible for some producers to achieve the targets by 2020. this is why the continuation of the process after 2020 requires a degree of restraint. it is perfectly clear that we cannot continue at the rate of reduction we have proposed without damaging industry and jobs!
member of the commission. - madam president, i think that what we have seen in this file is evidence of how, when the commission and parliament really work together and try to fend off those who want to dilute and delay legislation, then we can actually keep to a decent level of ambition. i think that it is incredibly important that we manage to get first-reading agreement on this, because without that we have not, as yet, been able to move on to the next step which several of you have pointed to, namely identifying what the target for the post-2020 period should be. that is exactly where the commission’s focus will turn and, as i have already mentioned, this april/may, this spring, we will launch our consultation process on the post-2020 targets. i am looking forward to continued good cooperation with parliament on this very important file.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president! - what is it? i should like to begin by thanking the speakers, who, with one exception, have all followed my path. we have found a viable compromise. for me, the freedom that we cherish in the european union and that we always want to offer our citizens is also inextricably linked to mobility, and to the opportunity for individual point-to-point mobility. and that's going to be possible for the foreseeable future with something that looks like a car, or with a car. mass transport always means that distances have to be travelled to and from the mass transport location. i believe that the new wltp cycle will be a very important element for this regulation, also in terms of consumer protection, as it will make it much more realistic for consumers to know how much energy and fuel their vehicle will actually consume. i want to thank you again! let me close with a word from heraclitus: panta rhei. everything flows, everything is in motion or everything moves forward!
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, despite the somewhat technical nature of these texts, the 'brand' package we are now discussing is in my view a key element of our competitiveness and innovation strategy. the fact is that it is through brands and their proper protection that our companies differentiate themselves and can conquer markets and sell their products. so it was through these brands that innovation found monetary value. a recent study by the ohim and the epo shows that industries that rely heavily on brands now account for 26% of jobs in the european union! 26[nbsp ]% of jobs are directly or indirectly linked to such protections, so the economic importance of these protections is clear. i think that this european trademark system is working rather well, although, as with many other sectors, in order to live even better and to keep up with the times, it needs to be modernised. that is why i have proposed this package to facilitate access to trade marks, to ensure more effective protection against counterfeiting and to better coordinate the national and european levels and to promote greater complementarity between them. so i would like at this point to thank cecilia[nbsp]wikström very sincerely for her extremely thorough and competent work on this subject. i also thank the juri committee, its chairman, klaus-heiner lehne, and the fictitious rapporteurs, who have shown a clear political will to ensure that your discussions can be concluded quickly. i thank them for that too. as you know, i was as determined as your parliament to get this package through to first reading in this parliament. in this spirit, at the competitiveness council in december i asked the member states to speed up the discussion by taking it to the political level. but despite all our efforts, yours and mine, and even though much of the work has already been done, it is clear today that a political agreement before the end of your term is now technically impossible on the council side. personally, like cecilia wikström, i sincerely regret this. in this context, your willingness to give a statement in plenary on the position of your juri committee is, in my view, also the best way to move this matter forward. the commission is in fact supporting the report in its main outlines, despite some points which are still under debate, and i think it is a good starting point for the negotiations which will have to start as soon as possible, once the council has made its own decision. as regards the directive, i am glad that parliament broadly shares the objective of greater harmonisation of national procedures, as is being urged by trademark users and owners. some member states [nbsp ]i know this well[nbsp ] find that this is going too far and that their system is useful for small and medium-sized enterprises because it already provides good 'assistance' to trademark owners. to those states which say 'be careful not to go too far', i want to say, and i want to reply, that the question is probably more complex than that! i meet many small and medium-sized enterprises who also want to register trademarks to develop and who consider that their activity - their life - is unnecessarily complicated by national procedures that are too complex or differ from one country to another. here too we must - i am thinking of all the work we are doing on the single market act - make the procedures within the single market more coherent, more homogeneous. on the question of goods in transit, i know that this debate still exists between you and that there are always discussions and ms wikström said sometimes even disagreements. you are well aware of the commission's position. the problem is real and i think it is urgent to tackle it, but to tackle this issue of counterfeiting coming in from all sides, we do not have a very effective tool, despite the work we are doing with the customs services and my colleague mr šemeta. that is why i repeat to you here what i said to the council: i hope that you will eventually support the level of ambition i have proposed to you on this question of goods in transit. the commission proposal aims to allow trademark owners to seize counterfeit goods, including when they are merely passing through their customs territory. this proposal is made, of course, in accordance with our international commitments, as i said to your rapporteur, cecilia wikström. but, ladies and gentlemen, i say to you very frankly and very strongly: we cannot allow the european union to become - or remain - a kind of hub for world counterfeiting. the counterfeiting of these products is responsible for the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs in europe, and for the fact that some of the counterfeit products are dangerous to public health and safety. that is why, i repeat, we cannot allow the european union - the single market - to be regarded by all the other regions of the world, from which these counterfeits originate, as a kind of hub. this is our position. as you know, the sensitive points in the regulation are primarily institutional and financial. as regards the financing of cooperation between the ohim and the national offices, the commission is open to the proposed increase in the ceiling for financing cooperation projects. on the other hand, we also think it important to address the problem of the structural accumulation of a large budget surplus for the benefit of the ohim, which is in clear contradiction with the basic act. this is a situation which is hardly justifiable in the medium or long term. the reform of the governance of the ohim is another stumbling block in this case. the office has been explicitly included in the scope of the common approach on decentralised agencies which links your parliament, the council and the commission. we therefore consider that this agreement should apply to this agency (whose functions are very similar to those of many other agencies of the european union), unless, of course, it would be clearly inappropriate because of the specific tasks of ohim. finally, on the question of royalties - which is a key issue - i am very grateful to the juri committee for supporting the amounts and structure we proposed. our aim is that companies only pay for what corresponds to their real needs. this is the new principle of a fee per class of products, not a "three class" package. we must take advantage of this modernisation to bring down the price of recording. when a company, especially a small and medium-sized company, wishes to register only one or two classes of products, it seems to me that it is not right to charge for three classes! in the difficult economic environment we are currently experiencing, i think this is a major concern. it is also in line with a concern i share with my colleague tajani and others to provide special treatment for small and mediumsized enterprises so that the single market will gradually reconcile with them. and here we have a specific case where we could reduce the costs for small and mediumsized enterprises so that they can clearly participate in this and, more generally, through the reform of trade marks, in the efforts to win the battle for competitiveness and growth in europe.
adopted on 16 february. the commission has decided to extend the period of validity of the authorisation for the placing on the market of the medicinal product concerned to the period from 1 january 2002 to 31 december 2003. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i believe that, after what michel barnier said at the beginning of his speech on the details of the file, it is particularly important to recall how the community trade mark has developed 20 years after its creation. whereas before the introduction of the european community trade mark in a total of 28 member states of the european union 28 different trade marks not only existed but had to be applied for, with the community trade mark we have created a system which has brought legal certainty to a market of almost 500 million citizens and consumers and which has helped to reduce the cost of european trade marks considerably. the need for a general refresh of such a system after 20 years became evident with the proposal of michel barnier. i believe that in many respects it has been exactly what the european economy has been expecting from this community trade mark: that it has become even more competitive, even cheaper and thus even more attractive for companies in the european union to maintain jobs, create new ones and enrich this european market with new products. if we continue along this path, it is precisely the path which will ultimately create a future for the citizens and the workers of europe! and that's what we need in globalization!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. dear cecilia wikström, i wanted to expressly praise you at the beginning. it is a little difficult for me now, after what you said about our amendment. i commend you, however, because working with you has been very fruitful and collaborative for us shadow reporters. and we have obviously worked together really well and collegially on the outcome of the vote in committee and have come to a consensus. nevertheless, we have been conducting this discussion in committee with a view to obtaining a joint negotiating mandate with the council. the council has not really discussed it, it is not ready yet. it is not new that he is always throwing sand in the wind and not actually getting around to doing the tasks that would be necessary in the interests of the citizens and in the interests of the european economy. that is why we must do it today as we do it, namely by reaching a conclusion at first reading. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because we want to protect generics. i 'll put it in parentheses . generic medicines are not really a matter of trademark law, but a matter of patent protection. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade mark rights are respected. so it was reasonable that we recorded that as well. but if we do not go to the council with a joint negotiating mandate, but if we want to conclude this in the first reading, then of course we will look again at some compromises. they were all great. and the compromise on this point, where we have gone back to my original amendment, is not something that some lobbyists whispered to us. that was not the case now, and it was not the case months ago when i tabled the amendment. we have done nothing but table my amendment. that is because we have found that this compromise has become so complicated in this one point that you can't really do anything about it. it was therefore sensible to clarify the language here once again. that's why we brought this in. but overall, from the point of view of my socialist group, it is not only a reasonable compromise but a really good basis. we hope that the council will finally come to a decision, also in this area, where it itself always insists that we must protect competitiveness, that the protection of competitiveness also includes the protection of intellectual property. the council has already made its twists and turns on patents, and now it is doing the same with trade mark law. it is called upon to come to a real conclusion now, so that we can then, on the basis of what we are now concluding at first reading, come as quickly as possible to a reasonable conclusion in this trade mark law with the new parliament in the next parliamentary term. that is the appeal that we have to make to this empty bench.
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. with the proposal for a new regulation for europol, the commission finally came close to implementing the lisbon treaty last year too slowly! but i would like to commend the commission for having seized the opportunity to propose the merger of europol and cepol in the new regulation. - thank you. the committee on budgets fully supports this proposal! the combination of europol's operational expertise with cepol's training expertise will create direct and indirect spill-over effects and synergies within the common structure. the advantages of a small agency like cepol in terms of pure administrative expenditure are also obvious! i appeal to the council and to our colleagues not to waste this opportunity! we will not get a new multiannual framework with a larger budget! every penny that is not unnecessarily wasted can be used for the work that needs to be done. and, ladies and gentlemen, if not a merger, then please give both agencies a seat! that would at least allow for some synergy. so please!
draft opinion of the consultative committee on constitutional affairs. the commission has already made a number of proposals. in 2009, europol, the european police office, became an agency to support national law enforcement authorities in the joint prevention and fight against serious crime and terrorism. cepol, the european police college, was established as an agency of the european union back in 2005 and its mandate is limited to the training of senior police officers and police officers who play a key role in the fight against cross-border crime. as rapporteur for the constitutional committee, i have focused on the following two points, which are also reflected in the report on the proposal for a regulation. firstly, i do not think that the merger of the two agencies is a good idea on the part of the commission and the committee on budgets. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of europol. secondly, i fully support, particularly as a liberal, the idea that europol's activities should in future be subject to control by the democratically elected representatives of the citizens. the european parliament and the national parliaments will work together on this. they are informed annually in the form of activity reports and annual accounts and receive, for their information, risk assessments, strategic analyses and general progress reports.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european police force is properly equipped to deal with the problems of the police. and the question is whether we are doing that with this new mandate of europol. i can say that thanks to the transparent and extremely fair cooperation with the rapporteur, the debate on such issues has been very possible. and that is what distinguishes it from so many of the discussions and proposals i hear from the commission. i really want to pay my respects to you, because we have had some very controversial debates. the positive thing is that cepol is not to be merged with europol, because cepol has completely different tasks. you can't water that down. the positive thing is that the clarification has been made in the europol mission statement and there is no blank check for all possible crimes that have to fall within europol's remit. but of course there are also disagreements and things that do not satisfy us. yes, we have actually embedded privacy rules that are quite broad, we support them very much. but it is completely overwhelming and, in our view, wrong in terms of content to ask the edps to take over the supervision. we think a joint supervisory authority is really better. it is also positive that the rapporteur has advocated and worked for a parliamentary control body, but the powers are just not enough for us. it cannot be that, although the control body can make an appeal or have influence on it, it cannot have an appeal procedure with the participation of the control body. we also need an explicit right of access to the files for such a control body so that people actually know what they are talking about.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, in greece the local communities are in a state of great turmoil. the reason is the destruction of syria's chemical weapons in mediterranean waters. we all agree that peace in syria is important and that chemical weapons must be destroyed. but not in the mediterranean! we do not want to risk any pollution of the environment. we have asked the greek and italian prime ministers to take an official initiative, but there has been no reaction so far. people and local bodies in greece and other countries are worried. the message the citizens are sending us is simple: protect the mediterranean!
that concludes this item.
the next item is the briefing on the report with recommendations to the commission by ms antonyia parvanova on combating violence against women (2013/2004 ((inl)) (a7-0075/2014).
member of the commission. - mr president, every day women and girls are humiliated, beaten, sexually abused, and killed only because they are women or girls, and that happens in our member states and throughout the world. it not only affects the women who fall victim, but it is a huge burden on the whole of society. it is unacceptable. i would like to congratulate ms parvanova and thank her for her report, and to pay tribute to her strong and continuing commitment to ending violence against women and her call for the commission to act with ambition. we in the commission have shown a dedication to making full use of the eu competences and supporting the member states in preventing and combating all forms of violence against women within the eu, and also in our work with the rest of the world. i can vouch for that in my own field in humanitarian aid. together we have put in place a comprehensive legal framework at european level to protect women against all forms of violence. this framework includes the directive on trafficking in human beings, the directive against sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, the directive on the european protection order applicable in criminal matters, a regulation setting the european protection order covering civil matters, and last but not least, the directive on the rights of crime victims, stressing the need for specific and appropriate protection for victims of gender-based violence. this strong legislative framework is in place. the commission is now guiding and monitoring member states in the effective implementation of this legal framework at national level. in this context, an additional eu legislative instrument, as suggested by parliament, on preventive measures on violence against women, would require a careful analysis of how exactly it would fit into what we currently do in terms of the division of responsibilities between the member states and the commission. article 84 of the lisbon treaty contains clear restrictions on the eu harmonising national criminal law in the context of crime prevention. the possible added value of such an initiative would also need to be carefully assessed by the commission, because we have already developed a range of preventive actions, such as awareness-raising activities, exchanges of good practice and project funding at grass-roots level: activities to prevent violence against women. but i agree with you, ms parvanova: we need to improve our knowledge and the collection of data on violence against women and translate this knowledge into action at eu level and in the member states. in the commission we have participated very actively in the work of eurostat, the fundamental rights agency and the european institute for gender equality, to improve eu data collection based on reliable national data. this requires very strong involvement and cooperation from the member states. you can also count on the commission to use the new rights, equality and citizenship programme to keep supporting awareness-raising activities and regular exchanges of good practices and to provide funding to governments, ngos and the networks working in this field. as you know, the commission has recently adopted a communication on eliminating female genital mutilation and has committed itself to monitoring and taking stock of progress on an annual basis. 6 [nbsp ] february has been defined as the international day of zero tolerance for female genital mutilation. regarding accession to the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, we are examining the legal and policy implications of a possible eu accession in the area of the convention where there might be eu competence. but more important is to keep calling on the member states to sign and ratify the convention. to date – almost four years after agreeing on this convention – 20 member states have signed it but only three have ratified it: austria, italy and portugal. so those of us who are not austrian, italian or portuguese have to work hard with our national parliaments and governments and the media, asking why these member states have not ratified the first international legally-binding instrument combating violence against women. what are they afraid of? do the legal systems in our member states work or not? if they work, then no member state should be afraid of ratifying the council of europe convention. i hope we will see progress very soon. i want to conclude by saying that the commission will make full use of eu competences to support the member states in this respect. it is not about ideology: it is about the right of women to be protected against violence for the benefit of society as a whole.
that concludes this point. the vote will take place on tuesday, 25 february, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by mary honeyball on sexual exploitation and prostitution and its impact on gender equality (2013/2103 (ini)) (a7-0071/2014).
member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to start by expressing my thanks to ms honeyball for her own-initiative report. there are gruesome consequences of human trafficking and exploitation, stories of the deception of young girls and women having to sell their bodies, threatened, beaten, sometimes even sold by their own families. i would like to start by very clearly stating that for us in the eu, human trafficking is unacceptable in every sense. it is a gross human rights violation and an extremely serious form of crime. we often hear that trafficking is an underground or hidden crime, but we actually see it with our own eyes: it happens in front of us. those who are not so very well seen are the criminals who control it in the background. we also understand very well the interconnection between gender and trafficking. eurostat statistics show that 96[nbsp ]% of victims of trafficking for sexual exploitation are women and girls, and behind these statistics is the tragedy of each and every one of them. this connects very closely with the discussion we had on the previous item on the report presented by ms parvanova. we also recognise that women and children do not end up in the prostitution market by their own choice. there is a link between the prostitution market, exploitation and organised crime. these links are indisputable and are becoming more and more evident. in addition, europol informs us that most of the victims of sexual exploitation are trafficked to countries where prostitution is legal or is regulated. as i have already stressed in the previous discussion, the eu has adopted both a very ambitious directive on human trafficking and an eu strategy to complement this directive. both recognise and address the gender dimension and the need to reduce demand on human trafficking for the first time at the level of eu law. this is where i want to end. prevention is a key pillar of this directive, and it is recognised that there is a need to reduce demand for sexual exploitation. for a little 10-year-old girl to be exploited in the prostitution market or for producing pornography, there has to be a client and there has to be a user. thus we have to focus strongly on tackling, reducing and eliminating this demand.
that concludes this point. the vote will take place on tuesday, 25 february, at 12 noon.
the next item is the summary of the report by mr józsef szájer on the follow-up to the report on the delegation of legislative powers and the control by member states of the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the commission (2012/2323(ini)) (a7-0435/2013).
member of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, i should like to thank mr[nbsp ]szájer for presenting his thoughts in the report. on behalf of the commission i want to say very clearly that we fully agree with the importance and usefulness of having a common approach as regards delegated and implementing acts. questions on interpretation have come up all too often in negotiations and it is really time to step up our efforts to find horizontal solutions to these recurrent problems. as you know, last year the commission launched a trilateral discussion to develop a shared understanding of horizontal issues related to delegated and implementing acts, and prepared a non-paper that addressed many of the issues that you have raised, but also covered the sensitive issue of consultation on delegated acts. the process stalled, however, and i can only thank you for giving it a new impetus which hopefully will bring us to a good understanding and delineation of delegated and implementing acts. we broadly agree with the report that you have presented and consider it a good basis on which to work hard in reaching closure on these issues. i just want to bring to everybody’s attention that there is to be a court decision on a pending case on biocides where the issue of delineation between delegated and implementing acts is raised. hopefully i will be able to provide helpful guidance on that matter. this does not mean that we should not continue to conduct discussions on procedural questions while the court provides its guidance. on the contrary, the three institutions must work together to find acceptable solutions to these important issues. i would close by saying that the new parliament will certainly have a very good basis upon which to accelerate the process of finding common ground and a common approach. thank you for your work.
that concludes this point. the vote will take place on tuesday, 25 february, at 12 noon.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you have spoken so eloquently about the economic reality of our european union. i want to ask you: do you really think that the percentage of citizens who believe what you say is higher than the tiny percentage of so-called growth that we have right now?
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the european semester is supposed to be the backbone of economic governance. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction. i would like to make it very clear to my group that we have serious doubts as to whether what is finally said in the recommendations is really sufficient. the european crisis management system is a one-sided burden on the poor and the weak. i am merely referring to the commission's employment and social affairs report on development in the eu for 2013. the number of precarious jobs has increased, the number of parttime contracts has increased, the number of precarious wages has increased. the main thing is that the slogan i hear over and over again and that i say is not enough at all to really achieve social justice, social fairness here in the european union and to bring people along. there have been drastic changes in pensions. in portugal, following recommendations and pressure from the european union, pensions have been reduced by 300 to 400[nbsp] euros per month. in latvia, the average pension is less than 240€, which is the minimum subsistence level. in spain, €33 million is planned to be saved in pensions. it can't be! if so, then we must speak out in favour of a poverty-free minimum wage, a poverty-free minimum income and a poverty-free pension. yes, it's good that for the first time, social indicators are being planned. but what is the ultimate effect, what are the concrete actions that will result from them? i would like to say one more thing: the countries with the highest export deficits are the ones that are most punished. but what about germany, what about germany's export surpluses? the threshold of 6% has long been exceeded. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. if you really want to eliminate macroeconomic imbalances, then you have to target the inflation rate, then you have to target that countries like germany with a 180 billion export surplus cannot do that at the expense of the other member states. german profits are the debts of others. that should be made clear here.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. a year or two ago, there was a debate about whether the euro would collapse. today, only populists, nationalists and farmers' thugs paint this horror scenario on the wall. all the others are concerned with generating growth and jobs for europe and in europe again. and i want to make this clear, because many speakers have made this very lightly here: austerity was necessary because the alternative to austerity was insolvency. and of course austerity is not pleasant, and of course it has some difficult social consequences, but the consequences of insolvency would have been much more dramatic! then you couldn't pay teachers, you couldn't pay doctors, you couldn't pay police. that was the alternative which was discussed here, but which is being suppressed! that is why it is right to keep to the present course, to keep our nerve and to increase europe's competitiveness. and the whole thing is being done with a consistent supply-oriented policy, as even the socialist president of the french republic has now admitted, who now says that he is no longer a socialist but a social democrat, i.e. it is going in small steps in the right direction. liberalised services markets, flexible labour markets, competitive cost structures, access to credit for smes, functioning administrations, modern infrastructure - these are all things we are working on, the troika is working on, the commission is working on. and we know that takes time. this is not something that can be done overnight, it is the only way to implement reforms in a credible way, so that opportunities are created again in europe for young people, jobseekers and businesses. i think it is right that olli rehn, when the commission goes, threatens to take action in the member states where credibility is at stake. this is also true of germany, where the grand coalition with pension gifts, with unfunded checks for the future, is playing off exactly this credibility. we must keep to the present course, we must increase competitiveness. we want opportunities for europe, not debts! (applause from the centre) (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i'm not going to tell you. can you give me a concrete example of how the burden of the crisis and the burden of austerity could have been distributed fairly? or can you perhaps summon up the courage to agree with the assessment that this policy has been at the expense of the poorest, at the expense of the mediumsized firms? where have there really been any concrete demands or measures against those who caused the crisis, against the speculators who are even profiting from the crisis?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i'd be happy to do that, mrs. zimmer. i said there were social hardships, which no one disputes. but we have increased regulation of financial markets, we have taken action against high-frequency trading, we are making sure that the financial sector, through the resolution fund, is itself part of the consequences of the financial crisis. all these measures involve the financial sector as much as those who are suffering in part from austerity policies in some of the countries concerned, which we do not condone. we do not close our eyes to the fact that there are difficult consequences. we also know that money cannot solve problems, only structural reforms and competitiveness can help. this is the path we have taken. if we want to stay on course, we have to stay on course.
mr president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, i would like to thank you for your work. the basic controversy in this debate is: do we want to - as mr lambsdorff says - maintain the priority of a so-called unilateral austerity policy - it can also be called an austerity policy - or do we want to re-prioritize the creation of new economic dynamism in the eu? we have to decide that. i think the second one is right. i also believe that there is more to this than the commission has hitherto considered. i want to highlight one point that is particularly important to me, namely how we are actually taking seriously the objectives defined in the europe 2020 strategy, for example, for the creation of competitiveness and sustainability, in this european semester. i'm afraid i have to say, in the analysis, not too strong. the whole issue of resource efficiency, for example, which is central to competitiveness and also to sustainability, has never played a role in the european semester. i'm just using this as an example. it is not necessary to believe that all the objectives business europe is pursuing are correct to share its call for industrial policy to play a greater role in the european semester. the commission has fallen behind in this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i would like to ask mr bütikofer if he knows the difference between austerity policy, which i did not mention in my remarks, and supply-oriented economic policy, which in other words says something quite different. does he know the difference? this is basic economics. but i'd appreciate it if he could say he knows the difference.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. mr lambsdorff, i think we should distinguish between politics and know-it-all. i believe that reforms are needed, but that austerity, as has been advocated for far too long, is taking the oxygen out of reforms. if we had thought back then that the labour market reforms in germany, which everyone says have been successful, would have required us to improve the situation by adopting austerity policies, we would have been out of our minds. you might want to take a look at this before you make any stupid remarks.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am amazed at some of the things i hear from the right of this house, amazed at the unabashedness with which the european union's policy to date is being hailed as a model of success. is mass youth unemployment in some european union countries a model of success? is the complaint of cities in italy or greece that they no longer know how to finance soup kitchens a successful model? not to mention that the need for soup kitchens in the european union is a scandal. is this really a successful model? no, not at all! that is why it is so important that we put a new emphasis on politics here in this european union, as sergio cofferati has written in his report on new governance. we must ensure that not only the banks in the european union are doing well, but that the people and citizens of europe are doing well, that their concerns are being taken more seriously, and that economic success is really reflected in the creation of jobs, and good jobs, and that production in these countries, where it is lacking, is really moving forward. and where, dear commission, is the approach to the new industrial policy, especially for these countries? we're waiting for that! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not mrs gebhardt, do you really believe that socialist concepts will reduce mass unemployment? or do you not rather think that the path we are taking in baden-württemberg, for example, towards sound households, above all the promotion of small and mediumsized enterprises, i.e. an economic policy and a dual vocational training system, is leading to a reduction in unemployment, and not a path to debt, which all the reform countries and countries in crisis have taken?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. mr theurer, you have obviously forgotten that when we were in the economic crisis in germany, we did exactly that with economic stimulus programmes to support the economy: to strengthen the economy and to ensure that unemployment did not arise exactly the opposite of what we are doing in europe at the moment!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to address the commission, with your permission. the last four or five years have not been easy for europe, but they have certainly not been easy and easy for the commission either. once again the european council has gone off on intergovernmental agreements. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i sometimes wonder how the commission has come to play such a game. she often did not know whether she was the author, the ghostwriter or simply the person who held the pen when the others signed! my question to the commission is: what institutional consequences do you draw from this? we are discussing the european semester today. this is an instrument which the prodi commission has fought for as an instrument embedded in the community method. they know very well that they can only achieve things if they achieve them together with the peoples of europe, if they achieve them together with this european parliament. when exactly will this outgoing commission make proposals for the better involvement of the european parliament, as called for in our resolutions? when exactly are you going to offer us cooperation between the institutions which will finally guarantee a democratically valid process of economic policy-making? we're waiting for you!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. at the end of such a debate, one is always a little bit confused about what has actually been said and what has not. i think we have a lot in common. we all want to achieve more growth in the european union with less debt and, above all, to ensure that the many young people in southern europe all get back to work, which will secure their future in the long term. but whether the blanket criticism of the troika or the commission will help in this case is doubtful. i would therefore like to refer specifically to the report by the committee on the internal market which mr cofferati has prepared for us, which points out that in the end it will only work if all parliamentarians in the member states concerned, in all the member states of the european union, take responsibility for a growing european internal market which can then also create new growth in those countries. that's what's been missing in the past. that is why the things that are happening under the table - as our colleague olle schmidt, who has since left, has said - are being dishonest to our neighbours. who is really going to stand up for this in countries like portugal and say: we want to actually create more growth locally and are prepared to increase competitiveness in return? i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the community, but that we should be concerned about the situation in the community. that's why i think we need to keep our course. the path we have taken is in the right direction. it has helped to increase the involvement of national parliaments in decision-making. and if we succeed in making the national parliaments more responsible in the next parliament and make it clear to them that they have a share of responsibility for making this european single market a success, then i believe we will have made a great step forward!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. these are three good reports. i thank the rapporteurs for their work. but contrary to the debate today, i am glad that more and more people, including more and more politicians, are becoming clear that growth and employment must be at the heart of european economic policy, and not just fiscal consolidation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. there are still many elements that we need to improve in europe, including effective labour controls across borders, but also direct sanctions against labour market illegality and social dumping, because wage-setting competition will not get us any further in europe. it's finally time to act. in a europe of the struggle for the lowest wages and working conditions, we are going the wrong way. i support the rapporteur's call and would like to stress once again that only if the social indicators can be integrated in a binding way into the country-specific recommendations will the ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first, part of the crisis is the sovereign debt crisis. it was created by states living beyond their means, spending more money than they took in. it is interesting that the president of the greek court of auditors says in the committee on budgetary control that he had neither the legal nor the practical means to prevent this. the only thing to say is that we must improve budgetary control. this means that we need sound public budgets in the member states. the second is that the euro is neither the cause nor the solution of the problems. the problems are in the real economy. we must ensure that in the real economy, through start-ups, through better conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises, through business loans, through technology friendliness, through modern inventions, products are invented that can also be sold on the world markets. i would like to say that the commission is very much aware of the fact that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets.
in writing. - democracy needs transparency. after all, meps do not represent themselves, but the citizens. they have a right to know how much and how regularly individual representatives are involved in parliament. that has not been possible before. neither the minutes nor the public statistics contained all the relevant information. for example, it was not possible to see who was sick, on a business trip, or in maternity care, or who had missed important meetings for no reason. that is what my report will change. in future, there will be clear and transparent minutes of each meeting, listing the names of those present, those excused and those absent. i have long advocated, on many levels, for greater transparency as a prerequisite for a living democracy. since the last european elections, i have successfully helped to shed light on the brussels lobbying jungle with the transparency register, to achieve full disclosure of meps' incomes and activities and to ensure that the european parliament has access to confidential council and commission documents. today's initiative is not a huge one, but it is an indispensable building block for a europe closer to the people. it creates clarity, separates the chaff from the wheat, makes the lazy ones famous, and at the same time protects those absent for reasons such as serious illness, childbirth, or maternity leave.
i have to say, madam president, i too voted for the report. we could say: 'all is well, all is well', because we have achieved two things with this compromise: firstly, planning certainty for the car industry, and secondly, we have achieved the trick of setting an incentive. i support the new eu standards because they will make vehicles more fuel efficient and will help to ensure that european manufacturers can take the lead in clean vehicles. this means, on the one hand, encouraging the objectives to lead the way in technology and, on the other hand, not exaggerating the objectives. because setting goals that are too high can be demotivating. this compromise is good. that is why i support him strongly.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the fourth railway package is an important step towards strengthening environmentally friendly railways and towards the creation of the european railway area. the technical part was drawn up with broad agreement and close cooperation between the political groups. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply and for his work in this area. they have put the three technical dossiers in good order. i also thank the shadow reporters who have been very involved. we have great reservations about the political part, but the technical part is important. the railway for safety i was the rapporteur is the safest mode of transport in the eu. but the enemy of good is better. that is why every accident must be avoided and we must do everything we can to prevent it. but we need european recognition of safety certificates, because national safety certificates do not work. it's time-consuming, it costs money, and it jeopardizes security. that is why we must change this, and we are 30 years too late. we support the compromise reached and the commission's proposal to introduce a european safety certificate. here's how it works. companies apply to the european railway agency for a certificate for the member states in which they are to operate. the european railway agency coordinates and ensures consistent implementation of eu law and safety management and delegates detailed checks to national authorities. it is not a question of a european super-authority, but it is to coordinate and have the final say. because the 11,000 different national rules are insane! they must be reduced. it is not possible for each country to be selfish and to make its own laws. we need a european dimension here, because the lorry can go from lisbon to tallinn, but the railway must stop at every border. this has to stop! of course, the human factor is also important, especially in the area of safety. we therefore attach importance to working and resting times and to the skills of the employees. and we want a just culture so that the security risk is reduced if someone in a company notices something that could compromise security. there must be an independent body to which one can turn to avoid accidents in advance. i support the amendments calling for greater consideration of the human factor, and in particular driving and rest periods. this is the amendment tabled by the socialists and democrats, and we also support the 2018 period proposed by mrs ayala sender, so that we have a fixed date and no one can speak out. what's next? i hope that parliament will give its clear support to the committee's decision on the technical dossiers. we have a few amendments here too, and we have reached a consensus on this point, which we should maintain. the council has not yet completed its work on the fourth railway package, but it has already reached a position on safety and interoperability. we all wished he could do the same for the european railway agency. the greek minister for transport promised us in committee that we would do so. two days later we hear, "no, we can't do that, we don't have the capacity". but you took over the presidency of the council and could have made this dossier, because then we would have had all the technical parts ready for this parliamentary term. we are not going to allow this to happen. where there's a will, there's a way. we could have done all this! the new parliament must therefore reach an agreement quickly after the elections. the railways have a chance against the road only if they organise themselves in a european manner. we're way too late, but better now than never!
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. as part of the fourth railway package, the commission has proposed a new regulation for the railway agency. there is no objection to the substantive restructuring of the era with new tasks. however, the committee on budgets repeats what it has said on other occasions: we are against the commission's attempt to go beyond the 5% reduction in staff already agreed. no, we don't want another 5% cut and the creation of a so-called redeployment pool for agencies only. and we want the staff who do the jobs for industry and are funded by fees to be spared a cut. we want the services for industry to be processed quickly. we do not want european industry to be held back by completely senseless cuts in staff. on the contrary, we want the commission to provide us with a new financial statement, once the legislation has been finalised, which reflects all the additional tasks and thus the financial and human needs of the era. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. - has the committee on budgets also considered the fact that the staff who are at the era are to be replaced after five years and we have no skills on the market? that means we'd be smashing it, because the era would no longer be able to do all of that. is there an exception? have you dealt with it? we need the exception, we can't fire the capable people and hire the laymen who have no idea.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas is a very good one. so we didn't mess up everything. but if it is really the case that the personnel should be replaced - this is the exception, it does not exist in the agencies - then you simply have to prevent it. it is absurd to allow such a brain drain here in a european agency.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. - mr president, i have to go. i welcome the commission's proposals to improve the quality and efficiency of rail transport in europe by reducing red tape and facilitating market access, thus contributing to the creation of an internal railway market. we need a single transport area in europe on transnational routes. however, the european union is also a unity in diversity. the commission proposal to strictly separate infrastructure from transport ignores the particular situation of many small and medium-sized railway companies, which are mostly organised as integrated undertakings but are not of strategic importance for the functioning of the european rail market. a strict separation of infrastructure and operation in these companies, which generally employ fewer than 50 people, would not be possible simply by duplicating the staff structures. in view of the strained economic situation of these companies, this would threaten their very existence. i regret that the rapporteur and the committee on transport have not taken account of many of the proposals of the committee of the regions and i would ask for support for amendment no 87 at this point. thank you, sir.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not today, in front of parliament, many railway workers demonstrated against the widespread liberalization of european rail transport. they fear for their jobs and for wage dumping by cheap competitors in rail transport. our gue/ngl group expressly supports this protest! we consider the railways, with all their services, to be a public service. the fourth railway package is the commission's follow-up to its strict policy of liberalisation. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the railway package. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of the products is not affected by the liberalization of the market. massive savings lead to serious rail accidents and to worse working conditions for workers. we are particularly critical of the proposals for the separation of network and operation, which attack the group-wide labour market in the integrated railway companies. we are also strongly opposed to the extension of the obligation to tender for transport services. the package is against the interests of consumers in terms of cost, safety and availability. in addition, there is a risk of worsening working conditions. what particularly concerns me is the renewed attempt to abolish the right to strike by means of the so-called minimum services for strikes. this is unacceptable! i say, hands off the right to strike!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. first of all, i would like to thank all the rapporteurs for their efforts over the last year and a half to find a good solution. i shall also be going straight to the commission with this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission has so far - i have to say this - not presented an impact assessment of the competitive benefits that would ultimately result from the separation of the network from rail operations. however, there are studies that show just the opposite. higher costs, higher ticket prices, and also ultimately a reduction in infrastructure. i'm not saying that, you just have to look at the countries: look at the united kingdom, sweden, slovakia or the czech republic, romania, spain and so on. the ecj's ruling last year has overwhelmingly rejected your approach. that's one way of putting it. efficiency is not achieved by introducing a one-size-fits-all principle. i believe that efficiency and competition can be achieved by the same rules, technical harmonization and the strengthening of the regulatory authorities. i must therefore also say to you and to all those members who are planning to attack subsidiarity that this is not compatible with the national rules. ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to say quite frankly to you about the grosch report that clear competition rules are important and they are understandable. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is open to all and that it is open to all in each member state. nevertheless, this regulation creates legal uncertainty in some areas, such as direct procurement, which makes the opening of the market a threat to public passenger transport. amendment no 34, which refers to the most cost-effective way, simply means that the cheapest offer must be taken. this increases the pressure on direct awards and actually makes them almost absurd. amendment no 40, which ultimately concerns undercompensation and minimum services in the event of a strike, is unacceptable to me as a social democrat. that is why i ask you to change that if possible.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you very much for the question, mr president. i would like to take this opportunity to make a point. i was actually speaking to emphasize that we will continue to need integrated enterprises in the future, that it cannot be the commission's competence to interfere in the organisational structures of an enterprise. that's what i'm saying. and you don't have to explicitly mention the word unbundling. it is enough - and this is being done - that on various individual points, whether it be financial flows or supervisory boards, we want to work towards a separation. that is what i was trying to say and that is what i am still saying.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. and they have all been debated and adopted with great euphoria in the hope of achieving something which has not yet been achieved - which is why we need a fourth railway package - namely to enable crossborder competition on the railways. if we really want to make this happen in the long term, if we want to make the best possible use of the scarce rail infrastructure, i hope that the fourth railway package will finally make the contribution that is necessary, because i am expressly committed to this. but i really question whether it is necessary for the infrastructure manager to be separate from the railway services operator in order to allow this competition. we have member states in the european union where this is the case. we have member states in the european union where this is not the case. but it does not solve the problem of making more rail transport competitive. i therefore consider the road to interoperability to be much more important, namely to ensure that a train which is authorized and allowed to run in country a is of course also allowed to run in country b. it is anachronistic that we still operate the railway as in the 19th century and wonder that nothing works there and borders have still kept their separating, while we in europe boast that borders should lose their separating. that is why the terrible word 'interoperability' is of crucial importance, the type approval of technology, which is the only way we can really achieve greater competition on the railways. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we have the single market as a uniting element in europe and we have various fundamental freedoms. we are also saying that people should be able to travel across borders and we want to transport goods across borders without any problems. but we have not yet had that in the railway market in the way we would like. we need more rail. that is why we have the transeuropean networks with the appropriate funding. we also want to have more mutual access to other countries in the railway market. one thing is interoperability. we're all pretty much on the same page. it is not at all appropriate to block each other's access with technical sophistication, for example, as has happened in the english channel, where the deutsche bahn does not allow its ice to pass. we don't need that kind of play. that is why we said in the case of interoperability that we must see that this is better coordinated technically and that it can be certified more quickly with a single authority, namely at european level. the political part is really more difficult. but it 's true . one of the things we want, of course, is an integrated ticketing system, so that you actually have a view of which trains are running which routes, and that you can book that on an online platform. that's one thing. on the other hand, in germany, for example, we have a system which works well, although there is no separation between the network and the operator, but it is certainly something that needs to be improved. i would like to see transparency in the financial flows. it is not possible that public money can be used to buy up competitors or to gain an advantage. we have to sort out these things. that is a very clear thing. finally, the small railways we have in germany, for example, do not really need to use separation, because - as mr zeller has already said - they have only 50 to 60 employees and only operate a small route of 500 kilometres or less. i don't think we need to use that. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i said that with financial flow transparency as an example. i couldn't name everything because of the time limit. the fact is that i think that when public money is being spent somewhere, it is also in the public interest to know transparently what it is being used for. that's what i'm saying.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. my question is: according to the era, poland has the lowest level of railway safety. 1.2 billion euros was available from the european union for poland for the railways, and the polish government wanted to shift this money to the road. do you not think that the problem is more there than here in the european context?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu's white paper on transport policy rightly assumes that there is an increasing demand for transport, which must be met by the totality of transport modes rail, road, waterway and air . all modes of transport still have the potential to become safer, more efficient, cleaner, more consumer-friendly. it is not a way of putting a mode of transport at a disadvantage. i welcome the road to the creation of a genuine single european railway area. the fourth railway package is a respectable step in this direction, especially the almost uncontested technical parts of the package, which must be put into practice as soon as possible. they are the only ones that actually create more and fairer competition, they reduce bureaucracy. the destruction of functioning railway structures does not. i therefore prefer early and rapid agreement with the council on interoperability, rail safety and the european railway agency. the effectiveness of the political parts of the package is very differently assessed in this house. we must find common, transparent solutions here!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to go. the current situation is catastrophic: the procedure is lengthy, takes up to three years and costs a lot of money. and that has to change here in europe if we are to have a single railway area. the model for us is easa. twenty years ago, the situation in air transport was the same as in rail transport. they made it. it's become efficient, and we want to copy it. on direct award and regulation no 1370 i have a criticism of the commission: it was adopted in 2007 and entered into force in 2010, in germany it has only been in force for one year. and you said, after a mid-term review in 2015 and an impact assessment, you come up with a new proposal and you check and review what was good, what was bad. you've been here a year and you've come up with this. you can't get any good results at all. we want to continue to make direct award possible, but with reciprocity! the company which receives a direct award may not participate in the competition. that's our guideline. it's not about big or small. this guide needs to be secured. we want reciprocity! we have also introduced improvements in social rules and in switching suppliers. that's very important to us. it's about jobs. and when i talk about the separation of network and operation, we know in germany that the revenues from infrastructure have been used to buy companies on the other side of the world or to buy up competitors. this is destroying jobs here in europe, here in germany! we want to put an end to this, and the unions must understand that. that is why we want transparency! and we want the money from infrastructure to be invested in infrastructure, because there's a lot of money missing. and if that money had been invested, we would have created many jobs, we would have opened new lines and created more jobs. that's our direction! in germany, 80 billion euros have been invested in long-distance transport over the last 20 years and passenger numbers have not improved. this is the wrong way! that's why we need a change!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the rapporteur has already written a report on accidents in civil aviation. it is a very good job, as it was last time. it is in fact absolutely true what my colleagues have said: there will be a much greater increase in traffic in aviation, and we must of course do everything we can to prevent accidents. improving information and reporting is essential to this end. it is a very important point for me - and the rapporteur, mrs de veyrac, has also stressed this - that anyone who knows, even if he is a pilot, for example, how an accident happened can report on it and not be punished for what he says. so that no one who was involved in it should be afraid to actually pass on any of the things that he or she observed. because only when we have all this knowledge can we actually try to identify the causes of accidents and also to prevent them. that's why this is so important.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i would just like to say that i thank the european parliament rapporteur for the excellent cooperation and i hope that tomorrow’s vote will give support to the text and allow for a successful first-reading agreement.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ecall has the potential to greatly improve the effectiveness and speed of rescue: 112 ecall can speed up emergency response times by 40% in urban areas and 50% in the countryside. it could lead to an estimated average reduction in fatalities of between 2% and 10% and in severe injury of between 2% and 15%. this is why the commission made two legislative proposals last june: the first one addresses the in-vehicle part of the ecall service, to ensure that all new models of passenger cars and vans are equipped with the 112 ecall system by 1 october 2015. the second requests member states to deploy infrastructure for ecall emergency call centres by 1 october 2015, to ensure proper receipt and handling of ecalls in their territory. the commission also recommends that member states target mobile network operators to support the transmission of ecalls. we want to make 112 ecall simple, cheap and accessible for everyone. by using the free 112 number which is in use throughout the eu, we can guarantee almost total geographical coverage and a seamless service across the 28 member states. we also expect a positive effect on the competitiveness of europe’s automotive and ict industries. we also see a central role for galileo: europe’s high-precision satellite navigation system will bring improved accuracy and availability of positioning data to ecall. on data protection, the 112 ecall system is safe because it is based on technology that does not allow for any constant tracking. 112 ecall is a ‘dormant system’: the information only leaves the car in the event of a severe accident. i welcome the reports adopted by the imco and tran committees. we can support most of the amendments, which are very much in line with the content of the proposed decision. i would just like to highlight some elements that we need to keep in mind. the imco report on the type approval regulation allows consumers to opt for a private emergency call system, provided that public 112 ecall is installed as an automatic back-up. the commission does not oppose private ecall, but the vehicle must also be equipped with the 112 ecall service to ensure continuity and seamless service across the european union and throughout the lifetime of the vehicle. private ecall would also need to be subject to the rules on privacy and data protection. accepting the co-existence of the two systems is therefore only possible if these issues are correctly handled in the text and if such a solution is technically feasible and does not delay deployment. with the decision on public safety answering points, we regulate emergency call centres handling 112 ecalls, not private emergency calls. if it is accepted that private ecall can be used as an alternative to 112 ecall, then it is accepted that private ecall can be used as an alternative, but we do not regulate the handling of these private emergency calls. member states are still free to organise their emergency services in the most cost-effective way, as appropriate to their needs. we are not regulating the way their emergency services are organised. with this decision, we are regulating 112 ecall, not the single european emergency number 112. i understand that 112 ecall also creates some expectations for the ‘normal’ 112 on mobile phones, but let’s do ecall first and see afterwards what can be done for 112 within the universal service directive. it is now time to give ecall to the european citizens. i am confident that we will be able to do this very soon.
draft opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. - mr president, i have to go. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her cooperation, which has not always been easy. but we did manage to do it somehow. the only shame is that we have to deal with reality. but we shouldn't take the issue of privacy too lightly, because we're starting to take over the car interior with all these data readings, whether it's the car interior or the geodata. it is good that only a minimum amount of data is transferred and that the data is stored only for as long as it is absolutely necessary, including for legal reasons. it is difficult to go beyond this and to regulate this by private law. of course, we generally want to save lives in emergency situations, but we don't want to turn the car into a smartphone. that is why we should be especially careful about private matters. if you voluntarily provide additional information, for example on your blood type, and then lend your car, for example, you should be careful that the person who lent it does not necessarily have the same blood type. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. when i first presented my vision of a life-saving ecall in this house ten years ago, many questions remained unanswered. this was another reason why few were convinced of the value of such a system. today, hopefully, few still reject it. they are rare, the european laws that enable us to save over two and a half thousand lives a year and thus avoid immense suffering in families and billions of euros in economic consequences. the package of legislation on the 112 ecall, which is under discussion today, is one of them. it's a system that normally sleeps, and cannot be seen, cannot be tracked, and cannot send any signals. it's only when triggered manually or automatically by sensors relevant to the accident that it wakes up. now it sends a minimal amount of non-personalised data to a rescue centre and only to one rescue centre free of charge! there, people decide responsibly on the basis of this data and an attempt to telecontact the emergency call source about the immediate use of professional medical assistance. i would like to see this driver safety system, which is not used once at best, in every car, and later also in motorcycles and small commercial vehicles. therefore, no type approval without the built-in 112 ecall. the situation is different for the private ecall, which should not be confused with it. there are no limits on the provision of services by third parties. this is beneficial, it creates new opportunities for consumers and suppliers, and it should not be disadvantaged or even prohibited. only access to and use of vehicle-generated data need to be individually contractually regulated.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not first of all, i would like to thank mrs sehnalová very warmly for the excellent work she has done. we need to look at this: more than 30 years ago, the first trials were made for ecall, for emergency call systems for vehicles. and today we find that as many as 1 percent of vehicles have these systems. i think we cannot wait another time to actually reach 100 percent. that is why this legislation is so important today. imagine this: you're in a vehicle, you have an accident somewhere at night on a country road that's not very well-traveled. you can't make your own distress call anymore, and you have to wait two hours, three hours, maybe four hours for help to arrive. these are the situations in which such a system is particularly important. in this context, we were of course also very interested in how this was organized. it is important that this ecall system is first connected to the 112 emergency number. secondly, it only sends signals when there is a real need for it - the so-called sleeping system. because we know what can happen to such systems if we don't. but, of course, we all have our iphones or our phones in our cars, so that's why this traceability is there, but we don't want to install it in our cars. that is why the data protection issues are of the utmost importance, and i think we have found very good solutions to this. the decision on the voluntary addition of other systems is left to the individual citizen, and he must know that. we cannot dictate what these manufacturers have planned for their services, we cannot prohibit one or the other, that is impossible. however, data protection must be right, that is very important.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would like to thank mrs sehnalová very much for her good cooperation and her great willingness to integrate data protection issues into her report. i must also stress, and i do want to stress this, that the report is a significant improvement on the commission's proposal. however, and mrs sehnalová knows this, my group will not be voting in favour of your report tomorrow. the greens reject the mandatory introduction of the ecall system. we all want to prevent fatal accidents, of course, and there is no question about that. i would like to emphasize this once again. the question must be allowed, however, as to which means are the most appropriate. a nationwide speed limit of just 10 km/h would prevent a great many deaths. i wonder why the commission is not taking action in this direction. the question whether the mandatory introduction of the ecall system is proportionate and appropriate and whether it can actually achieve its objective must remain legitimate. we have considerable doubts about this: lack of infrastructure still , vulnerability to errors for example the filtering of missed calls , but above all also the unresolved data protection problems. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. but i want to make one thing very clear: we will not vote for the on/off button. the on/off button creates legal problems which cannot be solved in this type-approval regulation and which would then eventually have to be fought in court. we don't want that. we do not want to see the forced introduction of a controversial project and therefore reject it!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. mr van de camp said that we want to reduce the number of road deaths to 20 000. we are basically trying to reduce the number of road deaths to zero, which is our noble aim. it's a hell of a lot of work, but we're working on it. i am on the committee on transport and i think that improving road safety is a very important issue. that is absolutely right and, of course, it can be done. there is a constant discussion about reduced speed, but even at lower speeds, semi-severe accidents can happen. that is why it is perfectly logical that we are talking about this ecall system and saying that we want to put ecall in cars because it can definitely lead to an automatic emergency call and thus to greater safety. but i have always suspected, even though i'm on the transport committee, that all the innovative systems that i welcome and support to have intelligent traffic management - less congestion, less emissions, less deaths - we're usually dealing with data. this data is something that concerns the private citizen as well, and we want to protect privacy. i think this is very important. and now it was said - i think mr malcolm harbour said this - we want the airbag to be triggered automatically. that's right! but the airbag doesn't store any data, just like the seat belt that's being put on doesn't store any data. but ecall can! and even if it is a dormant system, i don't trust the dormant system 100 percent. sometimes it can be more alert than we would like. that is why it is very important, and i agree with my colleague sophie, that we have an on/off switch. it's supposed to be voluntary, to turn it on or off. there was talk of cell phones. of course, we usually have our cell phones and smartphones with us. it also allows you to track where you are and create motion profiles. but it's up to me to turn it on or not. i'm free to decide. once it's in there, and you can't turn it on or off, it's not a free choice. and that is why i am against us introducing such a system.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. no one in this house will oppose speeding up the provision of assistance to accident victims. that's all right. i also believe the privacy concerns about the introduction. but these systems can do much more, we know that from the past. such systems also arouse desires that are already virulent today. authorities could create motion profiles, and you could easily expand that. in germany, insurance companies are already celebrating the fact that they are linking their insurance premiums to the collection of such ecall data. this is all wrong. if you want to help victims of accidents, you should think about equipping the emergency services a little better. it is lacking in every corner of europe. the data protection is not sufficiently clarified and, above all, not fully guaranteed. we want to prevent the widespread use of surveillance capabilities from ultimately undermining the rule of law and the right to privacy. we want to see that the consumer's obligation does not take place in this way. we reject a general commitment by european consumers in this respect. consumers must be able to decide for themselves whether and, if so, to what extent they want to use such a device in their vehicle.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, i would like to thank mrs sehnalová for taking up and weighing all the arguments which have been wildly and sometimes strangely convoluted in this debate and for coming to the conclusion that we can accept this proposal. it's a good suggestion, all in all. we have asked the european data protection supervisor in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection - the chairman, malcolm harbour, has mentioned it again earlier - whether there is a problem with a regulation that only triggers this ecall when the airbag is deployed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data protection rules are applied in the member states. i therefore have to admit that either i must have misunderstood his answer or the colleagues who have just spoken were perhaps not present at that hearing. we should not be looking for problems, which are of course inherent in any regulation. we should aim to reduce the number of road deaths by 28 000 and make europe's roads safer. there are undoubtedly other ways in which we can do this. i am the last person to say that this will be a measure of great progress. but it's going to be an important step. those who have had to mourn the death of a family member in a road accident would speak about this issue differently from the way it has been heard here in part. of course there are still problems in the area of emergency services, of course there are still problems in the accessibility of 112, but with this system we are using everything that is technically possible to help victims quickly. i do not see any good arguments against it, despite all the good intentions. that is why we should say: ecall can save lives, the system is flawless in terms of data protection. we should try not to look for things which have turned out to be unproblematic in many discussions with the data protection authorities, with the manufacturers, and to bring them up again. it's right that we take this step now. and we will of course also ensure in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection that the monitoring of the functioning of the systems does not end today, but we will also ensure that data protection is respected in the future. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am not a motorcyclist like my colleague wim van de camp, who spoke earlier on the basis of his motorcycle experience. as a family man, i know that i cannot leave the driver to decide for himself what is safe in the vehicle. there are other passengers who deserve our protection just as much and who can be just as affected in road accidents. so i think there is a responsibility to ensure that such a system is not only operated by the driver, but that we have to ensure that all the occupants of the vehicle have the same protection. i therefore believe it is right that in the event of the release of an airbag - and this does not usually happen in minor accidents - we should make the system mandatory for all in the interests of road safety, including the co-drivers.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i would like to begin by thanking you for the overall good cooperation we have had. we have prepared the committee's decision in many meetings. we have some open questions. however, a balanced and consumer-friendly revision of the imd2 has been achieved. i want to make the following points: firstly, consumers, insurance intermediaries and the many small insurance agencies find the regulation to be reasonable and manageable. secondly, the decision strengthens the rights of consumers to obtain information on the nature and origin of the remuneration of their insurance intermediaries. thirdly, we are ensuring greater transparency, which helps to put the interests of clients ahead of the remuneration interests of intermediaries. fourthly, we have adopted a balanced compromise which gives the honest mediators in europe extended information obligations in order to avoid miscalculations due to insufficient information being given by a few mediators. fifthly, product information documents will be introduced in the future, which will provide consumers with concise information on risks, the nature and extent of insurance cover, contractual conditions and terms. this will help to compare the offers. sixthly, we have set clear guidelines for the insurance industry throughout europe on the training and continuing training requirements for insurance intermediaries. the aim is to provide for a total of 200 hours, i.e. one week, of compulsory continuing training by independent bodies per year over a period of five years. the member states are responsible for this. then we have a chapter that we have discussed at length, insurance investment products. these - we have agreed - are to be amended and adapted in a similar way to the financial markets directive through mifid, while still taking into account the specificities of insurance, in order to allow for consistent legislation that also regulates the same products in the financial and insurance markets, but specifies this in the respective legislative texts and equates non-pure insurance products with speculative financial market products. that was the objective we were pursuing. the insurance and financial markets have intersections. however, a clear distinction must be made between the different products. the econ decision takes account of these differences and provides the consumer with comprehensible information and additional transparency in the outcome, without treating intermediaries unfairly. we've shed light on commission payments, disclosure of nature and source. there are further wishes, namely full disclosure. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a fire. we have simplified the sometimes confusing coupling operations and decided that individual components must also be offered separately to the consumer. and we agreed common rules for insurance investment products with mifid and proper integration. i have been able to implement to the greatest extent possible in the proposals with the shadow rapporteurs what we have agreed and respected. i would like to thank you very much for that. even if we introduce some split votes, even if we table some amendments, i believe that in the end this report will be able to win the approval of all. thank you all again.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the insurance industry has in recent years shown itself to be one of the most persistent lobbies. we have a lot of consumer protection problems in this area, especially in investment. for years, products under mifid have been subject to better european consumer protection standards than insurance-based investment products. that is why it was so gratifying that the commission wanted to go along with its proposal here. we have found in econ a balanced compromise which strengthens consumer protection in some areas and weakens it in others, compared with the commission's proposal. now some motions have been tabled here in the house. some strengthen consumer protection, others weaken it. some proposals move away from what has now been achieved in the recent reform of mifid, others do not. i would appeal to the members to make this a standard, so that we can finally achieve fair competition between banking products, between funds on the one hand and insurance products on the other. that should be the standard tomorrow. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would really ask the members to come back to this agreement on adjustment!
member of the commission. - madam president, i can be brief because the speeches were consistent, even though some points were raised. firstly, as regards the standard of consumer protection, which mrs stihler mentioned, i think it is an important subject which must be discussed again in the trilogues, particularly to ensure consistency, as i said myself, with the other texts, not to mention the very specific nature of the insurance sector. i agree with mrs gáll-pelcz. if we had had these rules... i could say this in many other areas that werner langen, olle schmidt, mr giegold and mr sánchez presedo know well, because we have worked a lot on all the regulatory texts. it is clear that if we had had all this architecture of texts, supervision, transparency, consumer protection, bank capitalisation, many crises, mrs gall-pelcz, would not have occurred. in that case, i think, as you do, that if we had had these rules before the crisis, we would certainly have avoided some of the dubious sales practices that have caused a great deal of damage to investors and consumers. i think, like mr sánchez presedo, that informed choice, better informed, rigorously informed, is important and that we must find - i agree with him - that balance between freedom of supply and protection and freedom of the consumer. mr giegold has supported this text and i thank him for that. mr schmidt referred to a point which is still under debate, namely the alignment or consistency with mifid, in particular amendments 4 and 5. i need us to examine these proposals in the trilogues. i understand the rapporteur's motives and those of the texts. there are still some questions that need to be examined. forgive me, mr. schmidt, for not being more specific today. i cannot be because i need to work with your rapporteur in the trilogues that are about to begin to answer some more specific questions. i appreciate your understanding.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president! - what is it? i would like to thank my colleagues for their fair assessment of the compromise, including the commissioner. i would also like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs, mr sánchez presedo, mr olle schmidt, mr sven giegold, mr ashley fox, mr jürgen klute and mrs stihler. it was a very good and fair discussion, despite the differentiated starting point. commissioner, it was by no means a quick decision-making process. your submission is dated 3 july 2012. it is more than a year and a half since we started the consultations. and the council is still asleep. so whether or when we're going to get this done, nobody knows at this point. i do not expect it in this term, but in the next. mrs stihler said she would have liked to have tightened the rules on conflict prevention. we have largely adopted the imco proposals in the report as regards dispute settlement. we have, however, left it to the member states to decide which authorities are responsible. i also think that this is the right way forward in general, that the member states can go further if they wish without us imposing this in general terms. but thank you for your support. in the course of the procedure, mr sánchez presedo, in particular in connection with the coupling operations, submitted his own proposals, which were based on the mortgage directive, while mr olle schmitt partly disagreed. we have now found a compromise which, i believe, will enable us to settle this matter by mutual consent. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the greens have tabled another amendment to the ban on commissions. i think that a ban on commissions is never a sensible regulation. and as regards the adaptation of proposals 4 and 5 to mifid and what we can already adopt today, the texts contain a wide range of proposals. i am convinced that they are in part better than what is available in the interim on mifid. we have to negotiate, but we also have to look at the specifics. i am sure that in the negotiations, in which the shadow rapporteurs are involved, we will continue to pursue this objective. i do not want to have backdoor regulations in the text that do not apply to insurance products. mr sven giegold, whom i thank for having agreed to this compromise at the end, has of course tabled a number of other amendments from the greens. i have mentioned two - one - and our group cannot agree to the ban on commissions. i am speaking now also on behalf of the group of the european people's party. and the second one is the newly introduced article 26a, which allows eiopa to intervene in the market and ban products. in my view, this is the task of the national supervisory authorities and not of the european institution eiopa. that is why we are in favour of rejecting this motion, this part. what i would like to think about again are the exceptions. i'll give you that. we are now having discussions in our group which are still ongoing. i'll talk to you about it later. we shall see how our group votes on this in the morning. unlike the greens, we have a relatively large group who want to be informed about the content and not just nod in the end. that may be the difference between the smaller and the larger. i would like to thank all those involved.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - madam president, commissioner, this health for growth programme comes at a time of great challenges associated with globalisation and the delicate economic situation affecting the european union, as well as with the ageing of society. as rapporteur for the committee on industry, research and energy, i would like to stress the many opportunities that the programme offers to strengthen the union's action in various health-related areas. i am referring to health inequalities, both between regions and between sectors of the population; to the management of new diseases from developing countries, resulting from migration flows; to the training and skills needs generated by so-called white jobs, jobs in the health and social services sector; and to the possibilities offered by new technologies to develop the potential of health services and improve their effectiveness and efficiency. i am confident that the resources offered by the new programme will make it possible to respond to these challenges and opportunities, in order to provide better and more innovative healthcare.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. health is our greatest asset. we all know that without it, everything is nothing. it is worth much more to us than just an economic factor. but still, health is also very much related to economics. when health is lost, a person can earn less or nothing. on the other hand, maintaining health with the necessary measures will also restore economic success through the creation of jobs in the health sector. health systems and the necessary care are secured throughout the european union in all member states. this is a highly valued asset for social security. the member states are not happy to be talked into this either. but european cooperation is important when it comes to added value. we can achieve this much better and more effectively in good european cooperation. i would like to thank my colleague, mrs françoise grossetête, for her excellent and outstanding contribution to the multiannual action programme in this field. it has taken up important aspects and also elaborated on them. demographic change and an ageing society in europe present new challenges. older people have a higher need for health care, they have more age-related diseases and they often need intensive care and care. the changes in society bring with them changes in disease. europeans are now faced with many more chronic diseases. changes in living conditions and circumstances affect physical well-being. the negotiations with the council and the commission were lengthy. the result can be seen. we are committed to a europe 2020 strategy. it aims to promote innovation in healthcare, ensure sustainability and improve the well-being of all european citizens.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent report. where do i see the emphasis? firstly, the precautionary principle. we have a variety of programmes in the european union, such as the european platform for action on nutrition, physical activity and health or the european school fruit and milk scheme. and i can say that in my own state the school fruit programme has been very well received. we usually have twice as many applicants for the program as can be funded and replaced. i therefore welcome the commission's decision to invest more money in this area. it is extremely positive that the promotion of healthy lifestyles and education is also included in this programme. we should also encourage more exchanges here. because there are many programmes, for example, by the german liquor association, which, without revealing themselves, have psychologists carry out information on alcohol abuse in schools. so the association doesn't perform, it finances it. maybe we should spread the word. i also think that certain funding programmes should be linked more closely, such as the erasmus+ sports programme, which could also serve as an information tool for health promotion. health systems management: ladies and gentlemen, it has shocked me that in greece, austerity has limited health care. it is a bit paradoxical that the troika is still discussing cuts in this area. but the commission has responded well. i think it is extremely important that more resources should be made available to member states with below average gdp. demographic change has been mentioned a few times today. it is not just about medical care, but we must also create the conditions in which the elderly in rural areas can make the most of their lives. i think we have a lot of work to do. one final point: mobile workers. i have received mail from an employee who was working in the netherlands and who had an accident at work. he got fired, then he went back to germany and fell into a hole in the social security system. he gets no money, no benefits, no compensation. i think you need to take a closer look at this. i am sure that this was a mistake on his part, but if we want to promote freedom of movement in europe, we must also ensure that we do not encourage such developments here.
rapporteur. - madam president, it has been an honour and a privilege to be the rapporteur for the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) on the proposal for a directive on the accessibility of public sector bodies’ websites and websites operated by entities performing public tasks. this piece of legislation is long overdue and eagerly awaited both by citizens with disabilities and by our increasingly ageing population who find themselves more and more isolated and excluded from a world where information is accessible primarily online. in europe this amounts to 80 million citizens with disabilities and another 87 million aged over 65. 167 million european citizens is too great a number to be ignored. throughout my involvement with this dossier, i have seen what these people face when trying to navigate their way online. i was particularly struck by the difficulties faced by the blind, which was exemplified at an imco committee hearing held in april 2013. ioanna-maria gertsou, a blind woman who owns a school for guide dogs in athens, came to parliament for a web accessibility demonstration and got visibly lost on traditional websites. however, despite the fact that assistive technology already exists, europe has been lagging far behind. we are the european union. we should be setting the agenda, not struggling, or even failing, to keep up. less than one third of europe’s public sector and government websites, and even less than 10[nbsp ]% of europe’s websites in general, are fully accessible. making websites and their content useable for all should already have become a priority at eu level. the commission’s initial proposal was limited in scope and not fully in line with the goals promised in the digital agenda for europe. the imco committee was more ambitious, and made a number of significant amendments to the text. the directive now covers all eu public sector bodies’ websites and websites providing public services, as now laid down in a new annex. it now covers mobile web and apps and includes a robust enforcement mechanism. the specifications for accessibility are technology-neutral and based on the international web content accessibility guidelines 2.0, also known as wcag. this directive is essentially a forerunner in the planned european accessibility act, which i know is also being eagerly awaited by our citizens. the scope, along with the enforcement mechanisms and monitoring systems, reflects the binding obligations set out in the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and the commitments made in the digital agenda for europe. in addition, with the implementation of a harmonised european approach, making these websites accessible also has the potential to be a highly profitable business. the financial benefits are currently estimated at eur[nbsp ]2 billion. members of this parliament will vote tomorrow to deliver on their commitment to uphold the rights of disabled people. however, this is only the first step in the legislative process. we regret the lack of engagement by previous presidencies on this dossier. however, i thank commissioner kroes for having openly supported our legislative work using one of the most modern ways of rapid communication, twitter. i thank her for that. i am sure the greek presidency will follow up the good work on this file and it is completely feasible that the italian presidency will be able to bring this dossier into legislation. in our increasingly digital world, accessibility is very much a human right. all people are entitled to use the internet in order to exercise their fundamental rights. i hope tomorrow’s vote will cement parliament’s commitment on this. lastly, i must emphasise that cooperation with my shadow rapporteurs last year was both consensual and produced a directive that should be acceptable to all and i thank them for that.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the directive is a long overdue step towards equality for disabled people and the elderly. it finally obliges public authorities to ensure that websites are accessible. i would appeal to the administrations and municipalities not to take advantage of the three-year transitional period but to provide their citizens with access to services much earlier. we in the green group support the report, but we would have liked to have gone further. we greens would like to see all the social services included in this directive. because it is not possible that one part of the population knows how much the water charges are and another part does not. we can only hope that there are good-willed authorities throughout europe who will interpret this as the directive says, namely that wherever public money is involved, accessibility must be ensured, and that they will also involve their contractors in this. the technical part of the directive remains unclear. and this is the most important part of it, because it guarantees accessibility. here the universal design is pronounced, but it is not in the directive and we very much regret that it is free and open source software that should be used. i can only appeal to the commission to ensure that in its delegated act it calls for free and open source software in order to really enable universal access for all sections of the population and for all people in europe!
rapporteur. - madam president, my thanks go to all colleagues, especially to adam kósa, the intergroup chair, who really contributed to this piece of legislation. this is both an ethical issue and a commercial issue. it is about basic and fundamental human rights and it is about jobs. yes, the report is ambitious and i will admit that it has been made more ambitious by parliament, but it is a feasible report, this is a feasible issue. the ball, as many colleagues and commissioner kroes have said, lies now in the court of the council of the member states. yes, and with our vote tomorrow we will take an important step. and i am very confident that the next parliament will take up its work where we end it now and will bring this to an end together with the forthcoming italian presidency.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, the common european sales law is meant to allow businesses and consumers to choose a single set of contract tools for their cross-border transactions within the european union. let me start with businesses, and in particular small and medium-sized businesses. for them it dramatically cuts transaction costs: no need to get acquainted with 28 different legal regimes anymore; no more legal fees to adapt contracts to different rules; just one single law and one single it platform to sell the products throughout the european union; a whole new continent of business opportunities – mostly for our small businesses, mostly for our start-ups. for consumers the new rules bring choice: choice because greater offer means increased competition, which in turn means lower prices. for our consumers there are undeniable advantages to shopping cross-border online. they do not do it today because they are mistrustful about what is happening when they are shopping on the other side of the border. now they will have a real deal: one that means they can compare offers, select the best, order it from anywhere in europe with the click of a mouse button. and they will be well protected when they buy cross-border. and that is exactly the core of the common european sales law: the guarantee of consumer protection. the proposed level of consumer protection is equal to or higher than the existing eu harmonised rules. it is comparable to and higher than almost all non-harmonised areas of national law. it is in any case, and i emphasise in any case, not lower than the protection of consumers in great britain and consumers in germany – because it is always those which are quoted – or consumers in france. it is at least at the same level, if not higher, and it is of an optional nature. that means – and this is the first time that we have had this in a european law – we are letting people choose. if they want it, they choose it. if they do not want it, they do not choose it. that is a win-win situation for businesses and consumers alike in their cross-border dealings. we really hope with this that we will break through this wall, the real wall which exists today, because neither businesses nor consumers trust cross-border e-commerce because they are not sure that their rights are going to be preserved. well, we give them the certainty that their rights will be preserved. we hope that this will lead to a bigger exchange of goods across borders and create jobs in this movement. i would very much like to thank klaus-heiner lehne and luigi berlinguer. they have been very strong supporters of an optional european common sales law. their report is a key step towards the adoption of the proposal. it is a balanced base for further negotiation between the co-legislators. we need to keep up the prospect of real benefits for both in these negotiations. the consumers have benefits; the businesses have benefits. one of the reasons why i have been constantly against the idea of transforming the optional common european sales law into a minimum harmonisation directive is exactly that one, because such an approach would mean a change of national laws, and we do not need to change the national laws. there is nothing wrong with the national laws. it would require all businesses to adapt to new legal requirements. we do not need red tape: we need to eliminate red tape. going to a harmonisation directive would mean the opposite of what we do here. we would have less protection and we would have more red tape. that is why, for the first time, we have chosen a very new way of going ahead: leaving the national law in place; bringing out a second set of rules to provide security for consumers who like to buy cross-border and to give easy access to the market for companies who like to sell cross-border. choice is at the centre of what we are doing here: choice for businesses, choice for consumers. they should consider it an advantage; they should be ready to choose. so let us provide these new business opportunities; let us give our consumers a guarantee of real, tangible protection when they shop cross-border and let us finally bring back trust to consumers: buying cross-border is not a risk – i am protected as a consumer. i should like to thank this house for moving in this direction.
adopted on 13december.the commission has decided to extend the deadline for the submission of comments to the council's opinion on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1612/1999 on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men andwomen in matters of social security. - mr president, i have to go. i would like to stress on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection that parliament is making a mistake today, a very big mistake, because it is going to take exactly the path proposed by the european commission. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the consumer is not left behind in the market. it's obvious, we just need to look at it. what does that mean, what we're ordering today? we'll have two parallel worlds. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the consumer is not discriminated against. and at the same time, this optional, this parallel world, makes sure that regulations that exist to protect the consumer, such as rome i, are called into question because they can no longer be applied. it is precisely this rome i rule which ensures that, where a higher-value right exists in the consumer's country of purchase, this will in any event apply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. even we as members of parliament do not know all of them. i am not going to go into detail. i say to you that it is a great service we are doing to the citizens here by taking this path. i very much hope that the governments and the council of ministers will not agree to this. i have high hopes that it will be so.
adopted on 16 february. the commission has decided to extend the period of validity of the authorisation for the placing on the market of the medicinal product concerned to the period from 1 january 2002 to 31 december 2003. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. as a co-rapporteur on this subject at imco, i am quite opposed to my co-rapporteur who has just spoken. i am sure that the european law of sale must have a wide scope of application! the european law of purchase is an opportunity for the single market of 28 member states. it will become more transparent. small and mediumsized enterprises can benefit enormously, but consumers also benefit from this right to buy. you get a wider variety, a larger volume, a larger supply, and therefore lower prices. contrary to some opinions, a high level of consumer protection is embodied on average, much higher than the level of consumer protection in all member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is an option, and anyone who wants to exercise it can do so, but he does not have to. the vote we are taking today is the right thing to do in the interests of our responsible citizens.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we shall be voting on this today. and i would like to thank commissioner reding very specifically for pushing this project so vigorously during this parliamentary term that we can finally vote on it today. this has been a beacon of light for our liberal group for decades. and it was also we liberals who, because of the resistance, limited the scope to distance contracts or online trade. it is good for consumers, because the level of consumer protection is indeed higher on average than in most member states. i would like to reply to mr fox here, and i am speaking specifically as a german: we germans have no need to shop cross-border on the internet, because as the largest member state we are in the fortunate position of being able to buy everything from german suppliers on the internet, although of course that is not the point. the supply in the uk is not quite as large, but it is still largely covered. but if you go on to other member states, you end up with a service desert. if you go on the internet in belgium and try to order something you are used to from germany, you simply cannot get it. we have no single market in this area at all. and that's what companies are all about. it is good for businesses that a digital single market will be created in the first place, that cross-border online purchases will be possible in the first place, because then both businesses and consumers will know which law will apply and the existing legal uncertainty will be removed. and as for the member states, i hope they will agree, because we in the european parliament have clearly distanced ourselves from a uniform european civil code, which is not our competence, nor is it necessary. after almost five years in the legal affairs committee, i am a big fan of optional instruments, because all efforts to achieve partial or full harmonization have proved extremely difficult. i personally rejected the consumer protection directive because i think it has failed completely.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i've been listening to you very carefully. i simply want to ask you to explain to me again whether you really think that the optional instrument is right from a consumer protection point of view and that it is simply a matter of the consumer not really having a choice whether he chooses to do so or not, but that the consumer protection conditions of the optional law are absolutely appropriate in your view.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. you said we had to choose between mrs reding's opinion and mrs gebhardt's opinion. do you know that currently only 7 to 8% of cross-border online purchases are made? i ask you: which single market is it that you want to destroy? do you think that 7 to 8% of cross-border purchasing is already a single market? i would like to ask you this, because i believe that you believe that small businesses will only sell if they can apply european sales law. but then, of course, we hope to achieve a 100% internal market.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not yes, i'm a woman too. i also deal with the issue of youth unemployment. thank you very much. but i must also say very clearly: in 2009 we already had structural youth unemployment. i would also like to disagree with you, mr minister, in that this is a purely economic matter that we are discussing. we had structural youth unemployment, and of course the debt crisis has also worsened the economy and the situation in general. and now we are faced with percentages of 25, 35 to 60 per cent youth unemployment, which a continent like europe simply cannot afford and must not afford any more! that is why i cannot understand why the council and the commission decided to launch the youth guarantee in 2013 and now the implementation plans are being presented in 2014 we will probably need another year for implementation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in other words, in those five years, someone could have gone on to a vocational training course, could have had a thousand internships, could have completed a university degree. we are talking about young people and their biographies. we cannot afford to wait here all the time until a measure is finally worked out again. i also have to say very clearly: i think there is a massive failure here, both on the part of the member states, the governments and the commission! i've had an incredible number of companies come to me in the last two years, ngos, wanting to get involved, complaining that there's no support, no coordination. we cannot wait here and wait for the next decision. this is about young people! and we need precisely these young people to enter the labour market with the right qualifications. we need a transition from school to work that works much better, and we need the businesses, the economy, to take action. we must see that it is the companies that create jobs. and this is what we must focus on, including reforms both within the structures in the member states - training that fits - and ultimately in the companies, so that they can invest again and create jobs.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i agree with mrs nadja hirsch that it took a long time for the council to finally adopt the youth guarantee. we greens had the idea of the youth guarantee because we wanted young people to have a perspective, even in times of crisis. the importance of this was shown by the fact that regions in 20 member states need and are entitled to additional eu assistance for this purpose. however, only 19 member states have fulfilled their own commitment and adopted the youth guarantee implementation plan. what about the others? some wealthy member states boast comparatively low youth unemployment rates. but when i look at it more closely - in germany, for example - i find that in some regions the unemployment rate among those under 25 is twice as high as the average unemployment rate. the young people are unemployed there, although there are training places. they have dropped out of school because the unequal opportunities in the german education system discourage many pupils on their way to school. the decline into unemployment for these young people begins early. the youth guarantee is for everyone in the european union. i therefore call on the european commission to put pressure on the member states which are not doing their job. the price of youth unemployment is very high and we are all paying it!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. to be honest, i had hoped that today we would learn something really new, something concrete, and that the endless discussion about the introduction of the youth guarantee, and that everything is bad, would finally stop, and that we would put an end to this unreasonable situation that young people in europe have and offer them a perspective. of course, the youth guarantee can only be one element. it is a medicine, but it is not a cure for youth unemployment. we must not lose sight of the objective of not just putting young people into any kind of employment. we need good, sustainable employment that also provides the means to make a living. there is also mobility from spain to germany, from greece to the netherlands or wherever, not the solution. i'm taking too long with this. the commissioner andor has also pointed out the unspeakable, unfortunate, and inconclusive role of the member states and the council. i wish there was more going on. we need good jobs for our young people and structural reforms!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is no doubt that youth unemployment, especially in southern and eastern europe, is one of the greatest evils of the moment. in 13 out of 27 member states of the european union, people under 25 have no prospects for the future. this is something that we europeans must not only doubt and complain about, but we must insist that those who are responsible for this should take care that it gets better. it is clear that we cannot stand by here in strasbourg and create jobs now. that is not the task of a parliament here in strasbourg or of officials in brussels. but we can give young people opportunities and help. the youth guarantee is a proven way of saying: you have a chance here. in my home country of bavaria, we have, thank god, a situation where we have created opportunities with dual training, and for decades we have also been advocating that we create more opportunities with dual vocational training than with a bunch of academically educated students and children who then end up with a high degree but no opportunity for jobs. because the entrepreneurs will provide us with the jobs for our young people. but if we are always insulting them, if we are always insulting them, if we think that we as parliaments, as the european commission, have to impose something on them, then that will not help. we must work together to create opportunities for young people to have prospects. we want to do that, and that is why i am glad that the youth guarantee is a way of helping here, but not necessarily of exhausting all the possibilities that exist so far. i wish... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, this is not the way to do it. you're not asking a specific question. i beg your indulgence. i'm trying to make this as fair as possible. the way some of our colleagues here treat each other is quite memorable. (end of the 'catch-the-eye' procedure)
member of the commission. - mr president, even if this is not the first discussion about youth employment and the youth guarantee in this house, i believe it is very important to discuss this again and again, especially at a time when the member states are already in the implementation phase. they are in the programming phase of the financial instruments. it is very important to highlight this, because now is the time for us to deliver the very clear message that youth employment, and particularly the implementation of the youth guarantee, must be seen as a priority, not only in countries where the youth unemployment rate is higher than 25%, but in those cases in particular. i share the view that the implications of the current situation are very serious. the large-scale emigration to other continents of hundreds of thousands of young people from quite a few of the member states severely affected by the crisis and the demographic consequences of the crisis is quite serious. that is why our efforts also have to be concentrated and effective. there is no single cause of this high level of youth unemployment in the european union; there is a combination of structural and cyclical factors, and there is no silver bullet. the youth guarantee is not a silver bullet either. however, it is a flagship initiative which can carry several other proposals and reforms as well as the necessary support at european level. the right combination of the measures which will help to implement the youth guarantee in turning this ambition into reality has to be worked out at national level. that is why it is very important that the governments of the member states focus on this now. ms hirsch and others have asked why this proposal was agreed about a year ago. as you probably know, the commission did not put this proposal on the table for the first time last year. in 2010, when we launched the europe 2020 strategy in strong partnership with parliament, the proposal was already on the table. however, as i have pointed out in this house before, in 2010 and 2011 there was some complacency and the false expectation that europe would quite easily emerge from the crisis and that there was no need for comprehensive reforms. by the time of the second recession, which started in 2011 and deepened in 2012, there was already an understanding that new, comprehensive and more forceful measures were needed. we launched a reprogramming of eu funds and, through reprogramming more than eur[nbsp ]10[nbsp ]billion, helped to provide more direct and immediate support for many young people in the eight member states worst hit by youth unemployment. one year ago the council also agreed that it was important and necessary to implement the youth guarantee itself. this is not the right moment to have a country-by-country evaluation. please understand that this would require more time, but that after the council meeting to be held in march and at the conference to be held on 8[nbsp ]april, which i have already announced, we will be able to speak very frankly and openly about what is lacking, where the weaknesses lie and what else needs to be done in order to complete the implementation plan and ensure its quality. we will also come back to this in the european semester under the country-specific recommendations. the examples that have been mentioned in this debate today are very important in order to highlight the fact that all countries have something to build on. eu support through the european social fund is not just starting today. the impulso jovem in portugal, the giovanisì in italy, the youth contract in the uk and many other programmes that are already functioning should be seen as a good starting point, but they all need to be upgraded. nothing that is functioning now is sufficient to deliver the guarantee. the member states have to see through what measures they can build on the existing programmes and operations and bring them up to the level of a proper youth guarantee. so this is a process to upgrade, support, monitor and, for the commission, to coordinate this progress. there is a need for new types of partnerships between, for example, employment and education arms of various governments. we have been doing this from the very start in the commission, and that is also why commissioner androulla vassiliou will be present and will play a role in the april conference on the youth guarantee in brussels. that should also bring answers to ms bauer’s question about the importance of tackling early school leaving and if possible continuing with education, because we cannot abandon anyone. we cannot declare that young people in any eu country are untrainable. another important new partnership is between politics and business. it is true that most jobs are created by businesses. we work, for example, with the involvement of commissioner neelie kroes in very close cooperation with companies that can create apprenticeships and jobs in the area of info-communication technology and other cutting-edge sectors. but the youth guarantee is not only about jobs in the private economy. it is also about further training and apprenticeships, so it is also about other types of activities. so while it is important to ensure that the overall economic situation and competitiveness improve, it is not sufficient. we have to see the wider range of activities which are necessary. we also have to look at financial resources. quite a few members of the house emphasised that eur[nbsp ]6[nbsp ]billion is not enough. we never said that this would be enough. it is a necessary top-up in the regions which are in the worst situation. this comes to top up the european social fund resources, but already other resources have been identified. the european investment bank, for example, offered support in various ways, for example by concessional lending to companies if they hire young people. but the eib also provides the bridging finance in order to ensure that the member states can start implementation even if they have to wait until the operational programmes are approved if they want to draw from the youth employment initiatives. so the bridging finance can also be drawn from the european investment bank. i think this is a very important piece of information. investment from all these resources is not only about training but also to make hiring easier and to boost the demand for labour. so there is a variety of ways that have been identified where eu resources can be used in a coordinated way to provide solutions. finally, let me just highlight the fact that, apart from the events in brussels (the epsco council and the conference on the youth guarantee), i am going to visit some of the countries in the implementation phase in the coming recess. mr rapti emphasised that i will go to greece, not only to athens but also to the cities and regions of kavala and thessaloniki. i am also going to visit several regions in spain, as well as portugal and bulgaria. in all these countries it is very important that, in the programming period of the european social fund, youth employment and the implementation of the youth guarantee are seen as a priority by the governments.
thank you very much, commissioner. i am sure that you are one of the commissioners who does not come here with a prepared closing speech, but who addresses every colleague. but in general, i would be very grateful if it were also noted that we have timetables here, that i am dealing with individual colleagues here, that every minute of speaking time is being fought and we have many colleagues who would also like to say something. the commission cannot then speak for twice as long as it is supposed to.
president-in-office of the council. - mr president, honourable members, i am grateful for this fruitful debate, and i think many of you have rightly underlined the urgency and the determination that we have to show in addressing this problem. i would also like to thank commissioner andor for the dynamism with which he is pushing his initiatives. but let me also remind this house that the scope of eu-level action is relatively limited and that initiatives are focused mainly on coordination, fostering new initiatives and supporting financing mechanisms. the council gives guidelines to the member states and strongly encourages them to take measures to tackle youth unemployment, and in addition the social partners have a crucial role in the set-up of new opportunities for young job-seekers. we never pretended that the youth initiative or the youth guarantee could be the solution on their own; the youth initiative is seed money to help spur national initiatives. for the council, i can assure you that the greek presidency will make every effort to contribute to reinforcing eu policies in this area, and i am sure that future presidencies will continue to ensure that appropriate emphasis is placed on addressing this challenge. the issue of unemployment and especially youth unemployment will certainly be at the heart of the electoral campaign for the european elections, and most of you, from whatever political background, will have to devote a lot of effort to contributing to this difficult debate. let me conclude by referring to what i said in my first intervention: employment policy alone cannot reverse the negative trend. much more needs to be done, and contributions from other policy areas are needed.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on eu-switzerland relations (2014/2596 ((rsp)). i would point out to members that, following a decision by the conference of presidents, there is no catch-the-eye procedure in this debate and no blue cards will be accepted.
president-in-office of the council. - mr[nbsp ] president, the outcome of the swiss referendum on 9[nbsp ]february 2014 on the initiative ‘against mass immigration’ has created a new situation. following three popular votes in switzerland in the past 20 years, in which the swiss people approved free movement of persons with the eu and its respective member states, the outcome of this latest referendum was not favourable to free movement. on this occasion, the swiss people decided by a very small majority to change their constitution and re-introduce, within three years of the date of the referendum, quotas for residence and work permits for foreigners, including eu nationals. after the adoption of the review, future cross-border workers, employed and self-employed persons, as well as their families, will be affected by these measures. furthermore, the new article of the swiss constitution prohibits the conclusion of new agreements and obliges the government to renegotiate international agreements which would be, or are, contrary to the new provisions. the new provisions are clearly contrary to the eu-switzerland agreement of 2002 on the free movement of persons. in order to comply with the new article of its constitution, switzerland will have to ask for a renegotiation of this agreement to allow for the reintroduction of quotas. for us – for the european union – the free movement of persons is one of the four pillars underlying the internal market. these four freedoms are indivisible. switzerland has, over the past 20[nbsp ]years, sought to participate in an increasing number of areas of the eu’s internal market and has expressed the wish to open negotiations in further areas. in the light of this process, switzerland cannot expect the eu simply to accommodate its vote against the free movement of persons. there are further complications. the agreement on the free movement of persons is linked, through a ‘guillotine clause’, with six other important agreements with switzerland, covering, inter[nbsp ]alia, land transport, air transport, trade in agricultural products and public procurement. if the agreement on the free movement of persons were to be terminated, the full package would fall. in addition, the agreement is indirectly linked to the association of switzerland with the schengen and dublin acquis, and this issue would also have to be re-examined if the free movement of persons were restricted. there is an additional issue in that the protocol extending the agreement on the free movement of persons to croatia has not yet been signed, and it is difficult to see how switzerland could sign it in the light of the referendum. while no official notification on the issue has yet been received from the swiss government, there are indications that the signing of the protocol can no longer be envisaged. the eu cannot accept discrimination between its member states and will make every effort to avoid such a situation. the eu has linked switzerland’s participation in the union’s erasmus+ and horizon[nbsp ]2020 programmes to the participation of croatia in the agreement on the free movement of persons. in the light of the referendum, and pending official notification by switzerland regarding the signing of the protocol, the commission has cancelled the next rounds of negotiations. as members are aware, the eu has sought since 2008 to put its overall relations with switzerland on a new footing. the eu considers that the highly complex system of more than 120 sector-based agreements with switzerland has reached its limits and needs, at least, to be complemented by an institutional framework. this parliament has supported that approach. in your resolution of 24[nbsp ]may 2012, you called for progress on finding solutions to pending institutional issues. in november 2013, following several years of exploratory talks, the commission submitted to the council a draft negotiating mandate on an institutional framework governing eu-switzerland relations, which was agreed at technical level. the council is now considering how to take that mandate forward so soon after the swiss referendum. the council will closely follow further work in switzerland regarding the implementation of the outcome of the referendum. switzerland has informed us that it will submit an implementation plan, as a follow-up to the referendum, by june and will enact corresponding legislation by the end of the year. we will need time to examine the swiss plans to implement the referendum, and to reflect on further steps on our side. let me conclude by summarising the situation. while we respect the decision taken by the swiss people, our relations with switzerland have been significantly tested by the outcome of the referendum of 9[nbsp ]february. we welcome the fact that switzerland has confirmed, after the referendum, that it will respect its international obligations under the agreement concluded. the eu continues to attach high importance to its long-standing and close relations with switzerland and stands ready to seek solutions to the current difficult situation. this will take time. however, we have to respect our own principles and we cannot encourage a pick-and-choose approach to european integration. the free movement of persons and workers must be defended as one of the european union’s fundamental values.
member of the commission. - mr president, let me also say a few words on recent developments following the swiss referendum held on 9[nbsp ]february. as you know, the free movement agreement between the eu and switzerland confers on eu citizens and their family members a right to move to switzerland, to reside there and carry out an economic activity as an employed or self-employed person – and of course the corresponding right applies to swiss nationals in the eu. around 450[nbsp ]000 swiss citizens exercise their right to live and work in the european union, nearly 1.2[nbsp ]million eu citizens live in switzerland and more than 250[nbsp ]000 cross-border commuters arrive from the eu in switzerland on a daily basis. switzerland is deeply interconnected with its neighbours in terms of infrastructure, culture and family links. the eu and switzerland are bound by dozens of bilateral agreements which give switzerland privileged access to the internal market and promote exchanges, both commercial and personal, with the eu. all of these were concluded based on mutual trust, interest and reciprocity. however, the popular vote of 9[nbsp ]february now calls the freedom of movement of persons into question. the swiss authorities told the commission that they need time to reflect on how this could be implemented. the swiss federal council has up to three years to implement the vote, so there is no immediate massive crisis. in the meantime, and i want to be very clear on this, both sides must continue to fulfil all their obligations under the existing agreements – ʻpacta sunt servanda’, as they say in latin. a deal is a deal, and selective implementation or even cherry-picking is not an option. the commission stands ready to listen to the swiss proposals which are now being considered and which we have not yet seen. the ball is in their court. our margin of manoeuvre, however, is extremely limited. this core principle of the free movement of persons is a cornerstone of our relationship. it is a fundamental right. it is not simply ‘negotiable’, as some tend to believe. it is very difficult to imagine how immigration quotas and national preference could be made compatible with the agreement on the full free movement of persons we have with switzerland. quotas are contrary to the principle of free movement and the principle of free movement is not only an essential part of the internal market, which cannot be decoupled from the other freedoms, but is also at the heart of our overall relations with switzerland. a package is a package! one cannot have one’s cake and eat it at the same time. there are, however, some direct consequences of the amendment to the swiss constitution introduced by the vote. following this constitutional change, the swiss federal council has informed us that it is still evaluating whether it is in a position to sign the – already negotiated and initialled – protocol extending the free movement of persons’ agreement to croatia. the commission has been crystal clear that we expect this extension as planned and that we cannot accept differences in the treatment of our member states in this crucial field. the swiss government have indicated to us that they will have concluded their internal reflections on the protocol by early april. we need to know this fast. precisely to avoid such discrimination, the council’s negotiating directives for swiss association and participation in horizon 2020 and erasmus+ clearly link these related agreements to the croatia protocol. negotiations of these agreements will not go ahead therefore until switzerland formally concludes the protocol, black on white. in the absence of an international agreement on determining the conditions for switzerland’s association in horizon 2020, switzerland will not participate in this programme as an associated country. this means that for 2014, calls for proposals for the participation of swiss entities will be in accordance with horizon 2020 provisions governing the participation of third-country entities. (mr borghezio interrupted mr andor waving a swiss flag)
i would like to thank mr borghezio. i'm ordering you to leave the courtroom. (mr borghezio waves a swiss flag in front of mr andor) mr borghezio, please leave the chamber. (mr borghezio is being escorted by attendants from the hall.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i call you to order for the use of unparliamentary language. the word "retard" and the word "idiot" should not be part of the conversation.
member of the commission. - mr[nbsp ]president, as many honourable members have said in this discussion, free movement of workers and the right to supply services freely between the european union and switzerland have existed for a long time – since 2002 – and to clear mutual benefit. our relations with switzerland are long-standing, close and strong. switzerland is at the heart of europe, shares the same values as the rest of europe and faces the same global challenges, so its future clearly lies in europe. it is now up to switzerland to react to the consequences of the referendum, but we will certainly work together with the swiss government in order to put our relations on a new footing, acceptable to both sides.
president-in-office of the council. - mr president, honourable members, as was just said by the commission, we have long-standing relations with switzerland which are very close and strong. it is one of our major trading partners and our economies are closely interlinked. but one has to repeat that the free movement of persons is one of the four basic freedoms and an essential cornerstone of the internal market, and it should be clear that there can be no pick-and-choose approach as regards freedoms. they come as part of a package and should be upheld by all member states and all partners. we fully respect the decision taken by the swiss people, but we also expect switzerland to respect its obligations under international agreements. let me also refer to an important issue to which the council is very attentive, which is the recent attacks and negative press coverage of free movement of persons which has been fuelled by the result of the vote in switzerland. we believe that generalisations and stories about benefit tourism or fraudsters are very dangerous to the public perception, especially in the light of rising populism. as politicians, we have a duty to avoid giving fuel to populist xenophobic tendencies. public perception is directly linked to political statements. allegations should be based on facts and figures and not on perceptions and opinions.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
i give the floor to mr gollnisch for a personal remark pursuant to rule 151 (1). i would like to point out, however, that you are not allowed to speak on the subject of the debate, but only on the remarks made about you.
i would like to thank you very much, mr gollnisch. we have noted your statement. i would point out that i called mr cohn-bendit to account for these words. i would also point out that i expelled mr borghezio from the chamber during the debate and that he is therefore excluded from the rest of the sitting today. both measures were subject to further action under rule 152 (6) of the rules of procedure.
mr campbell bannerman, we shall not continue the debate on a point of order.
thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. i would like to welcome you, mr president of the czech republic, mr president zeman, to the european parliament. it is a great honor to welcome you to our home today. you have taken up your duties with the aim of strengthening the european vocation of the czech republic and helping to bring the czech republic back to the centre of european politics. i think you deserve a lot of credit for that. we look forward to hearing your speech. mr president, you have the floor.
i don't know if you could hear that over the microphone. he said he spoke english to save us the cost of interpretation. mr president, i should like to thank you very much. i gotta tell you, from up here, you got a good view. i've rarely heard a guest speak that had such a diverse message, but it had something for all parts of this house, so to speak. thank you very much for your wonderful speech and we wish you every success in your ambitions in the czech republic! we need your land. this is one of the important countries in the european union, because the czech republic is a critical country, but as we know with you as president a pro-european country. whether czech beer is the best will be the subject of a wide-ranging debate in the european parliament. thank you very much, mr president. (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to go. i have two brief remarks to make. firstly, in my group's list of votes, the fifth vote is marked 'plus'. the text is minus. so she's wrong on the voting list. secondly, as rapporteur, i ask that the final vote on the legislative resolution be suspended so that we can begin the trilogue after the opinion of the plenary.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i need to know about this voting list. i don't understand what you're saying. the first item to be voted on is the text as a whole, which is the compromise text, if i am not mistaken, and then the split votes. but they would fall if this compromise text were to pass. can someone please explain to me how this is supposed to work?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think we have taken some decisions today on completing the internal market in the field of european railways. if we want the internal market, if we say yes to the european internal market, we must of course also say yes to a common transport area for railways. while it is easy to travel by car from helsinki to madrid or from portugal to warsaw, it is not so easy to travel by rail. i think it is very commendable that the european parliament has taken the initiative here today and that, on the whole, i think we have found a good and viable compromise which makes me a little more optimistic about the future than i was yesterday. i have therefore been able to vote in favour of all six reports before us today.
in the case of the european parliament, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. i am very pleased with the benefits of ecall in terms of accident rescue. however, each driver should be able to decide for himself whether or not to use this new and useful technology. the consumer's freedom of choice is central to me as a liberal: you must be able to decide for yourself whether you want to use ecall or not. the ecall signal could be used to create a motion profile of the vehicle. from a liberal point of view, this is a massive invasion of privacy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament's right of initiative is respected.
in the case of the fdp, the report by mrs sehnalová on the introduction of the automated emergency call ecall was abstained from. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european emergency numbering system. every motorist should take advantage of this new and useful technology if he or she so wishes. but this is crucial for liberals: you have to be able to decide for yourself whether you want to use ecall or not. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote in the council of ministers, and that the council should be given the right to vote in the european parliament. from a liberal point of view, this is an infringement of privacy, and we consider the data protection aspect to be so important that we abstained from the final vote.
in writing. - the fdp abstained from voting on the sehnalová report on the introduction of the automatic emergency call e-call. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the workers is not compromised. every motorist should take advantage of this new and useful technology if he or she so wishes. but this is crucial for liberals: you have to be able to decide for yourself whether you want to use e-call or not. the e-call signal would enable the movement profiles of the vehicle to be created, even without the driver's consent, after the consumer's choice was rejected by the conservative and social democrat majority in parliament. from a liberal point of view, this is an infringement of privacy, and we consider the data protection aspect to be so important that we abstained from the final vote.
in the case of the report by mrs sehnalová, i abstained on the introduction of the automated ecall system. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european emergency numbering system. every motorist should take advantage of this new and useful technology if he or she so wishes. but this is crucial for liberals: you have to be able to decide for yourself whether you want to use ecall or not. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote in the council of ministers, and that the council should be given the right to vote in the european parliament. from a liberal point of view, this is an invasion of privacy. the data protection aspect is therefore of such importance to me that i abstained in the final vote.
in the case of the commission, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a directive. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the safety of the road transport sector. every motorist should take advantage of this new and useful technology if he or she so wishes. but this is crucial for liberals: you have to be able to decide for yourself whether you want to use ecall or not. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote in the council of ministers, and that the council should be given the right to vote in the european parliament. from a liberal point of view, this is an infringement of privacy, and that is why the data protection aspect is so important to us that i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the third eu action programme 'health for growth' (2014-2020) places a greater emphasis on the link between economic growth and population health than in previous programmes. it is in line with the europe 2020 objectives. that's good. i am particularly pleased that the application procedure is being simplified and that the combined use of funds with the eu structural funds is being improved. this was a core demand of the csu and we have enforced it! research funding must be a cornerstone of european health policy. the health programme is designed to support and complement the work of member states in order to achieve the following four objectives: - developing innovative and sustainable health systems; - increasing access to better and safer health care; - promoting health and disease prevention; - protecting against cross-border health threats - including the eu portal on rare diseases (www.orpha.net), which provides a reference database on rare diseases that is a world-leading example. the specific objectives of the health programme include improving cancer prevention and treatment. as rapporteur for the 2012 european year for active ageing, i welcome the fact that a key focus of the programme is on demographic development and an ageing society and that it focuses on age-related diseases.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. in recent days, the question has been asked europeans again and again: what does ukraine need from the european union now? i think it must not be forgotten that the ukrainians are the first to continue to need our compassion. the time for mourning has not yet come. the families, friends, comrades in the maidan of those who died still do not fully understand what really happened last week, when a corrupt regime did not shy away from the last resort of violence. take your time, mourn with the ukrainians! perhaps it will help to do consistently what the ukrainians expect of us in the future. i am, however, one of those who are extremely grateful for the courage shown by the people of euro-maidan last week. even when they were shot at and killed, they were prepared to die for european values, for global values, for the rule of law. with this incredible courage, you have given the european union a new chance to prove itself worthy of this movement. and the question of whether we can do better this time than in 2004 is not yet settled for me. i believe that we must give back what these people have now invested in european values. and i think that the first thing we have to make clear to russia now is that it is really not just empty words when we say that the right to decide the path of ukraine is with the ukrainians. i think what really matters is that the europeans start speaking a common language with moscow and president putin. and i think what is important now is that we do not think again that we are dependent on russia and the gas, but that we become aware that these dependencies are really mutual, and that we must not be blackmailed, as has been tried and as is still being tried meanwhile with military pressure on ukraine. a confident european union must stand up for ukraine's right to self-determination vis-à-vis russia. i think we need to get some money into our hands. let 's be honest . the bankruptcy must be averted, otherwise all that has been discussed will be of no use at all. if we don't get some visa relief soon, we'll embarrass ourselves very quickly. the association agreement, it must be prepared quickly and signed quickly. but beyond that, my dear colleagues, who have rediscovered ukraine in recent weeks, ukraine needs our friendship, it needs our commitment. the tasks that now lie before this country, that lie before politicians in the east and the west, the reform of the judiciary for example, as a really existential task in this situation, this is not something that you do so en passant. in 2004, the european union has failed utterly. she left the country to herself. this can't happen again! and besides money, ukraine needs our assistance so that the country does not slip back into the pattern of revenge instead of justice, of retaliation instead of a new beginning. we have a lot of work to do. ukraine is a wonderful country. we are also dependent on security, stability and freedom in this country. so, ladies and gentlemen, this time it's on. i don't think we're going to get another chance! (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the change of power in kiev, which we have been demanding and wishing for, seems to have been accomplished. but the social conflict that has torn ukraine apart for years is far from resolved. the eu, mr füle, mr steinmeier, and we as the european parliament now have to deliver and measure ourselves against the reality and the hopes of ordinary people. the ukrainian economy has not yet recovered from the imf's latest shock therapy. large parts of the population are bed-ridden, unemployment rates are over 10%, and the minimum wage in ukraine is below 2 euros per hour. since national independence, the country has been in the political stranglehold of competing sometimes pro-western, sometimes pro-russian cliques, who, through a system of corruption, alternately share the country's wealth with the same oligarchs. i therefore see the following requirements. firstly, the political leaders in kiev today have to put forward clear concepts of how they intend to resolve the crisis in the interests of the citizens. the political one, with a comprehensive constitutional reform, with fair and free elections, and with an immediate renewal of the entire democratic system, including all political forces. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. on one tank, on the kerchatick, it read: yanukovych and deputies, give us back our wages! secondly, it is clear that this will not be possible without external financial support in view of the imminent bankruptcy of the state. this assistance should be provided jointly by the eu, the russian federation and the imf. and in this context, we as the eu must make clear what the european perspective is for ukraine. this aid must also be subject to conditions. it is necessary to ensure and make transparent that no further funds - legal or illegal - are going into the pockets of the oligarchs and their political mouthpieces.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we must look with admiration at the people in ukraine, especially those who have come to the maidan in the hundreds of thousands over the months. many of our colleagues were there in various ways. you have seen all this and you have seen the enormous burden of the people who, after president yanukovych's refusal to sign the association agreement, have risen up because they want to go to europe, and this is increasingly the case despite the various waves of violence emanating from the state authorities. the people have also increasingly put the question of the rule of law, the avoidance of arbitrariness, freedom in the foreground. that is why the european values of the rule of law and democracy are of crucial importance. if those responsible are held to account, they should be held to account in accordance with these principles of the rule of law a new ukraine is emerging . this is in the context of the international community. these opposition leaders of the maidan also showed tremendous courage when they signed this agreement, for example, which was one of the reasons, along with the sanctions, along with the violence, along with the performance of the maidan and other reasons, that the violence ended and the implosion of this regime suddenly happened in hours. the rada is legitimate, it is the only stable organisation there that should not be dissolved immediately. we need these institutions until the presidential elections have taken place, under a genuine electoral system. we need to provide financial assistance very quickly. and the european parliament, like the commissioner, is prepared to do so, if necessary, also in the framework of a fast track procedure. this historic opportunity must not be lost and this country must not be forced into bankruptcy! and russia can also show its responsibility. but we also need to ensure that the unity of the country is preserved and minorities are protected. it must be clear that the russian language is protected. there can be no reason, no alibi. for this reason, it must also be clear that we declare that the association agreement is not a weakening of russia's economic interests, but that it is in the common interest to conduct free trade in a free trade area with ukraine on the one hand and the european union on the other, and that free trade and at the same time a stable ukraine are in the russian interest. i think we should make this clear, in conjunction with a european perspective for ukraine - a european perspective that also includes the use of article 49. there may be some controversy about the terms, but it says "membership". that's not the issue today. there is a long way to go and the ukrainian government must also show a willingness to reform so that the financial aid can start, in order to set in motion a financially secure, economically strong, politically stable ukraine and gradually take the path that this european country has earned! (the speaker agrees to answer two questions under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. mr. stoyanov, you should look at the law. it says that russian is not the second state language. but we also make it clear in this resolution that the minority languages must also be used in ukraine according to the rules of the council of europe. that is the position of those responsible in ukraine. please don't invent new stories that will lead to alibis. a new government is in office, fighting for freedom and the rule of law against a murderous regime. and please don't bring up arguments like that now!
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. - mr president, i have to say that i am very pleased. a delegation from the european parliament, including mr salafranca sánchez-neyra, mrs harms and mrs gomes, met representatives of the rada, the incoming government, the likely head of government and the president-in-office last weekend until noon on monday. we shall continue these discussions and you are certainly welcome to come to the house if that is possible. we will have these conversations, and we have always had conversations with everyone. that is why we are talking about an inclusive process, and that is why i have to say that we want to contribute to the unity of the country to the extent that we are asked to do so. we can only make one offer. that is why there is broad agreement in this house.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the demonstrations on the euro-maidan have been very impressive and self-sacrificing in their fight to win the association agreement with the european union and thus a european perspective for the future. they have - and this is something that must be clearly seen - overthrown an autocratic, corrupt kleptocratic system on their own, and above all they have prevented the worst. we know that a brutal and cold-blooded suppression of this popular uprising was planned. the papers are in. i believe that those responsible for this planned mass murder must now be held accountable. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. but it's not the cultural divide in the country that's the problem, it's the social divide, that we have an exorbitant wealth of oligarchs on one side and a people that are desperately poor on the other. something has to happen here. we must first of all involve those who have been filling their pockets in ukraine in the financing of ukraine. i want to be very clear: we must support ukraine in building democracy and the rule of law. not only free trade, but freedom of travel is the order of the day. however, the repeal of the language law was a mistake, as president putin is frantically looking for opportunities to intervene in ukraine. if he doesn't get the whole country, he'll at least want to annex crimea. he's put his army on alert. and when he says, "we are one people", it doesn't sound like the familiar call for reunification, but more like a neo-imperial claim to territory.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to put the question for mr van der stoep to mr saryusz-wolski. how do you assess president putin's troop mobilization and the situation in crimea? i would also like to say that i very much support the initiative with a european perspective. this is important and right. but my question is about the troops and crimea.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the disaster of iraq began 35 years ago. july, 35 years ago, saddam hussein took power. it has continued the disastrous western intervention and failed policy since then. now we have to get the change of pace. this change can only be achieved through a wisely moderated policy in which we take part, a policy of dialogue and reconciliation between the shiites, the sunnis and the kurds, the three major ethnic groups, but above all also as a touchstone through the protection of the small, threatened ethnic groups, which are mainly the christians, or also the turkmens. i want to make it very clear that we as the eu should develop our strengths here. it's not military, as we know. but it is in building democracy, it is in being able to send in federalist experts, it is in being able to participate very intensively in building the rule of law, the judicial system, the police apparatus. we have enormous tasks here. above all, we need protected areas in the nineveh area and elsewhere to help the threatened and persecuted christians here i expressly support the request of esther de lange to survive... (the president withdrew the floor) (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. there is a lot to be done here, especially between shiites and sunnis. because for a long time the sunnis dominated, today the shiites dominate, with wounds on both sides. and what's more important is that we have to prevent outside powers like iran or certain forces in saudi arabia from interfering and taking advantage of a vacuum that we've helped create.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - mr[nbsp ]president, remotely piloted aircrafts or rpas – which is the term we usually apply to drones – are highly topical, not least because of the conclusions of the european council on 19[nbsp ]december 2013. but any debate about armed drones must be set in its wider context. rpa technology is going to develop further. its applications will increase. drones clearly have more endurance and are generally more versatile in their use than manned aircraft, which will make their future use on an even larger scale inevitable. the debate on the increasing variety of potential uses has been ongoing for some time, including in the european parliament. rpas do not only have an offensive role; with their broad spectrum of capabilities, they can contribute to various aspects of military and civilian operations. in the military sphere, some rpas are designed to carry out strike missions. far more widely, their reconnaissance and surveillance capabilities are used to support the planning, conduct and evaluation of operations. better surveillance means identifying threats early, and ultimately saving soldiers’ lives. surveillance also means surveying – pipelines and forest fires, for example – and plotting agricultural use or checking the extent of desertification. in addition, private companies are considering the possibility of using drones as part of their distribution services. as the technology evolves, so will the variety of uses, and we are talking about technologies that are evolving rapidly. the eu, as a global economic actor and as an internal market of more than 500[nbsp ]million people constituting around 20% of world gdp, has an interest in carving out a role for itself in relation to this new product and new technology. moreover, the european union is increasingly being asked to play a lead role in crisis-management operations, including ones with a military dimension. the european anti-piracy operation atalanta is a very successful example. the european council conclusions on drones were also framed against the need to improve eu capabilities for common security and defence policy (csdp) missions, including for maritime surveillance as part of the forthcoming eu maritime security strategy. we have to decide if we want to rely on others and to purchase and use their technology and products, or if we make a clear political choice for our own technology. the latter option would satisfy eu needs, including in security terms, and ultimately would be a considerable boost to european defence industries. issues relating to rpas cut across eu and national competences. the european council on 19[nbsp ] december 2013 was the opportunity for some member states to look at what sort of rpa capability they might need, under the auspices of the european defence agency, during the period 2020-2025. the european council also mandated harmonisation work between military and civilian users in relation to air-traffic insertion and airworthiness. the eu needs a policy on air safety and airworthiness, which should incorporate rpas as increasingly important users of airspace. the use of drones has raised some concerns on respect for human rights and international law. their use in countering terrorism has already been raised and questioned by the un special rapporteur on the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. our position is very clear: we have to ensure that any use will be consistent with both european and international law. it is not the technology, but rather its use, that is key. we are debating the topic here today, and while the us is the leader in the production and the use of rpas, many other countries, including israel, china, russia, iran and ecuador, are developing their own national capabilities. the december european council mandated the exploration of an expanding technology. we are beginning to explore how we will satisfy the priorities of the eu, play our role in the world, satisfy our own markets and our own requirements, and reinforce our industrial base. our policy response on all the various aspects of rpa use will evolve as we know better where this work and technological development will lead. we know there are challenges ahead, and many aspects to be considered. i look forward to the debate and to hearing your views.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank you, mr president-in-office, for the statement you have just made. i agree with you on the substance. i am particularly grateful to you for pointing out at the outset that drone technology offers a wide range of applications, particularly in the civil sector but also in the military sector. we in the epp group would have liked to have had a resolution which reflected this wider range of interests. we have not been able to prevail in that respect. we have nevertheless adopted a joint resolution in the spirit of compromise. as i said last year in my report on the european technological and industrial base, it is important to provide and use modern capabilities for jointly decided csdp operations. this requirement explicitly covers drone technology. at the sede meeting on 12 february, general de rousiers, the chairman of the eu military committee, emphasised the military purpose of drones in general. i would also like to express my support for this. because it is negligent to forgo modern technological equipment if it jeopardizes the successful performance of our soldiers' missions. armed drones can also contribute to the successful performance of our soldiers' missions in the context of the rule of law. the eu and its 28 democratic and rule-of-law member states are not in danger of being targeted by eu member states for the illegal use of armed drones. but we also make it clear in this resolution that we are of course against fully automated drones. and indeed, it must always be left to humans, not algorithms, to determine whether the framework of international law is respected and whether the legitimate use of weapons is guaranteed. so we are in agreement on this.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am grateful to the commission and the council presidency for their statement. it is high time the eu started to consider the use of armed drones. in november 2013, seven eu countries created a drone club to develop drones together. the european defence agency should support this, as the european council welcomed in december. when we discuss the use of armed drones, we must also consider the practice in the united states. under president obama, the number of drone strikes has increased dramatically. this raises ethical and legal questions once again. drones make it as easy to kill as it is to justify war activities to the public in their own country. countries like pakistan, yemen or somalia are not official war zones. outside of war zones, targeted killing is prohibited. now the us claims it is in a global war on terrorism and drone strikes are part of that global war. i think that's wrong. but even if you assume that, even then, the us drone strikes have resulted in human rights violations. our resolution is about the legal framework for the use of armed drones. we call for: no use of drones by eu member states for extrajudicial and extraterritorial killings; no assistance to other states planning to do so; the immediate and comprehensive integration of armed drones into all relevant european and international export control regimes and a swift decision on a legally binding common eu position on the use of armed drones. and of course we also call for an end to the research, development and procurement of fully automated systems that can kill without human decision-making.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i should like to begin by emphasizing that the majority of this parliament agrees that extrajudicial targeted killings must be rejected and prohibited, that armed drones must be included in international and european disarmament and arms export control regulations and that there must be a ban on the development, production and use of fully autonomous weapons. that's good. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to take action in this area. i am very sorry, however, that the use of combat drones is not rejected in principle in this parliament. drone operations do not prevent terrorist attacks or terrorists, but they promote the de-escalation and pervasiveness of war. drones kill civilians, who are dehumanized to collateral damage. the people are subject to arbitrariness and the constant fear of attack. they are traumatized, they can't go to weddings or funerals or the market. parents don't send their children to school because they're risking their lives. there is no justification for this. terrorism cannot be fought with terrorism, and the principles of the rule of law can only be achieved by means of the rule of law. fighting drones kill civilians, undermine the rule of law and democracy, and massively lower the threshold for violent intervention. but this is also a fact: drones are also a bomb business, and they are also partly financed by eu funds. that's not a community of values. i'm going to push for a ban on combat drones, even if it's not going to be enforced here today. but i hope it is in the near future.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not the european arrest warrant is designed to speed up the transfer of suspects and offenders from one member state to another and bring them to justice. that's good and right! unfortunately, there have been and are problems with the use of this instrument. just one example: a 23-year-old mother was threatened with 10 months' imprisonment when she was to be extradited from the united kingdom to her home country of poland on the basis of the european arrest warrant. her crime: at the age of 17, she was sentenced to ten months probation for possession of a small amount of amphetamines for personal use. she moved to the uk, successfully completed a rehab, found a job, had a son. however, since she had not informed her probation officer of the move, a warrant was issued for her arrest. the child would have gone into foster care, the woman would have probably lost her job. only after months of struggle did the authorities abandon this idea. this case illustrates the massive problems that sometimes, but always, arise from the application of the arrest warrant. trust in the rule of law requires both the identification and prosecution of offenders and full respect for the procedural rights of the accused. we therefore call on the commission to submit a legislative proposal within a year to reform the arrest warrant. just a few points: in each individual case, the seriousness of the infringement and the possibility of a less severe alternative should be carefully considered, for example before issuing the arrest warrant. if a state has substantial grounds for believing that the arrest warrant is contrary to european fundamental rights, it must be able to refuse to execute it. and those affected need effective means of appealing against extradition themselves. the european arrest warrant may not be used for minor offences because of the massive intervention. we need better definitions of criminal offences and the right to a fair trial must be guaranteed. eu-wide minimum standards such as the right to interpretation and translation, to legal aid, to rights education must also be guaranteed in the european arrest warrant. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. and there's a need for improvement in the probation system. we social democrats do not question the instrument of the european arrest warrant. but things can't go on as they are. we therefore fully support the own-initiative report by mrs ludford. the commission must make a legislative proposal to solve the problems. and last sentence member states must also fulfil their obligation to respect fundamental rights, including in the field of criminal law.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
mr[nbsp ]president, this is a technical question. we would like to delete the words ‘dual-track’ in the first sentence.
mr[nbsp ]president, i would suggest including in the amendment the three words ‘and other parties’ in order to react to the current developments.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the thing is, selective justice isn't just about tymoshenko. therefore we would like to add: ending selective justice including the imprisonment of yuliya tymoshenko because it is a broader issue.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is a short correction of the epp voting list, the first vote on our epp voting list: please give us a plus on the first vote. thank you, sir.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i want consumers to be able to benefit fully from the benefits of the internal market - greater choice of products and lower prices - while ensuring a high level of consumer protection. this common right of purchase can also open up markets across borders and create new outlets for smaller companies. in particular, there is currently a great deal of legal uncertainty in the area of crossborder online contracts, as no one knows which national rules apply. this will change with the new regulations!
in writing. - i voted against the report. as a born non-smoker, i believe that there are already enough regulations to protect smokers in public. in addition, there is a great deal of attention to the consequences of smoking. every adult citizen can decide for himself whether he or she wants to continue to indulge in tobacco consumption. "forced happiness" with further prohibitions and laws only promotes the illegality of the act. the paradox is that if tobacco growing and the production of tobacco products remain eligible for aid, new bans will be introduced at the same time. and finally, it is also about jobs that are leaving europe. tobacco products will then find their way into the eu from outside the eu, either legally or illegally.
the explanations of vote are closed.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 1.35 p.m.)
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday, 27 february 2014.
ladies and gentlemen, two months ago, sakharov prize winner razan zaitouneh was kidnapped. i have already pointed this out several times. an armed group abducted the lawyer along with her husband and three other human rights activists. the kidnapping took place in douma, a rebel-held area on the outskirts of damascus. for two months, mrs. zaitouneh and her fellow abductees have been missing. there's been no news of you. on behalf of the european parliament, i call for the immediate release of mrs razan zaitouneh! she received the sakharov prize in 2011. this brave young woman has dedicated her life to the peaceful struggle for democracy and a free syria. for this work, she was threatened by the regime and by rebel groups alike. razan zaitouneh's fate is not an isolated case. countless syrian women have been captured, imprisoned, abducted and brutally tortured since the beginning of the civil war. women of all classes and ages are victims of these war crimes. rape - as we can read about in these days' well-documented reports - is being systematically used as a weapon of war to further disrupt syrian society. the european parliament condemns in the strongest terms these war crimes and crimes against humanity. we have just celebrated international women's day two days ago. we must take up the challenge of this day and ensure that the eu supports organisations and individuals who help women rebuild their lives after such trauma, support women who fight against impunity and, above all, help document these crimes so that they can be prosecuted. i demand once again the release of our sakharov prize winner!
the next item is the debate on the report by mr marian-jean marinescu, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the european investment bank (eib) annual report 2012 (2013/2131(ini)) (a7-0137/2014). i would like to welcome the president of the european investment bank, mr hoyer. welcome to the club, mr hoyer.
president of the european investment bank. - mr[nbsp ]president, it is a great pleasure and honour for me to report to you today on our activities in the past year. this is probably the last opportunity for me to speak in the plenary of the european parliament during this legislative period, so let me take this opportunity to thank parliament for its excellent cooperation and support given to the eu bank during these past years. in particular, allow me to thank the rapporteur, mr marinescu, who just presented his report, for a very thorough and well-balanced report on the activities of the european investment bank, and everyone else involved for the excellent cooperation with the eib’s services. the eu bank is part of a concerted european response to the crisis, and there are signs that this common strategy is bearing fruit. it will be successful only if these fruits are sooner or later – hopefully sooner – visible on the labour markets. thanks to the capital increase of eur[nbsp ]10 billion from the member states, the eib group stepped up its financial support to promote growth and jobs significantly in europe last year. the group, comprising the bank and the european investment fund, provided the economy with strong counter-cyclical support, supporting the real economy with loans amounting to eur[nbsp ]75 billion. within the eu we thereby increased our lending activities by 42[nbsp ]% compared to the year before: 42[nbsp ]% more. for example, we have ensured access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises by making our sme support become our largest policy contribution, amounting to an all-time high of eur[nbsp ]22 billion – eur[nbsp ]21.9 billion to be precise – in 2013. this allowed us, taking into account private investment, to mobilise more than eur[nbsp ]50 billion in support of smes and mid-caps and to support a total of 230[nbsp ]000 smes with 2.8 million people employed across europe in 2013. we also paid special attention to the peripheral countries where we lent considerable volumes to smes and mid-caps. for greece, cyprus, ireland, portugal and spain, we signed new loans worth altogether nearly eur[nbsp ]7 billion. and we did not just extend our lending activities, we also added some new products to our toolbox. as you all know, the problems differ in the member states; thus we reacted with tailor-made and efficient instruments. in greece we signed the first trade finance facility worth eur[nbsp ]500 million. here the eib acts as a safe bridge between leading greek and foreign banks, to the benefit of greek importers and exporters. we have already replicated this facility in cyprus for eur[nbsp ]150 million, and other countries have shown great interest in this new tool. again in greece, we set up the sme guarantee fund. the fund is a joint initiative between the hellenic republic, the commission and the eib. established by using eur[nbsp ]500 million from unabsorbed structural funds for greece, the fund will guarantee eib loans to smes by our partner banks in greece totalling up to eur[nbsp ]1 billion. in portugal we started an innovative portfolio state guarantee covering up to eur[nbsp ]6 billion for new investments. all these instruments enable us to operate in countries where commercial banks and other investors have reduced their activities substantially or have even withdrawn completely. but let me be clear: our business model is based on a well-balanced portfolio across the entire union. this is, of course, of utmost importance for our investors. in this context let me say a few more words on our business model and face some rumours that the eib would be too risk averse and concentrate too much on its aaa rating. as the rapporteur said, or implied, the aaa is not a fetish for us, but preserving good refinancing conditions when generating private capital from the market is vital for our business model. we borrow what we have to lend, and we need to do everything to protect our favourable funding conditions in order to be able to fulfil our mission, as laid down in the treaties, to act counter-cyclically and help particularly those countries which need our help the most and to help with very favourable loan conditions. another area supporting growth and jobs is the europe 2020 project bond initiative (pbi). this initiative, which is a risk-sharing instrument created by the commission and the eu bank, provides an opportunity for reopening capital markets as a source of financing for crucial transport, energy and communications infrastructure projects. in january 2014, together with the commission we presented the pbi interim report to parliamentʼs committee on budgets. furthermore, we are enhancing the activities of the european investment fund to overcome existing financing constraints for smes. it is also a very powerful instrument for addressing market gaps, offering a broad range of equity, guarantee, risk sharing and lending products. the board of the eu bank – the eib is the largest shareholder in the eif – recently decided to strengthen the risk-taking capacity of the fund by extending its mandate and subscribing to the eur[nbsp ]1.5 billion eif capital increase. the participation of the european union in the capital increase of the european investment fund was voted on in parliamentʼs committee on budgets and will be tabled for the april plenary. we are grateful to parliament for understanding the need to deal rapidly with this issue before the end of the legislature. this new capital will increase the fund’s capacity to share risk and provide capital in order to stimulate further sme lending. in addition to the capital increase we will extend the eif’s activity by granting a new mandate. this will make up to eur[nbsp ]4 billion available in support of additional guarantees to be issued by the eif over the next seven years. all in all, these measures should increase our funding capacity and expand our product offer for smes. politically, economically and socially one of the biggest challenges remains the fight against youth unemployment, which the european council considered last year as a priority. in that context we launched a dedicated youth employment programme in july. i am very proud to tell you that the volume initially committed of eur[nbsp ]6 billion for 2013 has been significantly exceeded. in just six months the bank made available loans for almost eur[nbsp ]9.1 billion to tackle youth unemployment. this included projects for infrastructure for secondary education and vocational training, support for student loan schemes, as well as loans to smes and young entrepreneurs in regions where youth unemployment rates exceeded 25[nbsp ]%. given the success of the youth unemployment programme – or youth employment programme, to put it better – we will extend our financial support this year because, as has been said many times but without losing any validity, we cannot afford to lose an entire generation, either economically or socially. i should also mention briefly the eib’s external activities. as you know, roughly 10[nbsp ]% of all lending goes to projects outside the eu, to support the euʼs policies beyond its borders. this is, given our overall size, a considerable amount of money – close to one third the size of world bank lending to public and private sectors. with direct investments supporting the economic and social development of neighbourhood and partner countries, the eib promotes eu interests and supports eu policies. in this context, i would just like to mention the current situation in ukraine, which we can further elaborate on during our discussion. the majority of the bank’s financing operations outside the union are carried out under an eu budget guarantee set out in its external mandates for eib activities in different regions of the world. parliament and the council have just concluded negotiations on the new external lending mandate, and you will vote on the text tomorrow. i would like to thank you wholeheartedly for your support, which was decisive in permitting our lending activities to continue to support eu external policies at similar levels to those of 2007-2013: that is, up to eur[nbsp ]30[nbsp ]billion. in times of scarce budgetary resources, the external lending mandate is very important, given the high leverage of the eu guarantee – up to 25[nbsp ]% – which allows us to do more with less. let me say in conclusion that, in addition to our coherent and consistent approach, i would like to emphasise that we responded to the crisis with more europe, and not less; with more integration and more trade support, and not with nationalisation or protectionism. this is for me a very important message for the upcoming elections for this parliament. thank you very much. the european investment bank reports that we have delivered. (applause)
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, the commission welcomes parliament’s report on the european investment bank and shares the recognition of the important role the eib plays in supporting europe’s recovery from the financial crisis. we particularly welcome the establishment of the growth and employment facility, which was enabled by last year’s eur[nbsp ]10 billion capital increase and will generate eur[nbsp ]60 billion of additional lending over the next three years. the implementation of the capital increase has progressed smoothly, thanks to the significant financial contribution from member states, and we note with satisfaction that the eib fully delivered on the agreed additional lending volumes in 2013. in this context, we also welcome the support of parliament for the launch of the instruments of cosme and horizon 2020, which will be implemented by the eib and eif, and for the joint sme initiative. these initiatives will considerably increase the effectiveness of joint risk-sharing instruments in support of smes and high value-added research and development projects. at the same time, the expansion of risk-sharing instruments funded from the eu budget and from structural funds should be flanked by measures to strengthen the eib’s own internal risk-taking capacity to ensure that satisfactory leverage can be achieved for the eu funds. we share the comments made in parliament’s report in this regard. while we recognise the need to control portfolio risks and the importance of the triple a rating, the eib needs to optimise the value-added of its lending, taking into account country-specific needs. it is critical that the eib deploys the fresh funds from its capital increase, which was financed by eu taxpayers, to high value-added projects across the 28 member states, including vulnerable and programme countries, for which funds are not available from other sources on reasonable terms. there is still more work to be done here, as we note that a significant proportion of eib lending continues to flow to blue chip companies with ready access to commercial loans. this type of business is best left to the private banking sector, as the eib is not needed there. going forward, it will thus be crucial to demonstrate even more that the eib can play a key role in the eu’s efforts to restart growth and job creation, especially in vulnerable and programme countries. all this is not intended to call into question the eib’s business model but to ensure that all efforts are used to ensure that taxpayers’ money is used as effectively as possible. a clear example of successful eu-eib cooperation is the eu project bond initiative, which has launched a debate on the various models for promoting a project bond market in europe. the transactions closed demonstrated the role of the project bonds in attracting investors to large projects with a higher risk profile than they would normally accept. this is largely due to the involvement of the commission and the eib, which proves to be crucially important to investors in terms of project deliverability. the active promotion by the commission and the eib of project bonds for infrastructure financing has supported the development of capital market solutions. the two project bond deals signed show that project bond solutions could deliver value for money compared to bank solutions, effectively enabling governments to deliver more to taxpayers at the same or even lower financing costs. the commission and the eib are currently looking at ways to improve the performance of the scheme and to implement it in a broader range of countries and in greenfield projects. the commission will also look at the financing of smaller infrastructure projects and the potential use of european structural and investment funds to support the development of the project bond market in a variety of infrastructure sectors in europe, including renewable generation and smart grid assets. from 2014 onwards, the project bond initiative will be part of the connecting europe facility, with an initial budget of eur 230 million for 2014-15 and further allocations to be made after 2015, subject to the full independent evaluation of the pilot phase. the european investment fund, which is owned jointly by the eib, the eu and a number of financial shareholders, has been another highly effective tool for supporting the economy in areas not adequately served by the commercial banking sector, including financing for smes and venture capital. this is an area particularly affected by the financial crisis and the fragmentation of the eu’s credit markets. otherwise-identical smes now face different financing conditions, merely based on the member state where they are based, and that is why the european council of december 2013 asked us to further enhance the capacity of the eif through an increase in its capital. we are currently working with the european parliament and the council to complete the legislative process for the capital increase by may. we are grateful for the excellent cooperation with parliament and the council, which makes us confident that we can succeed with this important project within our ambitious timetable and get the first projects going this year. as regards eib external activity, a substantial level of eib involvement in the pre-accession and neighbourhood countries is essential, in line with the eu’s political and strategic priorities. eib investment activity in these regions is of fundamental importance to facilitate the accession process and to bolster eu support to its neighbourhood. they should thus remain at the focus of the eib’s external lending activities. the commission welcomes the recent creation of an eastern neighbourhood committee by the eib, because the bank’s support to the region is needed now more than ever, including in countries such as ukraine. we are satisfied with the progress achieved on the future external lending mandate under the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, and we welcome the very constructive approach of parliament on this important project. the timely conclusion of the legislative process will ensure that the eib operations outside the eu will continue smoothly following the end of the current mandate on 30[nbsp ]june[nbsp ]2014. we are waiting for the input from meps, and i will hand this over to my colleague, whom i replaced tonight. (applause)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer. i'm not going to tell you. i very much appreciated your speech because it struck a critical tone, which mr marinescu also struck in his report. we welcome this debate on the work of the eib. however, the bank's work is still characterised by the opacity of the large figures. i have a lot of questions: the eib programmes to combat youth unemployment are an important thing. but what has the eib actually done and what has it achieved in terms of growth and employment? i would remind you that the commission cannot tell us anything because it says there are no statistics on this, so how can the eib? what if instead of a glossy brochure there were a publication on the added value of eib loans? and then, please, explain to us why the programme countries, the main crisis countries and our main children, account for only 5% of all eib investments. is it given to him who has? the second point is the question of the increase in the capital of the eib. we wonder how the bank can maintain its quality portfolio in an increasingly difficult economic environment. and then it would be interesting to know what percentage of loans the eib has contracted but not paid out. the third question i ask myself is how many loans the eib has actually made to smes which have lost their money from their home banks. these are the companies that are in dire need of the loans. we have great difficulty in actually evaluating the eib's lending because there is no information on final beneficiaries. it would also be important to know how many eib loans actually went to the banks themselves. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. the eib is now far behind in terms of management performance per employee and information on eib infrastructure costs. yes, we're really interested in that. and the fifth point, the question of the eib's compliance with eu law, so what is the state of play with regard to the implementation of crd iv and basel iii? we look forward to the answers to these questions!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the european investment bank is the bank of the eu. it finances the eu's objectives in accordance with its political priorities. the 2012 annual report, which we are discussing today, covers governance, compliance and the control framework. it reports on the strengthening of support for small and medium-sized enterprises, the eib's contribution to the european union's external policies and cooperation with other international financial institutions. finally - and this is new - the consultancy capacity of the public private partnership advisory centre is described. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the eib is thus a key instrument in meeting the challenges of the crisis and in promoting growth and employment. it is of fundamental importance to us that the eib maintains its triple-a rating in order to maintain financial strength. we also want the eib to develop new financial and non-financial instruments which can be used to solve short-term market problems as well as long-term problems of the eu economy in the context of the crisis. finally, we welcome the fact that the eib has suspended its activities in ukraine for the time being in the light of the violence on the maidan. this was a strong signal that the european institutions were showing responsibility.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 11 march 2014, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr sergio paolo francesco silvestris, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the production and placing on the market of plant reproductive material (legislation on plant reproductive material) (com (2013) 0262[nbsp ]-[nbsp ]c7-0121/2013[nbsp ]-[nbsp ]2013/0137[cod]) (a7-0112/2014).
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner borg, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to thank sergio silvestris, the rapporteur, for what he has put forward. it has improved the commission's proposal. but there is a concern, commissioner borg, that we as a parliament cannot exert enough influence here with the new delegated acts. we are in the run-up to the elections, this parliament has only a few weeks left, and perhaps you, commissioner, are more affected by the negative experience we as a parliament have had with the directorate-general for agriculture and rural development in the delegated acts on the agricultural reform. i am not at all satisfied with what i have heard so far on the delegated acts on the agricultural reform. it is not in line with the political decisions taken in luxembourg, in my view, and that is why we have become so sceptical, commissioner. this is one of the main reasons why the proposal was rejected in the committee on agriculture by 37 votes to 2 and why a rejection was recommended. i think that the commission's proposal - and mrs ayuso has just mentioned it - is too summary. we want administrative simplification, but if things become more complicated than before - and i am thinking of the forestry issue, which is not part of this seed directive - then we are not satisfied. there is no need to act now to bring this matter to a speedy conclusion. the system has largely proved its worth. i think that, with a possible rejection tomorrow, we can give you, commissioner, the chance to discuss the matter calmly after the elections in the new parliamentary term, so that the rights of small and mediumsized businesses, small producers and seed users are reconciled here. i think we can find a reasonable solution here. my group will make a contribution to this.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are dealing with a report which is now being discussed more emotionally than technically. it is true what the commissioner says: it is more about marketing than growing the seed. but we see that the commission's proposal is really very explosive, when you combine 12 directives into one regulation and then also include areas which were not covered by these directives before. we have a need in europe to protect the old varieties and to make them possible, to help small farmers and not to hinder private seed exchange. but on the other hand, we also need a breeding programme in europe, we need protection of intellectual property in this breeding programme, we need the possibility of developing new varieties, because we have high demands in europe that are coming our way. we need more health security for the varieties, we need a higher environmental impact by growing varieties that require less pesticides, we need a yield guarantee, because in the future we have to feed a growing world population. we need to have varieties that are adapted to climate change and we also need new uses, for example for bioenergy use. that means we have positions here that are very far apart. the commission's task was to build bridges in the synthesis of these directives. what we've achieved is that old divisions have been reopened, and that's what's led to this discussion that's no longer factual, but emotional. this is also reflected in the large number of amendments. that is why alde supports a referral back to the council, so that we can have a proper debate on this subject in a quieter period with more time and then, of course, reach a reasonable agreement. because we're not doing ourselves any good in the future by discussing everything emotionally. we need more technical objectivity in politics.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i am rather appalled by what you have said. you claimed that a communication problem was the reason there was so little support for your proposal. no, the proposal is bad! otherwise we would not be in complete agreement in the committee on agriculture, where we rarely agree, on the point of rejecting this proposal. and it has some very serious flaws, this proposal. it is - as mrs kadenbach said - too much geared to the needs of the large corporations, too much geared to a seed production of uniformity and conventional agriculture. they now want to push the field of sustainable organic production and conservation breeding into a niche. he doesn't belong in there. this is the future of agriculture! if we think only of the answers we need to climate change, then there are the reserves that must be exploited and not be crowded into a niche. and there is something else you have not noticed: we have presented a study which clearly shows that there is a concentration in the seed sector in europe too. take note that 95% of the vegetable seed is controlled by just five corporations! you have to acknowledge that somehow. they don't have an answer to the concentration in the seed market, but they also don't have an answer to the fact that we've lost 75 percent of biodiversity in agriculture in the last few decades. where's the answer in this seed right? we really must support the companies that promote this biodiversity! i also find it incredible that the commission is now standing here and saying: we have nothing to change. there are almost 1500 amendments which we have tabled. take note of that. you now have until after the election to put a new proposal on the table. and do not come back with the old proposal, because then the result will be the same, namely that we will reject it together and take the interests of farmers more seriously than you do in this area too!
the commission has already done so. i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr silvestris, who has really worked hard for the epp to get us to work on this report. i have not seen in fifteen years of parliamentary work an entire parliament the political groups returning a report to the commission in this way. i have not yet seen a commissioner tell us that we were not given enough information. i would say that there was no dialogue, otherwise such uncertainties could not have arisen. i can only support this rejection - we were the first to propose it, both myself and mrs köstinger - in order to bring calm to the debate and to make it concrete, and also to be able to get the information from you that we need. you say less red tape. you'd have to tell us where and how. we need regulation in the seed sector urgently. that's not a question at all. no one here has questioned that either. we need clarity, we need legal certainty and security. the companies need it, and the farmers who use the seeds need it. but we don't need a lot of things that we think are in the proposals. and if they're not in there now, they might be coming in through delegated acts, where we're not going to have any way to intervene. this is a particular concern of small and mediumsized businesses and, by the way, of those who produce seeds commercially. they say: 'we are at the limit of what we can do bureaucratically. if no one understands a proposal, then it is good that we reject it, that we talk to each other again and better and that we enter into a dialogue in time ... (the president shall not give the floor to the speaker.)
member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank the members for this frank exchange of views. perhaps it was a bit more than that. my view is that, in spite of the criticism, i think we can agree on three things. first of all, there is an urgent need to update and modernise this legislation, which has been repeatedly amended since the 1960s, in order to introduce a measure of flexibility. there are, of course, different views on this. we think that our proposal does this. practically everyone in this parliament is of a different opinion. i also think that we have to ensure harmonisation and implementation in all the member states, thereby creating a level playing field within the eu market. i take the opinions and concerns which have been expressed by the different political groups tonight very seriously. i believe that we need further discussion on how to improve the current text, as i disagree with some of the views. i agree that others need clarification and therefore, in my opinion, it is a good solution to refer this proposal back to the committee on agriculture and rural development for further fruitful consideration.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 11 march 2014, at 11.00 hours. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item on the agenda is the one-minute statement on important political issues (article 150 of the rules of procedure).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to thank my colleagues, in particular the shadow rapporteurs - mrs lulling, mr sánchez presedo - for their excellent cooperation on this report. we have already worked intensively, in a somewhat different configuration, three years ago, across party lines, on the creation of the european supervisory authorities for financial supervision. it was a long process back then: 26 trilogues with the council, long discussions about how we can equip the european supervisors after the crisis and make them so effective that they can actually lead to effective financial supervision. now, after long, difficult negotiations, the regulators are in office. we've been together for three years. we have commissioned two studies, one on the sectoral supervisors for insurance, banking and markets and the other on macroprudential supervision. the results of these studies were very interesting and very close to what had been found in similar studies by the commission. the supervisory authorities have indeed done a good job, they have fulfilled their mandates in the main, particularly in the area of legislation. but when it comes to other rights that we have given them, the supervisory authorities have often failed to do their job. the question was: what about non-implementation of european law? in many member states, european law was ultimately not enforced. the three supervisory authorities have found virtually no infringements. so is the binding arbitration. it is not that there is no longer a dispute between national regulators. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. the commission has also been very careful to ensure that the commission's proposals are not used as a pretext for a new directive. in other words, the studies have found that we haven't gotten as far as we really wanted to. macroprudential supervision, which is important for systemic risk, also has important shortcomings. in particular, the agency is much smaller than its us counterpart. it has also not been able to work in a truly preventive way, partly because we are still in the midst of the crisis. the commission has already made a number of recommendations in this regard. this includes, in particular, enabling supervisory authorities to take decisions more independently of national supervisory authorities. at the moment, it is still the case that without a decision in the supervisory board of national supervisors at european level, not even a work process can be started. we want to make the european supervisory authorities more independent, so that for the first time supervisors can initiate a process to establish a breach of law at national level. in general, the report contains a whole series of proposals on how we can strengthen the power of the european supervisory authorities. we also propose that access to data be simplified. all european supervisors should have the same data as national authorities and should harmonise their processes so that this entails lower compliance costs for financial firms. and we want to strengthen the financial capacity of the various supervisory authorities in general. now the commission has one year to take up our proposals or to explain why it does not want to do so. i understand that the commission's proposal is coming up shortly. we're anxiously awaiting what's coming for us there. i would be glad if many of our proposals, which we have worked out in broad agreement across the political groups, were to be reflected in your proposal, commissioner.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the epp also wants transparency. we've always stood up for it. but transparency must stop where privacy is at risk. and, lady in the field, you're so much for privacy. in your report you are doing exactly what cashman has been demanding and why he has failed with his report for many years. mr cashman, i am glad to hear that you are leaving parliament. perhaps we can finally move forward in this area. you confuse access to documents with access to the proceedings. and yes, the legislative process is complex. and yes, there is a phase that you shouldn't reveal at every point. because they're trilogies. obviously, madam rapporteur, you have never really negotiated in a trilogue. because if you didn't, you'd know that you'd be opening the lobby door to the public if you were to allow access to documents. they want to downgrade the protection of personal data. you want to disclose competitive data, you want to disclose internal administrative processes. this is simply going too far and putting personal data of employees, administrations and institutions at risk. you have a claim to absolute power. they have not even tried to talk to the epp. on the contrary, you have been dominated by our colleague mr cashman, who has probably written this report. that is why the epp has drawn up its own resolution, which we think is a better way of putting it! (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have been a member of this parliament for 15 years. i've negotiated in the most difficult trilogues on very contentious issues with incredible lobbying. that's why i know exactly what i'm talking about. yes, you accepted the epp amendments tabled by mrs corazza bildt. why would you do that? because this colleague is one of those who shares your opinion, woman in the field. but you have not dealt with the other epp amendments at all. and that's why what i said is right. you have a claim to absolute power. but you didn't eat wisdom with spoons. there is another wisdom. and that is, you should disclose as much as you can, but you can't disclose everything you want to disclose.
member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr wałęsa, for his excellent report on the activities of the committee on petitions in 2013. i would also like to take the opportunity to thank ms mazzoni and the whole committee on petitions for their work. the commission has examined this report with great interest. it provides very interesting information about the activities of the committee. even though the nearly 3[nbsp ]000 petitions that were received last year concerned a wide variety of subjects, the report clearly points to the most topical and sensitive policy areas which formed the subject matter of petitions in 2013. the commission finds that the work of the committee on petitions is of the utmost importance, as it implements the right to petition, which is one of the most fundamental rights of all european citizens. many petitions have been submitted in relation to issues concerning fundamental human rights, the environment, the internal market and the economic and social consequences of the crisis. for instance, petitions have been filed on the rights of children of separated or divorced parents, on the right to legitimately acquire property, and – to mention some others – on the rights of disabled persons and the right of free movement without discrimination on any grounds. the petitions show that the citizens of the eu are conscious of the problems and concerns in a very concrete and tangible way. just by looking at the list of topics, it is very easy to understand why the citizens concerned are keen to get these problems solved. it is, of course, very important that these issues are addressed when the eu has the competence and capacity to act, and the commission has a special role in this context as guardian of the treaties. as you know, the commission contributes to the work on petitions. it finds that it is extremely important to contribute when citizens use this concrete and established way of signalling their concerns. at a time when the so-called ‘citizen disconnect’ is a recurring theme, it is crucial that citizens’ concerns are heard. we hope that petitions can contribute to citizens regaining or consolidating their trust in the eu. many initiatives are being taken at present to reach out to citizens, and we see that they are using the available tools more than ever. the rise in the number of petitions – as has been mentioned in this chamber – is proof of that. there are other examples, like the european citizens’ initiative (eci), on which i will say a few words. on the whole, i think we can be very satisfied with how this new transnational instrument of participatory democracy has been used and implemented so far. i have recently seen the submission of the first two successful ecis: one on the right to water and the petition entitled ‘one of us’. more and more organisers are submitting requests for registration of their initiatives. the positive trends of the first two years clearly suggest that we are witnessing the emergence of what has the potential to become a popular and possibly influential means for our citizens to get directly involved in the work that our institutions carry out. may i say, mr president, that the commission is grateful for the constant support shown by the committee on petitions, and by the european parliament more generally, as regards the implementation of the european citizens’ initiative, which is an important complement to our more traditional representative democratic structures. as with petitions, this is a clear way for citizens who want to engage on eu issues to do so directly with the institutions, and the commission counts on your continuing support. this commission looks forward to continuing and enhancing its fruitful cooperation with parliament in the field of petitions in the coming months. i am confident that the new commission will continue this excellent cooperation with the same commitment.
in writing. the 2013 annual report of the committee on petitions is special in many ways: in this way, it not only reflects on our work and achievements, but also outlines possible new perspectives for the committee's internal work and its external impact. the new web portal, for example, is designed to speed up the process of petitioning in the committee and make our work more transparent once it is online. but we don't just want to make it online. we have been thinking a lot during this term about how we can streamline and improve analogue workflows. this process must be continued. the report also describes the many activities undertaken by the committee on petitions. these range from organising the election of the new european ombudsman, emily o'reilly, to public hearings on issues such as citizenship. the committee on petitions is literally the direct line to our citizens. i am therefore particularly concerned to make this wire more visible to the outside world and more visible to the inside, so that we can continue to ensure that the concerns of the citizens of europe are heard.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in 2009, the european parliament, the european union, passed the pesticide regulation. it called on the commission to present criteria for endocrine substances. the commission has unfortunately put this on the back burner. as rapporteur for the european parliament at the time, i am however appalled at the attempt made by this own-initiative report, which is not legally binding, to call into question the criteria for these endocrine substances. it is not acceptable that an attempt is made to abolish a regulation which has been adopted in a democratic and transparent manner by means of this initiative, which is a mere promotional brochure for the pesticide industry. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i find it very regrettable that there is this own-initiative report, which has no legal basis at all, and that it is being used to try to promote the interests of industry. this is all the more regrettable as the european parliament is sending the wrong signal, especially now that the european elections are just around the corner. we must be concerned with promoting consumer protection and environmental protection. i therefore hope that this own-initiative report will be rejected!
member of the commission. - mr president, thank you very much for giving me the floor. dear paweł, i actually came here to reinforce the messages in your report. i agree with you that a different chapter has been written on ukraine – or is being written. at the same time, i am on your side in saying that the messages which are reflected in your report are important and relevant, and – if i may – i will reinforce some of them and add those that i also consider important. i would like to do so in three parts. the first part i would like to address is the eastern partnership in general. here i would like to make the following points. firstly, it is important that we remind you all that the goal of this special partnership is to try to help our partners to deliver on their own ambitions. ownership of reforms matters. secondly, it is important to remind our partners, and also ourselves from time to time, that the most important thing is to make the best use of all the instruments, of which there are many. your report actually lists them all: from the bilateral to the multilateral dimension, sectoral cooperation, the means of interaction – both formal and informal. this is the kind of unique partnership where we have summits on one side and informal ministerial meetings combined with sectoral cooperation on the other. the third point – and here i also agree with you, because your report has quite rightly stressed this point – is that we need to combine inclusivity with differentiation. this means that we need to make an effort so that all of our partners are engaged, and that we find a framework within the broad eastern partnership for all of them. the last point would be stating the obvious: the eastern partnership is not a straitjacket, and the only non-negotiable issue is that of the values and principles underpinning our partnership. but we also have, among our eastern partners, countries which have committed to much deeper reforms, which have asked for a closer relationship, and which have agreed with our reactions to those calls for a political association and economic integration. i am talking about ukraine, moldova and georgia, and also about an association agreement including a deep and comprehensive free trade area. let me make seven short remarks. at this time, all of us are often ready to look back to the past and to make judgements on what was right and on what went wrong. i think that this element of objectivity, which i also appreciated very much in your report, is important. point number one is that the association agreement – and whenever i say association agreement, i also mean the dcfta – has strengthened the capacity of our partners to make sovereign decisions. i think this should actually be our primary goal. point number two is that it respects the traditional relations which our partners have with their neighbours. i would make the argument that it helps to promote such relations rather than the other way round. point number three is that we offer not only a blueprint for reforms but also a comprehensive and genuine partnership. it is combination of political association and economic integration, and it is accompanied by the rule of law, the fundamental freedoms, and other value-based elements which are so important for any reforms to be fully implemented. point number four is that we are proposing what has already worked before: the eastern partnership and the association agreements are not a laboratory; we are not testing; we are not experimenting. i recall one clear example which you will probably like: poland and ukraine in the 1990s. if i look at the gdp per capita, it was more or less the same, but then poland concluded a free trade agreement of the same type which we offered to our partners. a couple of years after that, poland’s gdp per capita grew by a factor of four. it doubled in the case of poland and halved in the case of ukraine. this is what we offer, and this is important to recall. point number five is that we work not only with authorities but also with others – particularly with civil society – and that this makes reforms more viable. point number six is that when our partners become victims of undue external pressures, we stand firmly on the side of our partners and mobilise all instruments of solidarity if needed. point number seven: let me make the point emphatically that our polices are contributing, in the long run, to the creation of a free trade zone stretching from lisbon to vladivostok. to say the opposite – to say that what we offer is actually a choice between brussels and moscow, between the west and the east – is propaganda. it comes from those who, while ignoring our previous invitation for dialogue on these issues, have imposed military measures on their neighbours. it is ironic that it is this week that we will have the first bilateral group with the russian federation to address what one might call their difficulties with the overall concept, trying to make it clear that they have nothing to fear. but let me end with a point on ukraine. you have said that there are indeed going to be many discussions on this issue this week here in strasbourg. let me just briefly recall what has been underlined by the member states in the past week, namely that we have strongly condemned russia’s unprovoked violation of ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. other steps to destabilise the situation in ukraine would lead to additional and far-reaching consequences for our relations on a broad range of issues, and we hope that things will not reach that stage. we firmly believe that the problem should be solved through dialogue. that brings me to the last point. some of our partners have clearly-defined european aspirations. we have been looking for too long for a way to reflect on this and to respond to it. the last ordinary foreign affairs council that debated ukraine decided that the association agreement was not the final goal of cooperation with ukraine. this is an important development, because it is only within the spirit of article 49 of the lisbon treaty that we will be able to take full advantage of the association agreement. i thank you very much for this debate, and i thank you even more for this important report.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the vote on the omnibus ii directive today marks the beginning of a major, and indeed a better, european insurance regulation. as legislators we cannot and must not focus solely on the banks, although there was certainly a need for more rapid and decisive action in the banking sector. insurance companies are important institutional investors and therefore, of course, a major factor in financial stability. insurance products often cover long-term risks for decades. there is hardly a european citizen who does not have insurance or who does not benefit from it. with the new framework, we can do both. firstly, strong regulation of companies, which strengthens consumer protection throughout europe, and secondly, of course, good solutions for the long-term business model of insurance, which should also benefit the insurance customer. with omnibus-ii and solvency[nbsp ]ii, we are introducing risk-based regulation, which includes not only higher capital requirements, but also stricter requirements for risk management and business organisation, as well as reporting and publication obligations. the protection of policyholders and the stability of financial markets throughout europe are top priorities. among enterprises, those who are active across borders or who want to expand further in europe will also benefit from the unification of the regulatory framework. in the long term, we want to move a little closer to the single market for insurance and insurance products. this also means that the new, demanding rules must not overburden small and medium-sized insurers. as the european parliament, we have successfully fought for proportionality in this area. we have also asked the commission to do so, and above all the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa). small and mediumsized enterprises provide a broader range of services, increase competition and are often at the forefront of regional customer service. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. those who have maintained a sustainable and sound business model in the past should be able to continue to do so under solvency ii. the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has recently launched a new programme for the protection of the environment. insurance companies offer long-term products, such as life insurance, and they also invest for the long term. companies usually hold their assets for a very long time or until maturity. it was therefore important that omnibus[nbsp ]ii found a way to avoid having to capture short-term market fluctuations directly in full. in addition, there will be a transitional provision for current insurance contracts to address the transition to the new regulatory framework and the current extreme low-interest phase. the aim is to continue the successful and sustainable pension provision that has been in place for decades. if the european central bank's monetary policy can keep interest rates low for the banking sector, which is in crisis, then it must not be the case that policyholders on the other end of the spectrum have to pay the price. the package of measures on long-term guarantees is therefore an essential part of omnibus[nbsp ]ii. as the european parliament, we have initiated an impact assessment which has ensured the involvement of the european supervisory authority eiopa, the commission and market participants. after many delays - after 13 years of negotiations - we have created a good starting point. as i said at the beginning, let us now take the initiative in the interests of the european insurance sector and the european consumer.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the introduction of the solvency ii risk-based insurance regulation came at a difficult time, namely the financial crisis, and also triggered a long period of low interest rates. the result is that the requirements that would have been risk-based were not appropriate at the time, and the insurance industry has been pushing hard for changes to this regime, with the support of their respective national governments. in this respect, there was no anti-crisis policy, unlike in the banking sector, where special measures were taken for counter-performance, but instead enormous pressure was exerted to reduce the equity capital base of the insurance industry and also the capital investments to be withheld, in the order of eventually 200 billion euros. it's almost ghostly that we're having these discussions about these amounts here in front of practically empty halls. the result is that the originally more consumer-friendly positions of the parliament, which were already a major step forward for the insurance industry, have been weakened further under pressure from the member states. the result is that we now have insurance regulation that is much less safe, that is less consumer-friendly, and that manipulates the calculation bases in a one-sided and insurance-mathematical way that is questionable. we will therefore not agree to this deal, but will rather be critical of which companies use these instruments and which do not.
member of the commission. - mr president, this is indeed an important piece of legislation, as mr cofferati said. it affects everyone, and particularly the working class, workers and lower-income groups, who depend on insurance much more than anyone else. so i appreciate the consensus there is in this assembly and the agreement which was reached in the trilogue process, and i look forward to the swift adoption of this legislation. mr sosa wagner said it should have been a shorter process, and i agree. most commissioners, when drawing up legislative proposals, would prefer to have a shorter process, but we must remember that the eu is not a federation but an organisation of sovereign states. these are laws which will apply to 500[nbsp ]million people, so it is understandable that a laborious process is needed to pass anything from two legislators and, in some cases and in the case of the council, with a qualified majority. i take note of the question which mr cofferati and others mentioned on the implementation of this legislation. d-day will be 1[nbsp ]january[nbsp ]2016 but, of course, implementation will require implementing rules and, in particular, delegated acts, and we are bound to bear in mind also the proportionality principle, which was mentioned by some meps. i can assure this assembly that, in the delegated acts, not only will the committee on economic affairs be involved in preparatory meetings with member states, but we shall also keep close contact with this assembly because, after all, delegated acts are so important in this legislation that we will need the widest possible consensus on the implementing rules themselves. most of the comments regarding this legislation were positive; i know that the proof of the pudding is in the eating, as they say, and that things are not over yet, but at least this will be a first important step, which will be followed by the implementing legislation, to beef out the legislation itself.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to go. omnibus ii was once intended as a technical directive, but as a result of the financial crisis - some colleagues have mentioned this - the question has arisen of the substantial changes in content. the solutions that have been found are, i believe, far-reaching and necessary, but we must also keep in mind where we are coming from. in the current regulatory environment, insurance companies calculate their provisions conservatively, but always at a flat rate. the solvency ii programme is now introducing risk-based capital calculation. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment. despite all the impact studies and despite the preparations already under way in the insurance companies, the changeover will be very costly and time-intensive for the companies and will also require a significant strengthening of the capital base. this is certainly not a small step in the current economic environment and with long-term commitments. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. omnibus ii, i am sure, is the right and necessary step to do that. and with regard to the commission, i would like to stress that the next step is to finalise the delegated acts. as the european parliament, we will certainly ensure that the requirements of the directive are met. this includes the principle of proportionality, which must be specified in the legal acts. the commission has already taken the initiative in the area of the internal market, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the amendments tabled by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy. it is also important to ensure that long-term measures are effective and, above all, stable. i would therefore like to appeal to you once again, commissioner, to complete the procedure for the delegated acts in a targeted manner and to involve the european parliament in a constructive way. because ultimately we all want to achieve the implementation of solvency ii in 2016. finally, i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs and, above all, the secretariat of the committee for their cooperation over many years, which has been good, open and above all trusting.
deputising for the rapporteur mojca kleva kekuš. - mr[nbsp ]president, our colleague, mojca kleva kekuš, who is the co-rapporteur on this file, became a mother two months ago so she cannot be here with us today. i wish her and her little daughter all the best. she did a lot of good work on this dossier, so allow me now to present her words and ideas. a year ago, with the change in international standards, parliament received a package of commission proposals for updating and improving european legislation on combating money laundering more effectively. at a time when technology and the means available to criminals are constantly evolving, it is crucial that our legislation should keep pace with the changing realities. we now have before us an updated regulation, which will enhance the transparency of fund transfers of all types: domestic and cross-border. the regulation lays down rules for our banks and other payment-service providers regarding information on payers and payees which they need to collect and transfer throughout the entire payment chain. this update will make it easier for law enforcement authorities to track funds transferred by criminals and terrorists. the new rules will help to identify not only the payers but also the receivers of laundered money. the new regulation focuses more closely on the effectiveness of regimes to counter money laundering and terrorist financing, and on ensuring greater clarity and consistency of rules across the member states. it is also broader in scope, with a view to addressing new threats. the rapporteur, ms[nbsp ]kleva kekuš, is also pleased that, thanks to parliament’s involvement, the regulation is now more effective in ensuring compliance with european data-protection requirements, guaranteeing that all the safeguards protecting individual rights in relation to personal data will actually be applied. what remains crucial in making the fight against money laundering effective, however, is the work on enforcement and implementation of the new rules. to combat this problem effectively we need two things at the same time: a coordinated response from law enforcement bodies in the member states and a standard procedure for financial institutions and payment-service providers. the new rules now centre on a risk-based approach, which should strengthen the capabilities and roles of payment-service providers in identifying transfers that smell fishy. to conclude, the danger of money laundering is also closely linked with the problems of tax evasion and tax havens. this parliament has, on numerous occasions, called for concrete and effective action to eliminate the scandalous tax gap. the improvement of these rules on fund transfers will serve as one small piece of the puzzle. the rapporteur, ms[nbsp ]kleva kekuš, believes that, thanks to good cooperation and hard work on the part of the other co-rapporteur and all the shadows, the text in front of us is something that parliament can be proud of. she thanks everyone for their contribution.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not the amount of money laundering worldwide is estimated at eur 1.6 trillion each year. this is more than the eu budget for seven years! we in the eu are called upon to take drastic action both in the fight against money laundering and in all the accompanying mechanisms designed to disguise money transfers. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very important one. however, we believe that this alone is not enough. the key to the legislation we are discussing today is the identification of the real beneficiaries behind the interlocking, opaque corporate structures or letterbox companies in the fight against money laundering. sometimes, when you look at companies today, you have to take them apart like a matrioshka doll to get a little bit closer to the answer to who owns a company. we must put a stop to this in the future. we call for public registers of companies with information on the real beneficial owners of companies, trusts and foundations, to cut off criminals' escape route into anonymity. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the financial interests of the union. that is why we social democrats want to see an eu-wide networking of public registers. it would make the work of investigators when they have to investigate matters beyond the border much easier if they were not confronted with bureaucratic obstacles at the border. however, even the best laws do us no good if they are not properly implemented or applied. because if in the past, in case-by-case investigations, it was revealed that banks sometimes did not even know who their customers were, then something was very wrong. this should not happen again in the eu. we must therefore ensure that these rules are not only implemented in the member states in their wording but also applied in day-to-day business.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, i would like to thank the two rapporteurs, mr kariņš and mrs sargentini, for their report. it is an important signal to citizens, especially from civil society, who have been demanding for years that there should finally be a public register of companies. it's actually quite natural that when you're doing business with another person, you know who you're dealing with. this is the case for individuals and should be the case for companies in the future. we have seen in cyprus where it leads when we have money laundering policies on paper, and a different reality when we implement them. the commission has failed in the past to ensure that the european money laundering directives are actually implemented. it was only afterwards that this had to be worked out laboriously. it is therefore right that parliament's position now strengthens the commission's position. the central problem in the area of money laundering is not whether one will also put the last gambling under money laundering control, but the central question is: are the laws we already have actually being implemented and are there activities to ensure that money laundering control is effective? we have great problems with implementation, not least in germany, but also in many other countries. i expect the commission to take its measures seriously and to look at the member states' implementation. the more strict the rules, the better!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it is not the first time, and probably not the last time, that we have dealt with a money laundering directive. this shows that those who launder money are very resourceful, and the legislator is always rushing to close loopholes. nevertheless, i believe that this time we have put forward a very good set of rules which covers all the things that are necessary to combat money laundering in a lasting and effective way. but we must also be careful not to shoot sparrows with our cannons. the online world in particular is a great place for money laundering. but there are also online offers that have nothing to do with money laundering. separating the cleaner from the other is worth every effort. i have therefore put forward some proposals in this direction. the second issue is -- and it's been raised before -- it also needs to be clear who is behind a company, who is behind a conglomerate. it must be clear that ownership structures are transparent. only in this way can we contribute to the effective fight against money laundering and to the protection of those who do not intend to be abused as money laundering institutions. that's part of it. there are supposed to be decent people in this world, and they must not be put under general suspicion. so, in sum, i think we have put forward a very balanced proposal which hopefully will close the loopholes that have arisen in the technical field and hopefully will be so comprehensive that those who launder money will have to spend a lot of thought on how to get around it and secondly that it is also possible to make it tangible and to become attached to it. this is our common responsibility in europe! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you very much, mr president. i'm a little overwhelmed right now. you seem to know more than i do. i intend to stand for election to the european parliament on 25 may. i am not aware that i will be a member of the commission after that. but if you can tell me that, as it were, here, thank you very much. this is a question for the commission and not for a member of the european parliament. i therefore ask the house to make appropriate use of the relevant instruments provided for in the rules of procedure.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. i welcome the closure of the european investment bank. the external engagement of the european investment bank is an important instrument of the eu's external policy. i therefore welcome the increase in the guarantee commitment for the european investment bank to eur 30 billion from the eu budget . this will enable her to strengthen her commitment. the reference to ukraine has just been dropped. the funds are all the more important because the union and the member states are unable to provide other instruments of foreign policy with sufficient funds. it is a scandal that humanitarian aid is completely underfunded. it's barely functioning because of underfunding. the gaps are even greater in the instrument for stability and peace. the eib's commitment must be subject to strict conditions, particularly in the areas of democracy, human rights and sustainable economic development. the alignment with these principles must be verifiable. it is therefore right that there are now more reporting obligations for the eib. what we are not happy with is the degree in environmental protection and the fight against climate change. he's weak, we just wish we had more. we therefore now call for priority to be given to measures with positive environmental effects in the financing of these projects.
i am not going to go into detail. today, march 11, we have the sad duty to remember the terrible terrorist attack that happened ten years ago today in madrid at atocha station. ten years ago today, multiple bombings killed 191 people. more than 2,000 people were injured. we haven't forgotten about them. we are still feeling with the families and survivors of this terrible attack, ten years later. today, 11 march, is the european day of victims of terrorism, the day of all those who suffered in europe as victims of the terrible and barbaric attacks and who must suffer as survivors. we must stand together - and this is our common desire here in the european parliament - against the fanaticism that leads to such attacks. together, we must remember and support the victims and their families. our thoughts are with them. i would be grateful if you would stand up for a minute of silence to mark this tenth anniversary. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president! - what is it? the roadworthiness package is of course of the utmost importance to us, to road safety on our european roads. and here too, best practice within the member states is a very crucial point. it is called 'united in diversity', but we have managed to draw up a directive with minimum standards for the technical components and to achieve the periodicity of inspections of technical vehicles, buses and heavy goods vehicles, so that we can also achieve our objective in this respect: less congestion on european roads. and that, i think, is something we can all be happy about.
i have to say, madam president, michael cashman just made a suggestion. i have a much simpler proposal for my colleagues in the epp: you simply have to watch how the liberals vote. that way you'll always know if you won or not. then you can save yourself the trouble of writing a check. (cheers and applause)
i have to say, madam president, the successful european plant breeding and seed production must be maintained and developed. we need european legislation to meet the many requirements for high-quality seeds while ensuring the preservation of rare varieties. the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the attempt to cover many different types of plant reproductive material in one legislative act is difficult. the commission proposal sought to transfer decisions by means of delegated acts. we are in the run-up to elections and parliament has no time to exercise its control duties. the numerous definitions for example on heterogeneous material and niche markets do not contribute to a simplification of legislation. the derogations provided for for heterogeneous material and small enterprises must not undermine the good principles of seed and plant law. the commission proposal is not balanced, nor is there any urgency. we call on the commission to come forward with a new proposal which is appropriate and well thought out.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has not had a very good day today. i think that if more than 80% of the parliament rejects a commission proposal, then it would be appropriate, indeed it would have been necessary, for the commission to withdraw its own proposal, especially since we had specifically asked for it. i say, by the way, it's not too late. i think the commission should still take parliament's wishes into account and accept the fact that the european parliament considers that this regulation does not meet the requirements. we shall have to decide again in the next parliamentary term on the reorganization of the seed law. what's this about? i would like to add to the comments made by my colleagues who spoke before me that i am particularly concerned about reducing bureaucracy and i am also particularly concerned about protecting small and mediumsized enterprises in the field of seed regulation. and as has been said, we have the time. the seed rights are settled and we can take it up again in the next parliamentary term.
i have to say, madam president, a colleague has just said that today was not a particularly good day for the commission. i would like to reverse the situation and say that today was a great day for parliament and a lesson for the commission. we have done today what the treaty of lisbon allows us to do. i have repeatedly noted that many in the commission have not yet realised that the treaty of lisbon exists. we'll teach them more in the future. we shall soon have the opportunity to do so again. as a spokesman for my group on agriculture, i have spoken to all the groups and groups and i have noticed that these 12 directives do not fit together. you don't throw 12 plants into a flower pot. there's nothing clever about it. i therefore thank all the members who voted against this draft by a large majority today. we will give the commission the chance to present a better draft in the next parliamentary term, which we will then examine. if it is appropriate, we can then agree, and if it is not appropriate, we will reject it again.
in writing. - i voted against the eu commission's proposal on seeds today. the paper had too many mistakes. it went the wrong way. we want more use of old varieties and varietal diversity, for small growers and hobby gardeners, for agriculture and forests and no kneeling before the gene lobby! if we want variety on europe's menu, we must not force seeds into a rigid single market. at best, it will provoke a tasteless, genetically engineered, uniform dough. as the bavarian representative on the environment committee of the european parliament, i have tabled over 70 amendments. these are now on the commission's desk as homework to be done by the next legislature. the european parliament has made it a binding citizen's will. i am disappointed by the undemocratic behaviour of the european commission in the plenary today the authority must accept the parliament's vote!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. despite the significant improvements we have made in the european union in recent years, 85 people still die on european roads every day. the harmonized standards for vehicle testing that we have agreed today are therefore a good way forward and a right and sensible way forward. i therefore agreed to the outcome of the negotiations today, and particularly because the harmonization of the test catalogue will enable us to take a very important step forward in terms of safety. i regret, however, that the member states have not cooperated or have prevented us from extending the test obligation to motorcycles and all categories of trailers. these vehicles are just as much a part of the traffic and it is undeniable that technical faults in motorcycles or trailers can have the same devastating consequences as in cars and lorries. i'm sorry to hear that. regardless, i think the legislation as it has been passed is fine.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i agreed to this dossier because i believe that it is high time for a new legal regulation. we see that particularly lorries on european roads are seriously deficient. and yet there are many trucking companies that allow trucks to be driven despite inadequate maintenance and technical inspections. this is possible because the controls are too rare and too incomplete. that is why we had to act here and we did it properly. the transport of goods does not stop at national borders. we must therefore be able to develop a common understanding of security and to tighten the net of controls in order to avoid abuse. that is why this result is welcome today, especially since we have managed to do so during this parliamentary term and the regulations can therefore come into force soon.
i have to say, madam president, i have agreed to the marinescu dossier, but i would like to make one further comment on the debate with the eib president, mr hoyer, yesterday. i would like to counter your claim that the figures we have presented here are nonsense and point out that this figure of 5[nbsp ]% of the eib's investment in the troika programme countries is taken from the joint report of the eib and the commission submitted to the council on 28 june 2013. so it would be good if the president who is here talking and debating with us knew his own reports. i would like to point out that in 2012 5.2%[nbsp] of eib investment was invested in the programme countries. and in 2013, the report says as of june 2013, it was 5.6%. that is to say, the thesis that the one who has already is given, this thesis i want to expressly maintain!
in writing. - i'm very happy that this report was rejected. there is no objection to a review of the contents of the 2012 budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have only one answer to these unchristian thoughts. when people don't believe in god, they don't believe in nothing, but in abstract and esoteric things. the truth disappears in the fog.
rapporteur. - madam president, we are here to debate one of the most important legislative dossiers of this mandate. thanks to the lisbon treaty, we are aiming to protect the fundamental right to data protection in a single eu-wide regulation. thanks to this european parliament, we have achieved the incredible goal of negotiating a single eu data protection law on the basis of 4[nbsp ]000 amendments, including many aspects and views from all around the world. we also managed to get a position voted with the largest possible majority of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs in october. i would like to give particular thanks to the shadow rapporteurs axel voss, dimitrios droutsas, alexander alvaro, sarah ludford, timothy kirkhope and cornelia ernst; the rapporteurs of the opinion committees, seán kelly, lara comi, marielle gallo and nadja hirsch, as well as our really hard-working staff. they all invested a lot of time and energy in negotiating this position and an agreement to be accepted. the broad consensus in parliament on the importance of a high standard for personal data in the whole european union and more consistent application and enforcement shows that the european parliament takes care of citizens’ concerns with regard to their fundamental rights to data protection and their privacy in a digitalised world. if it were only up to this house, we would already be voting on the final regulation tomorrow, in order to present european voters with a result, but more than two years after the commission proposed the draft regulation, there is still not even a general approach by the council. i am very pleased that this council presidency presented a timetable in january which envisages letting this happen by july, but i also have a clear message to the council: any further postponement would be irresponsible. the citizens of europe expect us to proceed to the adoption of a strong eu-wide data protection regulation. if there are some member states which do not want to deliver after two years of negotiations, the majority should go ahead without them. after all that has happened over the last year, european citizens and european companies will not allow us to go on accepting that our european standards are constantly being undermined by global big data business and third-country authorities. if we, the european parliament, can agree on a complex and comprehensive position, the council of ministers can also agree. there is an easy way for the ministers to agree very quickly: just follow the position of the european parliament, because all the parties gathered together in your governments have agreed to this compromise. consumer associations, as well as european enterprises, are urging us to conclude the eu data protection regulation as soon as possible, because they all know that the only ones who will profit from this law being postponed again and again will be the big data companies from silicon valley, who are constantly trying to evade eu market rules, thereby gaining competitive advantages against the eu’s it companies. we can now see that more and more citizens are searching for data protection-friendly products and services that they can trust. the governments of the european union now need to show the political will to send the message that systems, products and services in europe have a gold standard when it comes to data protection.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on employment and social affairs. - madam president! - what is it? as liberals, we would of course also welcome a european basic data protection regulation. and i am particularly proud that the employment committee has clearly taken a step forward in this respect and is protecting the rights of workers much more strongly. for example, it is no longer possible to monitor employees by video surveillance. we have clearly resisted this. i therefore call on the european governments - and in particular the german government - to finally abandon their blockade. we can't keep blocking this place. as liberals, we don't want citizens to have to choose between privacy and data protection and digital participation. we want the opposite. european data protection can become a global competitive advantage. and this is where we need to get active, so that the consumer knows exactly that whatever data they're entering into their phone or their fitness band or even in their car, that data is safe, and they know what's happening with it. that's our goal!
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. - madam president! - what is it? the epp is clear that we need the data protection regulation for europe, we need a modern, resilient regulatory framework and, above all, we need effective enforcement of the rules. citizens need legal certainty and more control over their data, and businesses need planning certainty so that they can also invest in europe. and we need this data protection regulation quickly, and that is why i am also appealing to the council of ministers to make rapid progress here so that we can make progress in this area. what we need in addition are the rules on joint crime fighting. a social network needs different rules than a police authority, for the former we need the regulation, for the latter we need the directive - in my opinion the directive in the form of the framework decision, which was adopted in 2008. if we could take this up to the directive, then the best would be done.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. data is the oil of the 21st century. and the data protection package is about nothing more and nothing less than the creation and granting of a fundamental right for all people living in the eu. and this fundamental right includes the protection of privacy, the right to privacy and thus also the right to develop one's own personality. this fundamental right prohibits the vitrification of people and the making of them objects of observation. it is a right without which citizens cannot be mature. we have put a data protection package on the table. and with great gratitude to the rapporteur, i must say that it is a package which ensures a modern principle of data protection and meets these objectives, which will hopefully be able to continue to do justice to the matter for the next years and decades. the council has now the ball and i ask it to promote strong data protection and not to delay decisions again and again. jump now!
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, let me take one or two technical questions before i come to the conclusions. concerning smes, some parliamentarians have raised concerns as to whether smes are well protected. i say that this reform is good for smes, because for those smes which do not operate cross-border, we have included a risk-based approach to data protection, which makes sense, because the safeguards a company has to apply have to be proportionate to the risk for data protection. for those smes which want to work cross-border, the reform opens the market. at the moment the fragmentation of the european market prevents smes from applying the same rules in each territory where they want to develop their business, which could mean 28 authorisations and 28 different laws to apply, so for smes and start-ups to be able to utilise the whole european space, this reform opens that space to them. it is estimated that it will make a saving of eur[nbsp ]2.3 billion for most of these small companies. some parliamentarians have also raised the question of health. i do not want to go into party polemics on this, but let me just stress that the commission proposal includes specific rules on data processing in the area of health. it says that, in very specific research circumstances, data can be processed without the consent of the individual concerned. this very specific rule is justified, in my view, because of the crucial general interest which medical research brings to society. i believe that the commission’s proposal should be maintained on this point, as it strikes a balance between protecting citizens’ rights in a very delicate domain and facilitating the indispensable research which saves lives. i hope that the negotiators in the trilogue will find a balance in this field which can please those who want to preserve the individual and those who want to preserve research. concerning the directive, we in this house should never forget that the freedom and security of our european citizens are two sides of the same coin. they are two policy objectives that should be pursued in parallel. one cannot advance without the other, and one should not eliminate the other. that is why the commission answered the european parliament’s call to present a reform that would apply to the private sector as well as to the law enforcement domain. i believe that, in light of the nsa spying revelations, european citizens are more concerned than ever about the risk of abuse and the invasion of privacy, by institutions sometimes hiding behind security considerations. law enforcement is not above the law. by the way, speaking of directive and framework decisions, this house should know that the framework decisions will automatically become directives on 1[nbsp ]december this year, and for this change we do not need a parliament. i hope the european parliament will go a step beyond the soon-to-be-obsolete intergovernmental method of pre-lisbon times. that is what parliament should do, and that is what i am pleading for. i think that is also what the citizens would like us to do. they will not understand how parliament could oppose a directive which would protect citizens in the law enforcement domain, and that is why tomorrow i would really like to see a strong vote and a united parliament backing both proposals – the regulation and the directive. ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow’s vote must bring us closer to ensuring that the european union remains a gold standard setter for data protection worldwide, and it should give the european parliament’s negotiators, who need to sit down and speak about every detail with the council, a strong mandate for the future negotiations. it should make crystal clear that for europe, and in europe, data protection is much more than just a concept or a vague principle. here we are speaking about a fundamental right, and we should back a fundamental right with a fundamental law. in this sense i congratulate the european parliament on its strength and ambition. let us not discuss details. let us see the fundamental rights question. let us go for it. european citizens expect nothing less and deserve nothing less.
president-in-office of the council. - madam president, honourable members, i think i explained in my opening remarks the reasons why it has not been possible for the member states and the council to make more rapid progress, as everybody would have wished. during the greek presidency – our presidency – which, as i said, is now in its tenth week, we have already organised ten meetings of the relevant working group. at the informal ministerial meeting in athens on 23[nbsp ]january there was clearly overall support for the approach of chapter[nbsp ]5, on international data transfers, and article[nbsp ]3, on the territorial scope of the regulation. this support was confirmed at the council meeting last week. i agree with the rapporteurs, and also with the vice-president of the commission, that the union must take the lead in the development of legislation on data protection. while working on this file, we of course also have to make sure of the high quality of the legal framework in order to meet the challenges posed by the rapid changes in information and communication technology and ensure a high level of protection of fundamental rights, as was rightly mentioned by vice-president reding. she also noted – and i want to underline this – the growth dimension of this proposal (this package), not just for smes but also for the integration of the internal market. for all these reasons, the greek presidency is committed to progress on this file. i am sure that parliament and the council will be able to bring this file to a successful conclusion, with all our support. we are determined to push for conclusion. our aim, for the time being, is to have a positive conclusion, at least partially, so that we can start the trilogue by the end of june.
rapporteur. - madam president, i would like to thank my colleagues who took part in this good debate. in my final remarks, i would like to address some concerns – or rather, misunderstandings – which seem to be circulating. first, we do clearly differentiate small and medium-sized enterprises from bigger businesses. there are a number of points which lighten the burden for smes. but we also have to change to a certain extent the approach when it comes to data processing, because it is not only the size of a company that might count, but also the volume of personal data being processed in a company. that is what we are trying to do in our compromise, for example with regard to data protection officers or to impact assessments. it is the risk which counts, and we have taken that into account. secondly, some publishers’ and journalists’ organisations fear that this regulation would make their work as journalists more difficult. that is not the case at all. the existing data protection law already provides for reconciliation of data protection and freedom of expression by the member states, which is exactly what we ensure in article[nbsp ]80. nothing will change for journalists in this regard, and the same is true for other special professions, for example researchers and archivists. by the way, with regard to health research, it is clear that we make an exception for this. we say that there is an exception for high public interest and that consent is not necessary. health data is a sensitive case, and in any case we cannot allow people just to run into doctors’ offices to take our personalised private profiles. so it needs to be reconciled, and that is what we have tried to do. my third and last point concerns the fact that a few member states raised the fear that this regulation would replace the rules which decide whether personal data can be processed by public authorities. that is also not the case. on the contrary, this regulation even states explicitly that there have to be member state laws for data processing by public authorities. that is why the regulation does not say which data can be processed by tax authorities or schools. the member states have to decide this. so this, in the end, is a good, proportionate and strong compromise. we hope that we can start negotiations with the council directly after this parliament has been reconstituted and you have found your position in council.
question for the president of the council (b7-0330/97) by mr dimitrios droutsas on the 'blue card' procedure i had asked for a 'blue card' for the contribution of mrs droutsas' colleagues, because in the speeches mrs in 't veld also repeatedly referred to the package approach and the co-decision procedure in this directive. we cannot seriously assume that if we leave one group completely out of a report, we will get their approval. i don't suppose you think that's the way to do it either.
president-in-office of the council. - madam president, in recent months we have been confronted with a number of increasingly worrying leaks, media reports and allegations related to secret us surveillance programmes impacting on the privacy and personal data of eu citizens. the disclosure of information about the surveillance programmes operated by the us national security agency (nsa) has understandably raised a number of complex questions and serious concerns about its effects on eu citizens. these concerns have been expressed at both eu and member state level and relate, inter alia, in particular to the important issue of the protection of personal data. in response to these revelations, this house has set up the inquiry by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) into mass surveillance practices, and i understand that you will vote tomorrow on the report, which has been drawn up following very intensive work in the libe committee. it is clear that considerable effort has gone into preparing this report, and i would like to take this opportunity to warmly congratulate mr claude moraes and his shadow rapporteurs on such a substantial and serious piece of work. your report has achieved a careful balance between the reasons for acting in this area and the reasons for not taking any action. it advances the idea of a so-called european digital habeas corpus on protecting fundamental rights in a digital age. it does not make a lot of sense for me to comment now on the eight action points which are recommended in this report, since the report has not yet been discussed in the council. on some of the recommendations, such as those on the eu-us umbrella agreement or the terrorist finance tracking programme agreement (tftp), it is for the commission to act. the same holds true for the us safe harbour, which is a commission decision and on which i already addressed this house back in january. i indicated then that we very much support the commission’s initiative to make contacts with the us in order to seek improvements to the shortcomings the commission has identified in its communication on safe harbour, most of which – by the way – are not specific to nsa surveillance practices. the report of this house – your report – rightly underscores that the process of increasing mass surveillance has not been subject to any prior public, democratic debate. we therefore welcome today’s debate and the process which you have initiated through this report. we are also listening with interest to the democratic debate that is going on on the other side of the atlantic. we have noted that the report and recommendations of the review group on intelligence and communication technologies set up by president obama has prompted very lively discussions in washington. this brings us to the heart of the matter. the impact of the nsa mass surveillance practices on eu citizens and residents has, understandably, raised significant concerns in europe. it is the fundamental rights of our citizens that are at stake. at the same time it is the right and duty of all states – including our closest ally and partner, the united states of america – to protect their nation against terrorist and other attacks on their sovereignty. an appropriate balance can and should be found. i agree with the rapporteur that discussion is needed on the purpose and scale of surveillance and its place in a democratic society. however, we should not create the illusion that the european union alone can decide on these matters. the public debate that is taking place in the united states will be equally important to our concerns. we therefore particularly welcome president obama’s launch of a review of us surveillance programmes. the only way to address these different issues is through open and constructive dialogue with the us. we would encourage all those concerned to continue and widen our discussions to ensure that we are able together to achieve an appropriate balance between respect for the fundamental rights of individual citizens and the importance of ensuring that our wider considerations are also adequately protected.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, let me begin by thanking claude moraes for his dedication and excellent work on the report before us today. i would also like to thank his colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs and co-authors, because parliament – and mainly its committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) – had a lot of work to do to have an informed inquiry and produce a comprehensive report in a very short time frame. the issues which are raised in this report are crucial; they hinge around the adverse impact that large-scale government surveillance has on the privacy and data protection rights of our citizens. the debate in recent months on these fundamental rights has been remarkable and has taken place – as the presidency just said – not only in europe but also on the other side of the atlantic. last july, i first stood here in this chamber to discuss with you the possible eu response to the us surveillance allegations that had only just surfaced. these allegations had shaken our trust in governments, companies and the digital economy – trust between allies and in the transatlantic relationship. things have moved quite fast since then, and europe’s response has been clear. last january, on the occasion of data protection day, i made the case that the appropriate solution for restoring trust in transatlantic relations and in the way that companies and governments handle citizens’ data is a data protection compact for europe. i have already shared with you the details of the commission’s proposed actions, outlined in two communications adopted last november, where we identified the main steps that will help us to allay these concerns. but i believe that they are worth repeating, as they have a strong bearing on the action plan for the european digital habeas corpus and the recommendations that you are proposing in the report you are voting on. the commission is already actively pursuing many of the avenues that you are proposing in your action plan. let me highlight the main features and update you on this issue. i do not need to speak very much on the data protection reform, because we just had a debate on this. on safe harbour: as you know, the european commission has already conducted a thorough analysis of its functioning, and it has come to the conclusion that safe harbour may not be so safe. it has submitted a thirteen-point to-do list to our us counterparts to solve by summer. our discussions with our us counterparts on each of our thirteen recommendations have reached the half-way point; the usa is listening carefully to our concerns and making constructive efforts to reduce the loopholes we have identified in our assessment. we believe that progress can be made within the time frame set out by the communication – that means by summer this year. but let me be very clear on this. we stand firm in our position that all recommendations must be addressed. the thirteen points, including the one on national security, must be addressed before we can grant safe harbour a clean bill of health. in this context, access to safe harbour data on grounds of national security is, of course, a key issue. the us must provide the eu with convincing assurances that the exemption contained in the safe harbour decision remains an exemption and does not become the rule. it is now time to implement the announcements of president obama regarding extending protection to europeans. as regards the umbrella agreement, the commission has not faltered in its negotiations with the us. you know that, because i have regularly informed parliament of our advances or non-advances on this file. our last round of negotiations took place at the end of february. the next one will be held in the coming weeks, and we are available to debrief the libe committee on the state of play. we all know that this agreement will be an important avenue of cooperation in the law enforcement sector. we are determined to achieve a successful outcome that guarantees a high level of protection for citizens, who should benefit from the same enforceable rights on both sides of the atlantic. the us also recognises its importance. at the last eu-us ministerial meeting in washington in november, both sides reaffirmed their mutual commitment to stepping up the pace, and attorney general eric holder reiterated his commitment to resolving the outstanding issues, including judicial redress. the political momentum is there, and we are aiming for a swift conclusion by summer. i think this is achievable. in this context, i was encouraged by the constructive signals given in president obama’s speech in january. of course, it will take more than words and a speech to rebuild trust. i hope that words turn into action. the eu-us summit will be an opportunity to gauge whether the us is ready to do what it takes to conclude the negotiations on the umbrella agreement. we will also ask for binding commitments from the us to use formal channels of cooperation, such as a mutual legal assistance agreement or other sectoral agreements concerning accessing data held by private companies located in the eu. your report emphasises the need to develop an independent and secure european it framework and for the eu to take the lead in internet governance. the commission shares the goal of developing a robust framework, one that not only ensures and enhances privacy and data protection but is secure and immune to criminal cyber-attacks and invasive surveillance. this is all the more important, given that personal data today fuel our technology-driven economy and the global markets. the commission proposals for a network and information security directive and the associated public-private platform that has been established are already significant steps in that direction. the measures included in the directive will not only help to diminish the threat of cyber-attacks, they will also make large-scale surveillance and various forms of spying considerably more difficult. the commission fully supports the need to speed up the work of the european cloud partnership. in fact, the recommendations produced by the steering board of the european cloud partnership will be delivered very soon. their vision for a trusted cloud europe will provide important additional elements for future policy-related activities in the field of cloud computing. the commission also recently adopted a communication on internet policy and governance. it considers that the internet should remain a single, open, free, unfragmented network of networks subject to the same laws and norms that apply in other areas of our day-to-day lives. its governance should be based on an inclusive, transparent and accountable model of governance. let me once again congratulate parliament on bringing this issue into an open public debate. i am looking forward to working together with you on this subject, because with this debate we will not have finished our job. our job is only beginning.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not the epp is clear: the protection of personal data is a fundamental right and must remain a reality for the citizens of europe. we therefore also want european law to apply wherever data of european citizens is processed. no one with political responsibility can seriously deny that what we have had to learn in this process, in this investigation, about the nsa raises very fundamental questions. it is a question of how we choose the means in relation to the danger if we want to eliminate or counter that danger. freedom and security - that is an old wisdom here in the house - must be balanced over and over again by law and order. the ideas we have in the report are therefore good. we are also succeeding here, in reference to the directive just adopted, not only in forming a progressive majority without the epp, but we should also be able to do so on the basis of this, together with the epp, as in the other report. after all, we are at a kind of turning point right now. we must ask ourselves whether we can still provide privacy for our citizens in the future. the question at stake is nothing less than the question of human dignity, human rights, the right to self-determination, but also the right to a protected privacy. it is being challenged by two developments: on the one hand, by the mass surveillance by the nsa or intelligence activity, but on the other hand, by the private data hacks, the internet giants. it is therefore right from this point of view to suspend or abolish the safe harbor agreement, because i also believe that we cannot cure it by the commission's recommendations in a way where we can set reasonable limits. so i think we need to do something completely different. it is helpful in this case to look for building blocks for how we can make privacy safer for our citizens. we want to try to do this by becoming it independent of other countries. it is not helpful to link mr snowden to this report, which is actually linked to a completely different subject. that is why it is important that we have a dialogue with the united states on the transatlantic partnership. what we need to discuss with them is basically partnership with the us on counter-terrorism, counter-crime. this is still of paramount importance. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tftp programme is not subject to any form of mass surveillance or spying. i would therefore ask everyone here to support the fight against crime and terrorism through the tftp programme, because we believe it is right to consider the financing of terrorism. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. dear axel voss, you say that this is about a balance between security interests on the one hand and data protection on the other. but is this investigation not much more about the fact that the right we have decided has been violated in all the countries of the european union and in the united states? and by the way, the u.s. government has apparently already acknowledged that. so we're going to back down from the u.s. government and not even talk about the fact that a violation of the law has occurred? and besides, you also say we shouldn't include edward snowden in the report. yes, what would we be talking about today if edward snowden hadn't released those documents?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i'm not going to tell you. of course, we're grateful that edward snowden brought this up so that we can deal with this understanding that we have today. but it is quite another question, after the title we have given ourselves here, to link mass surveillance to an individual's fate and to divert attention to a question which is not at all relevant to this report. we should be much more concerned with our citizens and their privacy than with this other question which can be brought to the house by means of another initiative or whatever. but to divert attention from this question to this point does not help us at all. we would have been much better off if we had concentrated on what our task is rather than always answering this one question which does not help us.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i have heard from the council that there have been worrying leaks, media reports and allegations. it is not the leaks, the allegations or the media reports which are worrying but the substance of what is being reported. it is worrying that there are infringements to the rule of law and fundamental rights on a massive scale. it is also worrying that that there has been a scandalous silence for eight months from all the eu governments and the council. that is the worrying issue here. i would also say that edward snowden is not a criminal who has done something wrong. he is the whistle-blower who has done what is necessary as a whistle-blower. he has again told us that he tried three times to report the wrongdoing which had been committed to the upper levels in the nsa, but nobody listened to him. he then did not put this document on a website – somewhere online – but gave it to responsible journalists to decide for themselves whether it was important for the public to know about it and whether security issues could be overlooked because of it. we have to take the consequences of that. i am really disappointed that no eu government has stood up to say that he is a witness and that we should get him into the european union to get the facts on the table, and that we should get the journalists here so that they are able to say what the documents are about, so that we can really scrutinise what has happened. we have to draw our conclusions. is it really working in favour of the national security of an eu member state to spy on the companies, the people, the citizens and the institutions of another eu member state? no, that is not the national security which we mean in the treaty of the european union. we have to discuss it here and draw our own conclusions. we have to call on the national parliamentarians to help us with further investigations. that is why we need the report tomorrow. i thank claude moraes very much for his great work. (applause)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not edward snowden has responded to the libe committee's questions that mass surveillance has become a risk to the personal security of citizens and threatens our way of life - that's something to think about - because it is eroding basic rights, those basic rights that are the basis of liberal societies. so it is about the liberalism of democratic societies and their moral integrity. the key question is essentially how much repression and surveillance the free, social, pluralistic and secure society in which we want to live can tolerate, and how much is actually needed to achieve it. the value of this report by claude moraes is that it has really tackled this problem and classified mass surveillance as a break with the eu's basic values. i am not saying that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. and for that our group would like to thank him in particular. but our special respect goes to edward snowden and the many other whistleblowers who, despite the various findings we have now, have lost everything - i remember the hearing with the whistleblowers - even the country in which they grew up! it is part of a democratic society to be able to speak the truth and demand change without having to expect repression for life and limb. that's why protecting whistleblowers is as important as providing asylum for edward snowden!
blue-card question. – i am curious, because you mentioned the transatlantic trade agreement (tta) responding to the concerns we have here. i have read the mandate, and there is nothing about fundamental rights in it. so i would be really happy to hear from your side what substantive response the tta negotiations has provided on this. is the opposite not the truth? we have been negotiating for three years on the question of whether european citizens get legal redress under us privacy laws because, until now, we have had no possibility of getting judicial redress, and yet we are sitting here and doing nothing. i really think the two things should be linked to each other. do you not agree?
mr president, commissioner, dear presidency of the council! i would like to begin by thanking mr claude moraes for not only addressing the issues of public interest but also for including a great many factual issues in the report, such as questions of information security in the european union. we must urgently build up our own technical capacities in the european union, which will make us independent of companies like huawei or companies like cisco, american and asian companies, and we must also build up our own production lines in the important sensitive technical fields. it is also important that we should co-finance innovation and research in this sector and co-finance our own companies, as is done on other continents. but it is also important to tackle cybercrime and to realize that - as much as i appreciate you, dear jan-philip - the focus of the negative cyber-interventions is still on criminals and not on the nsa. i think the discussion here is a little too focused on the nsa alone. i would focus them more on the fact that we have some government access from china, from asian countries, from eastern european countries, from russia. we need to do more to protect our citizens' data, and we also need to be very strong in our resistance to data hacking from google to facebook when they don't handle our data or our citizens' data the way we want them to.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. with our nsa report, we are sending a clear signal. the mass surveillance of innocent citizens without justification is unacceptable. intelligence services are supposed to protect the democratic rule of law, not abolish it. that is why, in addition to strong data protection, we need clear rules on intelligence services and their control in our member states and in the united states. and to make ourselves heard there, we can put the tftp agreement and the safe harbour rules on hold, both of which are controversial anyway. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and that is why we will not agree to a free trade agreement with the united states without strong guarantees of fundamental rights. this parliament has the political power to strengthen european values and fundamental rights, rather than further undermining them. but we must also use this power for the nsa report and for data protection, because, ladies and gentlemen, we are representatives of the interests of 500 million citizens, not of some private or government lobbyists!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, my thanks to the rapporteur. i must say, however, that we should ask ourselves the question: if the european governments want to negotiate credibly with third countries, with the united states, how are they going to do that if, on the one hand, they block a basic data protection regulation, if a german federal government, a csu, cdu, spd, wants to introduce unnecessary data retention itself? it is very difficult to make a credible argument against russia, china or the united states. let us therefore take action. i think it is good that we in the european parliament have been able to encrypt since january, under pressure from the members themselves, and it is high time! but i also believe that we urgently need to be independent of us players. we must move more towards european decentralization of servers. no european internet - that does not work and we do not want that. but we have a lot of smart, innovative start-ups that can make a difference right here.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, honourable members, let me first say how grateful i am to parliament, the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for making its voice known and heard at a very early stage of the process. this is a clear signal of both the importance and the urgency of developing the best tools to protect the eu budget from the hands of criminals. i want to thank all those who contributed constructively to this excellent interim report, and i will listen to parliament with the utmost attention and will, of course, consider its recommendations very seriously in the context of the negotiations in the council. we have a common duty: a duty to fight crime against the union’s financial interests. fraud in the member states affecting the eu budget leads to significant financial losses. estimates point to several hundreds of millions of euros every year, but fraud also undermines the trust of european citizens in their institutions, and that is why we have to fight corruption and crime. the european public prosecutor’s office aims to strengthen and help the member states in their fight against crime, targeting criminals who violate the union’s financial interests. the proposal put on the table by the commission last july, following a request from parliament, is also part of a new framework which we have been putting in place. it includes the anti-fraud directive and the whole set of procedural rights at european level, as well as a reformed eurojust. we have proposed an integrated and decentralised model. firstly, in order to avoid the creation of a new heavy, costly, complex parallel structure and to rely on the national authorities’ expertise in their respective legal systems, and secondly, to guarantee the independence and efficiency of the european public prosecutor’s office, which are sine qua non conditions for ensuring the credibility and authority of the new office. all activities of the european public prosecutor’s office must be guided by the principles enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights, including the protection of a fair trial and the equality of arms principle, as well as the right not to be tried or punished twice for the same crime (n . i would like to specifically address two aspects referred to in the interim report: procedural rights and judicial review. i concur with the report’s finding on procedural rights. the respect of eu minimum standards in the fields of the rights of the individual in criminal proceedings in all member states is a key element for the proper functioning of the european public prosecutor’s office. the proposed regulation therefore aims to afford the highest standard of protection to suspects against whom criminal proceedings are instituted by the european public prosecutor’s office. this is essential in order to counterbalance the powers of investigation and prosecution of the european public prosecutor’s office, exercised at union level. we have, therefore, included as a key element of the proposal a robust system of protection for suspects’ rights, which relies on the union’s acquis in this area, as well as on national law. the proposed regulation confers new rights directly to suspects, which can be exercised in accordance with national law, such as the right to collect and present evidence. turning now to the judicial review, judicial review by national courts and the possibility of preliminary rulings by the court of justice, as foreseen in the proposal, will ensure a comprehensive level of judicial scrutiny and uniform application of the regulation throughout the union. nonetheless, the commission is open to considering additional options to strengthen judicial review during the negotiations in the council, including the possibility of a stronger role for the court of justice of the european union. let me also tell you that i had a very constructive debate on the proposal with ministers in last week’s justice council. the greek presidency had skilfully put three questions to the ministers, covering structure, division of labour and procedural safeguards. the discussions showed strong support for the objective and led to clear guidance for the follow-up work at technical level. i remain convinced that the more member states participate in this european initiative, the better european taxpayers’ money will be protected in all our member states. the recent debate in the council indicated to me that there might be a chance to have many member states on board for the project. i think that is good news. the commission is therefore keeping an open mind in the ongoing negotiation process to seek a reasonable compromise. the findings and the recommendations of your interim report will be conducive to advancing the discussions in this regard.
the committee on budgetary control, which is consultative, has adopted the opinion. - madam president, madam commissioner, i have to say that i am not in favour of this. it is a shame that the council is not taking part in this debate. and it may be significant for the whole process. we are in danger of naively setting up an inefficient european authority which will be overburdened, which will be a significant setback in terms of standards, which will be a threat to citizens' rights and which will do absolutely nothing to protect european funds. and this after ten years of debate! i must say that i am very surprised by what the commission has put forward here. the weak ones stay. and the main weakness is the inefficiency of the judiciary in some member states, not to say in many member states. the commission is not doing anything here. the setup is that it's crucial to what's not working so far. i have tabled five amendments which i would like to promote here, concerning parliamentary participation in the appointment of the eppo: a procedure for recall, a european criminal court, a european code of criminal procedure and the abolition of immunity for eu officials so that the eppo can also do its work in brussels. i think that the eu officials should also set a good example in facilitating the investigative work of the eppo.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i am generally pleased and satisfied to see that the commission is using its competence in the field of cooperation in criminal and judicial matters to combat organised and serious crime. we have often observed in parliament, and particularly in the report of the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering, that the successful fight against this form of crime has a multifaceted effect on the financial interests of the eu member states themselves. what i am disappointed about - and i can understand mrs gräßle very well - is the suggestion that there is no clear definition of financial competences, and sometimes no clear definition of content either. we have a significant impact on the budget of the european union from organised crime, whether it is drug trafficking, human trafficking, cybercrime or many other forms of crime. i hope that we will finally be able to reduce the number of posts in the less important areas and to re-sort them into the important ones. this includes, for example, eurojust, because so far no additional resources or staff have been earmarked for the european public prosecutor. eurojust is to handle all this from the top down, in addition to the additional tasks. we have supported 2[nbsp]213 people this year there were 1[nbsp]625 cases in ten years there should be only 2[nbsp]500 cases with 190 employees. i think that, frankly, is not very realistic and lacks equipment. the situation is similar at europol.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. crimes against the eu's financial interests always have a direct impact on the european taxpayer. and that is why my group has in principle voted in favour of the establishment of a european public prosecutor. but the commission proposal as it stands is problematic. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the fact that the european parliament has not yet been consulted on the matter. but trust in the rule of law requires both the identification and prosecution of offenders and full respect for the procedural rights of the accused. in the consent procedure, we can only agree or disagree. and so it's important that we send a clear signal where we see room for improvement. the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should be consulted on the interpretation of the convention. the european prosecutor shall be independent in his or her duties. at the same time, effective remedies for those affected are needed. we need a clear definition of when the european public prosecutor can even take action. and the rules on admissibility of evidence must not lead to harmonisation at the lowest level. in any case, it is important to me that a european public prosecutor should initially be used only to combat crimes against the financial interests of the eu. our report sets out clear guidelines which are also important for the future discussions in the council, because we want to fight crimes against the eu budget more effectively, but only while improving the rule of law standards in the eu. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, first of all let me thank the rapporteur and the other shadows for this intermediate report. i think it is a very important sign, because we need to keep on working. but what is not good is that the council is absent, and this signal that we have to send out must be perceived by the council. we can only give our consent at the end, and if the council does not listen to us now, perhaps we will not be able to give our consent at the end. there are some preconditions. for example, if you want to say (a) that you want to have more cross-border cooperation, which is necessary, then you also have to say (b) that we need to have common standards in the european union. together, here in the house, with all the parties together, we have achieved the right to information and the letter of rights and the right to interpretation and access to a lawyer, all brought through the house here and through the council. i think, therefore, it is really disappointing that with regard to the next step – the data protection directive – there is a huge part of this house which does not want to go ahead with these standards. it is a precondition, so let us develop these standards, because this is also a precondition for creating such an office, which we sorely need in order to better fight organised crime.
madam president, i raise my blue card to ms kari and i would like to ask her a question, and you have noticed it also.
blue-card question to ms kari. – what i heard before him, and perhaps he can answer me, is that there is obviously no need for cross-border cooperation, and obviously no need for improvement. however, what i have heard until now from prosecutors – and i am a green party member who is in favour of civil liberties and subsidiarity – is that there is actually a need for better cooperation when it comes to law enforcement and among prosecutors. i would like to know how they wish to improve this situation.
i have to say, madam president, the idea of the european public prosecutor is actually a very good one. but as rapporteur for the reform of eurojust, i would like to stress that there are still many open questions which should be clarified before the proposal for a regulation for both institutions is put into practice. that is why certain questions should be clarified. firstly, how should the reform of eurojust be dealt with if we have increased cooperation here? i also believe that the european prosecutor's office, based on enhanced cooperation, is a contradiction in terms. another question is the impact of the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office on eurojust's budget. the european union should also examine these general areas of criminal law in a critical way, in order to clarify procedural issues and to create uniform structures through harmonisation measures, while respecting the principle of proportionality, subsidiarity and the national legal systems and traditions of the individual member states. if we implement this as it is at the moment, there will be enormous problems in the practical work. which retired prosecutor is assigned to this case? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. there is no code of criminal procedure in the proposal either. what happens to the defendant's participation rights and protective rights? is it even compatible with the statutory judge that the public prosecutor can choose the court afterwards? my conclusion is that i am in favour of the principle, but it has to be set up properly. and i don't think we're ready for that here.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. turkey is an important neighbour, a big country, a proud country. many turks live with us in the european union. in all the debates on accession, religion has never been a factor for us as liberals. i am glad and i would like to thank the rapporteur, ria oomen-ruijten, very much for the fact that throughout our work, throughout our cooperation, we have always kept the whole thing political. i think that's very good, thank you very much, ria, for the good cooperation! what matters to us are freedoms. and freedoms are exactly what is threatened in turkey. freedom of the press: more journalists are in prison in turkey than in china or iran. online, the prime minister threatens to shut down facebook or twitter because they're transporting things that don't suit him. you may think this is a joke, but youtube has been blocked in turkey before. if we look at how civil society is being constricted by more and more religious regulations being implemented on the ground, which make it harder for people to shape their private lives the way they want to, then that's not right. the independence of the judiciary, the freedom of judges to decide for themselves what is right, to know what is right, is limited by the fact that there were hundreds, yes, thousands of forced transfers at the moment when the judiciary systematically turned against the obvious widespread corruption at the top of the state. the whole of this development is as worrying as the impasse in constitutional reform. and i say to you here: we must work with turkey, which is - i said this - a great, important neighbour and a proud country. we must cooperate on energy policy, we must cooperate on foreign policy. what turkey is doing for syrian refugees is admirable. but the accession process that we started in 2005 and that is not moving at all, that has paradoxically made relations between the european union and turkey worse rather than better, this accession process, it must be suspended. we should suspend the negotiations until turkey has changed its mind and respects the freedoms of its citizens and the independence of its judiciary. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you very much, mr president. i have some bad news for you, i forgot my crystal ball today. i cannot give you a number of how many turks would like to move to northern europe by 2025. but that's not the point. what we can do in practice is to improve the conditions for business people, students and academics to travel, to end this humiliating visa procedure which many turks face outside our consulates in istanbul, ankara and other cities. we can do something concrete for the people, including civil society in turkey. because when i say that we should suspend the accession negotiations for the time being, that is a matter that primarily concerns the government. but that doesn't mean that we don't welcome people and think about them.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the recent events concerning the corruption scandal once more make clear how important it is to have a credible accession process because, if member states did not always reject outright turkey’s accession no matter what, then we would have much more leverage. if we had not necessarily started negotiations with things surrounding the single market, but more with human rights, with fundamental rights, with justice, we would not have had the same problems now concerning the independence of justice. we simply cannot threaten to stop a negotiation process which is not de facto happening. but instead of being strong and clear on human rights we have been starting to export our own human rights problems into turkey, as we are doing now with the readmission agreement. we all know that the rights of migrants will not be respected in turkey, therefore we should not have a readmission agreement, whereas we agreed that visa liberalisation is a very important tool. yes, there have been important democratic reforms in the past year but they have been overshadowed by declarations on internet freedom and by the violence against protestors in gezi park. i too want to remind us of fifteen-year-old berkin elvan who died because of injuries caused by tear gas bullets. i am also concerned by attacks on offices of the people’s democratic party, halkların demokratik partisi, and i hope that this will not prevent the coming elections from being peaceful and free from attacks. furthermore any progress is overshadowed by the current corruption scandal and developments that i can only interpret as a threat to the independence of the justice system. but once again, the role of the eu could be much stronger if we were to have a clear commitment to a positive outcome on prospects for membership. we would have much stronger leverage if we were to be clear that yes, we will accept turkey in our midst if turkey fulfils the copenhagen criteria. this is the only thing that counts and member states should finally be clear about this.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. geoffrey, would you agree with the following proposal? we are in fact making the european union a more flexible entity, where, for example, the united kingdom has a looser connection with the countries that stubbornly cling to this political integration that is so disruptive to you. and turkey will then join the two-speed europe on the same level as the united kingdom. turkey would be on the same level as the united kingdom, and i think we would all be happy that those who want to continue politically could do so. would that be an idea you'd like to have?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank mr marinescu and the shadow rapporteurs for their really excellent work on the report on the single european sky. the single european sky can be an important example of how we can succeed in offering more environmentally friendly and at the same time more cost-effective air connections through the european added value of cooperation. that is why we must press ahead with this project, particularly as regards its implementation in the member states. as a resident of a border region with many airports in the vicinity, i know very well what the effort is when planes have to fly around existing air infrastructure facilities. we should therefore invest even more effort in the unification of european airspace in such a way that we achieve not only the best routes but also the best coordination on the part of air traffic control. unfortunately, air traffic control remains a national matter, which does not make it easy to achieve the objectives of the european legislator. it is all the more important that the european parliament should take the lead in this.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. the package travel directive in force today dates from 1990. there was no internet then. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. to achieve this, the following new definitions are proposed. first, the package tour is being extended to all forms of recovery. secondly, the concept of 'joint travel arrangements' is introduced. thirdly, in the amendment to the commission's draft, purely advertising click-through bookings are not covered. (a) the transmission of personal data by the intermediary through a link, which enables a specific offer tailored to the traveller, is considered to be a linked travel arrangement; consequence: liability of the intermediary for the insolvency of other parties; (b) if only the destination and travel time are transmitted when the link is made, and no personal data are therefore transmitted, it is a purely general offer which is classified as advertising and therefore does not fall within the scope of the directive. the aim is to avoid the inclusion of airlines or railway companies, for example, which point to a general hotel portal or a musical page and only communicate the destination and time there. at the same time, this regulation serves the purpose of data protection. this is because the transfer of personal data is certainly severely restricted. the following table summarises the information on the different types of packages, including the types of packages that are not covered by the scope of the reporting obligation. this applies, for example, to sports clubs and charitable institutions. i would point out that, as with any directive, member states may go beyond the scope of the directive by national legislation. the liability of tour operators and/or travel agents: there are differences between member states, e.g. in france, luxembourg, spain, italy and poland. in some cases, the organisers and intermediaries are liable individually, in others in parallel. the commission therefore intends to continue to allow national differences in liability. we have tried to achieve full harmonization. for subsequent price increases: an increase may only come from outside z.[nbsp ]e.g. airline, gasoline or tax increases and only be passed on if it is higher than 3[nbsp ]%. however, if it is above 8%, the traveller can terminate the contract free of charge. the commission had planned 10%; parliament wants to vote more consumer-friendly. the traveller is also entitled to receive an alternative offer. if the traveller does not accept the price increase or alternative offer, he must be reimbursed for all costs, all incidental costs such as insurance. in the event of unforeseeable and exceptional circumstances, the rights of the traveller shall be identical to those of the passenger. the organiser may organise the accommodation in the category booked. if this is not possible, the traveller can book five nights with a maximum of 125€ per night. when can an ancillary service which does not take place give rise to compensation claims? this is the case if the ancillary service is the decisive reason for the trip or if it represents more than 25% of the total price. example of a relevant ancillary service: the reason for the trip is a football match, but the price of admission is only 15% of the total price including flight and accommodation. if the football match, which is the main reason for the trip, does not take place, the traveller may withdraw from the contract. in the event of insolvency, the organiser of a package tour or the intermediary of a package tour shall be fully liable. the passenger must be offered the possibility of continuing the journey if he wishes to do so and if it is possible. as regards general liability for poor performance, in the case of linked travel arrangements each partial supplier is liable only for its own performance. in the case of a package, the organiser is always liable, as he is the first point of contact. finally, as rapporteur, i am concerned that amendment no 100 should be rejected. these are circumstances which are typical of a private insurance, of a travel insurance. i think we should not impose incalculable risks on tour operators or even over-regulate them. in conclusion, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, the secretariat staff and my assistant, julia lindemann, for the rapid, extensive and extremely constructive cooperation which has essentially made possible a large and sensible compromise.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. first of all, i should like to thank our rapporteur, professor hans-peter mayer, for his work here, and this is not a mere formality. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament. i think he has left a very excellent footnote in this parliament, not only with this proposal but also with many other excellent contributions. i am glad that we are discussing this report today. i should like to make three comments on the substance of this report. first of all, i think that the main improvement from the consumer's point of view is that we make subsequent price increases in the package travel sector very clear in this directive, namely that any price increases that may be added from outside to a trip already booked but not yet taken - for example, fuel surcharges or other tax increases - may not be passed on to the consumer at all until they reach 3% of the value of the trip and that any price increase of more than 8% will give the consumer a right of cancellation or withdrawal at the end. this creates a great deal of clarity in a rather unpleasant environment in this area, which travellers sometimes had in front of them. secondly, madam vice-president, it was a matter which shaped our work very much at the very beginning of this parliamentary term, and we succeeded in including in this proposal some of the fully harmonised areas of the consumer rights directive. i would also like to thank the honourable member for that. and i think that, of course, the question that remains is, to what extent have we succeeded in equating offline providers in the package travel sector with online providers? but we have a very difficult situation here because in the online sector there are different offers, click-through offers, which we now regulate differently from the offline offers. but i think it was necessary in the context of the fact that we have to regulate the individual offers stand-alone offers in the online market in the same way in the long term. that is why we have a lot of work to do for the second reading!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would also like to express my sincere thanks to mr mayer and all the shadow rapporteurs. i think we've done a really good job here, especially with the time pressure we've been under. i would also have liked the commission to have put forward the proposal earlier so that we could have had more time to discuss it. but despite the time pressure, i think we've accomplished a lot. i would just like to bring up a subject which is very important to me personally, because i keep hearing that it needs to be revised. i think we have to take note of one thing. the consumer, the traveller, has different expectations, different needs and wants to be treated differently. if we now put everyone under the same protection - including those who, for example, arrange their own travel - then certain services would disappear. and if those services disappear, then consumers would complain. i believe that what we can and must achieve is transparency in the market. the consumer must know what to expect. the consumer must also get what he has paid for. transparency is important, but i think that overprotection is wrong and inappropriate!
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i just want to say that the amendments proposed to plenary constitute overall a very good basis for further negotiations. this is thanks to the rapporteur hans-peter mayer. i would like to thank him not only for this report but for all the work he has done in this parliament, and because this is probably the last report he will present, i wish to give my speaking time to him.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i'll take what most of you have said: it was too short a timeframe for a dossier like this, and we had time to deal with well over 600 amendments, the vast majority of which were very important and also very complicated because the subject is complicated. nevertheless, i believe that because all those involved have worked towards the objective of achieving greater consumer protection, the highest possible level of consumer protection throughout europe, and on the other hand have assigned clear rights and clear obligations to businesses, this has been quite successful within the time available and the possibilities we had. the new parliament can at any rate continue on this point, and i am curious to see what the new parliament and the council will do about compromises for the benefit of our consumers and also for the benefit of businesses. thank you very much for your kind words.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already done so. i believe that with the f-gas regulation we have added another piece of mosaic to the path towards climate protection. we can be proud of that. thanks to the reporter, bas eickhout, and the other shadow reporters! it was a difficult piece of work because there was a very wide gap of ideas between the innovative companies that were prepared for this and the other companies that didn't want to know about it. i think we have now also made some progress, some innovation in the european economy. the alternatives are there. we see that many supermarket chains have already installed the alternatives in their refrigeration systems. that's what air conditioning will be soon. and if we reduce two thirds of these gases, that's a good contribution to climate change, and hopefully it will be replicated around the world. i remember the debate on the maintenance ban. we have excluded small businesses and therefore small firms, so we have provided some protection for those who may have to make much larger investments without having the same effect. the social democrats would have liked to have set even more ambitious targets in annex 5, but it must be said that with a reduction of two thirds we have achieved a good result. i want to get back on the international stage. i was in bangkok with your cabinet for the parliament at the montreal conference, commissioner. the us wants to join, china wants to join, so to speak. it is not surprising that saudi arabia is against it and unfortunately so is india. and we have to work to get a global ban on f-gases, perhaps through the montreal protocol, but perhaps also through the kyoto protocol, through the next cop conferences.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the new f-gas regulation is certainly moving in the right direction, albeit with small steps and too little speed. bas eickhout's report was very good. the member states have again proved to be the key brakes on climate issues. in order to safeguard the profits of their own industries, they move slowly. one day, this consideration may be bitterly regretted. reducing f-gas consumption to 21% of today's value by 2030 is a goal that fortunately is moving a little further. in a few weeks, two major climate policy reports will be released by the world climate council. the impact of climate change and climate change strategies will be discussed. what was possible with hydrochlorofluorocarbons at the london conference in 1990, namely a broad ban, should be possible today for f-gases.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i would like to emphasize that the free movement of workers is an important fundamental right for people in the eu. i think we can all agree on that. our aim must be to protect workers from discrimination and to ensure equal rights for all workers in the same place. the positive aspects of this report - and i want to mention this specifically - are that it facilitates voluntary mobility, it is against discrimination, it calls for equal treatment in access to employment, working conditions, pay and social rights, it ensures health and safety at work and it creates access to continuing training. the report also stresses the need to ensure that national collective agreements are respected and that social dialogue is encouraged. so much for the positive side. the critical point i have to make is this: this again affects only a segment of the people in the labour market. for example, posted workers are not included. what's the reason? it is true that we must not confuse freedom of movement with freedom to provide services, but the reference to the posting of workers directive is not enough. the strategy of further promoting the mobility and flexibility of people in europe, of getting workers to where they are needed, is neither a magic formula for solving the crisis nor a lasting solution to the skills shortage. the current employment strategy is creating a patchwork of disparate rights and further fragmentation of the labour market, including the risk of brain drain. i say and we demand: finally, establish equal pay for equal work in the same place, without discrimination! that would be a step forward for a social europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to thank mrs bauer and all those involved for their really good work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the main problem is not social fraud, but entrepreneurs or criminals who often take advantage of the plight of immigrants: starvation wages, housing deductions, violations of health and safety at work, and the circumvention of wage and social standards. i am very pleased that the report focuses on information and advice, because the european union must provide sufficient funds under its funds to set up comprehensive advice centres for all nationalities. the trade unions play an important role here, because they know the interests of the workers and the local labour market best. i am glad that the compromise reached strengthens their role. the more mobility, the more counselling before, during and after the mobility experience. such posts can be provided, in particular, through the european social fund, but also through eures, through the border crossing service. this would also relieve those municipalities which are burdened by a particularly high proportion of eu immigrants. my appeal to some is not to make this labour migration within the eu populist. in these countries, which have labour migration, immigrants are of great importance to their labour markets.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council (20/21).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would be very pleased, mr barroso, if this last regular summit, the spring summit which you are preparing - at any rate i assume - would also give you an opportunity to take stock. the commission has been told too often in recent years that the crisis is under control. in fact, at the end of your second presidency of the commission, we are faced with a european union in which our societies are divided into many divisions - north, south, up and down. it works worse than it did five years ago and much worse than it did ten years ago. i would very much welcome your own contribution to this, to explain what went wrong. i would now like to focus on the debate on climate and energy policy and the question of the future viability of european industry. i have heard it said here and there that it is very difficult to have ambitious climate, environmental and energy policies in an industrial society. look at germany. this is a country that can be described as an industrial desert, because we have ambitious climate and energy targets. this economy in germany is obviously not coping, is no longer competitive because of ambitious climate targets. so who believes this nonsense? you laugh, i can't laugh at it any more, because this stupid interpretation is part of the european strategy! mr barroso, as president of the commission, you have obviously endured for a whole parliamentary term that we have made ambitious climate and energy policies with stavros dimas from greece and andris piebalgs from latvia. in this parliamentary term you have consistently worked with your people, for example with commissioner oettinger, to undo everything that has been achieved, and we have reached the lowest point in international climate policy and the role of the european union with the climate and energy objectives that your commission has presented. the renewable energy target is ridiculous, and the fact that there is no efficiency target, especially when you look to the east, is madness, is also strategically complete madness! how do you explain something like that? how do you justify something like that? they must correct in time - and this can only happen at this council meeting - all this irresponsibility in climate and energy policy, otherwise there can be no successful un climate summit in paris. with your goals, you've said goodbye to the 2-degree goal, the goal we've always stuck to, of how to stop destructive climate change. and you also laid out the idea that ambitious climate action can be linked to industrial, economic innovation. what do i learn at the moment from the conflict in crimea and from the conflict with russia? what else can i learn from the situation south of the mediterranean? that we need to put energy efficiency and resource efficiency at the heart of our strategies in a world of limited resources, where they are used to make policy, where people are blackmailed. you, as president of the commission, supported by tajani and oettinger, have clearly rejected this.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome. they will be discussing the european semester at the forthcoming council summit, and will also be highlighting the positive impact of the results. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. my group has repeatedly called for lessons to be learned from the failure of crisis management. the economic recovery to which you have referred again and again today is primarily aimed at holding to account the victims of the crisis - those who have nothing to do with financial market speculation or tax evasion. the victims of the crisis are not affected by this economic recovery. the economic, financial and social disparities are simply too great. eu member states are suffering from brutal cuts in public budgets. they are putting the burden on those who have nothing to do with the causes of the crisis. on the other hand, the federal republic of germany recorded an export surplus of eur 199 billion in 2013 alone. this is the largest export surplus in the world and in the history of the federal republic of germany. commissioner rehn has referred to this and at the same time said that too little is being invested in germany. the role of the federal government within the eu is comparable to that of fc bayern in the bundesliga. both of them floating on top of the sausage soup. both are most closely linked to international finance capital. fc bayern is led by a president who, with enormous financial speculations and a tax debt of 27.2 billion euros, plays the moral apostle behind his back and gives arrogant advice to others on how they can, for example, shorten the competitive gap in the bundesliga. at the same time, angela merkel and finance minister schäuble also appear. and i'll say it again: one man's profits are another man's debts! the german recipe is only good for the german economy and only in the short term! if this is not changed, the european union will be the target of the next european crisis! the european semester has placed highly indebted countries under macroeconomic surveillance. why, i ask, is the federal republic of germany not also placed under macroeconomic surveillance and given clear instructions to drastically increase minimum incomes, minimum wages and massive sustainable investments? the summit will also address the commission's proposal for the 2020 to 2030 climate targets. i was shocked to find that no more ambitious, binding targets should be imposed on individual member states, and that there are no more statements from the commission on efficiency. i feel that this is a sad day because i am convinced that we can only face the crisis and the global challenges as an eu if we really face a social and ecological transformation, if we introduce social and ecological minimum standards and if we really enforce them in the interests of the people and the development of the european union!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. there is progress and progress is being made in the european union. that is beyond dispute. i don't understand how you can talk about the big problems now. we are seeing that in the european industrial and economic landscape we have a problem with growth and jobs. that is why we must address this question. the share of industry in the eu today was 27% in 1970 and is now 15.2%. clearly, there is a need for action! we must ensure that this deindustrialization does not continue to progress in european countries. only five countries have seen an increase in the share of industrial value added since 2007. only nine european companies are among the 25 companies with the highest turnover in the world, and the trend is downwards. there is only one consequence of this, and that is that we must take a little more care and a little more care about industry, about growth. and not by spending money, but by not following rules, not complaining unnecessarily. well, mrs. harms, i have to disagree with you. it is not a question of formulating ever new and ever more objectives and thus unnecessarily burdening industry, but of identifying smart objectives, smart projects, of making suggestions, of organizing support where government activities make sense - in research and innovation - of giving gas. the result of the policies pursued in recent years is quite capable of improvement. we need a cross-cutting industrial promotion, we need more competitiveness projects, we need a project, as the commission has proposed, with the aim of achieving 20% of industrial share again. i also found the project extremely good, to make a competition check on all the laws we are making here beforehand, to see whether this serves or harms the industrial development and the competitiveness of european industry.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the colleagues have already described very precisely how systematically russia was prepared to violate international law - the un charter treaties. the fact is that it is impossible to overstate that russia is also the power that is ready for a military invasion and a military escalation. no other power has been affected by this conflict, is ready to do so. what is most shocking to me, especially this year - 100 years after the start of the first world war - is that russia is also ready to use these crazy propaganda patterns of the last century to incite one people against another, mercilessly, if you look at the propaganda of russian media. how is europe coping? we have too often suggested, mr swoboda, including in the debate with president yanukovych, that the european union is somehow powerless. that was not true of yanukovych. and that's not true of vladimir putin's russia, either. 75% of russia's foreign trade is with the european union. we don't need to get into a military conflict to make it clear to russia that if it wants to isolate itself, that isolation will happen. we do not need to increase this trade, as you have just described it, with gas. we have other options. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the maastricht treaty. so far, the russian side has refused to join the round table. the osce is even prevented from becoming active in crimea for observation. so there has never been such a clear rejection of all diplomatic efforts! that means for me that this side of the sanctions must be clearly prepared, and they must be designed in such a way that it becomes clear that we do not want to hit the russian people, but we want to hit those who are responsible for this escalation. and finally, we know that european countries have exported arms to russia without end. that italy, germany and france are ready today... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! russia has committed a violation of international law. there's no excuse for that. this must be clearly stated. the referendum in crimea is contrary to international law and violates the ukrainian constitution. that's why it can't be legitimate. there is also no justification for the russian action, because we have legitimate institutions in ukraine, and because there has been no persecution of the russian minority in ukraine. we should see that the will of a people to freedom is of crucial importance, that for this reason the sovereignty of a people to decide its own destiny is of paramount importance, and that we should no longer - as mrs zimmer says - have the grand geostrategic idea that peoples must ask others what they are allowed to do. this is the 19th and 20th century! we have multilateral organizations that need to be supported. the oecd cannot get in there. that is a loss that is there to be noted. we have to see what will russia really has to build its own power, and whether it wants to stay with crimea or build a new empire. let me make one final remark: i thank the commission and the european council for the swift signing of the association agreement and the unilateral pro-ukrainian implementation of the free trade agreement, for the adoption of the support package and for the fact that this is to be expanded together with the international monetary fund and others. i welcome sanctions to show russia its borders... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. crimea is part of ukraine, ukraine is a sovereign nation. russia's actions are in violation of international law. it is unacceptable. my group, the liberals, have been insisting in recent weeks on keeping the channels of dialogue open, we have been advocating détente, diplomacy, and we must note that russia has not accepted this offer, but is continuing to fuel the tension. and this is no longer just about crimea. this is about security and stability throughout europe. this is the european security order of the osce, this organization invented by hans-dietrich genscher. and its core principle is that borders can only be changed by consensus. if we do not do this now, sanctions are inevitable, accounts must be frozen, properties must be taken off the market, and sports must be taken up. russia has the 2018 world cup. we'll have to test this. and i ask fc schalke 04 to go to augsburg on friday without the gazprom logo on the jerseys to send a signal that it can't go on like this. we can't do business as usual. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. our relationship with russia cannot continue with business as usual that has already been said. it is therefore right that we will decide this afternoon not to hold our next meeting of the partnership and cooperation agreement in perm in 14 days' time, to talk about culture as if nothing had happened. but we have to keep talking. it is our task, especially at this time, to make our position clear to our russian colleagues and to look for common ground. when, if not in such times, does such parliamentary cooperation or at least such an exchange make sense? secondly, the people of ukraine must be able to count on us, and they will be able to do so. but we must also be able to count on the transitional government to do everything possible to involve all parts of ukraine and all groups of the ukrainian population in this process. (the president cut the speaker off) )
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. solidarity, determination and readiness for dialogue in all international fora - these are the clear messages we expect from the european union to the russian leadership. this is also what the people of ukraine expect, whose government is reacting exclusively peacefully to the occupation of crimea. the european union must not be allowed to become a mere speculative instrument of the world economy. unlike the old soviet union, putin and co. are very vulnerable in two areas. first, if the ruble and the stock market collapse, mr putin will personally become poorer every day. secondly, they have taken much of what they have appropriated to the west for security. this is where the sanctions must start. if we withdraw from the relevant decision-makers, including spouses, their permanent visas to the west, to which they have no legal right, if we close the accounts with funds of dubious origin, if there is no more shopping in baden-baden, nice or london, if even the dacha in jūrmala near riga is out of reach, then within a very short time there will be enormous pressure to change thinking. we must not allow actions that violate international law to pay off.
the competent italian authorities informed me of the election of mr giovanni barbagallo with effect from 11 march 2014. mr barbagallo is hereby appointed to replace ms francesca barracciu. pursuant to article 7 (1) of the act concerning the election of the members of the european parliament by direct universal suffrage and article 4 of the rules of procedure, parliament takes note of the election of mr giovanni barbagallo with effect from 11 march 2014. i welcome the new member and remind him that, in accordance with rule 3 (2) of the rules of procedure, he has full rights to take part in the meetings of parliament and its institutions as long as his mandate has not been examined or any challenge has not been found, and provided that he has previously declared in writing that he does not hold office incompatible with the exercise of a mandate as a member of the european parliament.
thank you very much, mr. audy. i'll inform the president accordingly.
the next item is the voting time.
rapporteur. - mr president, just a few words. let me say to you that we are having a very important vote. it is on the single data protection regulation, and i thank the shadow rapporteurs of all the political groups very much for the fact that we have reached such a fair consensus and a very good compromise in this house on the data protection regulation. let me call once again on the council to come up with a general approach. after two years of negotiations, we can expect that to happen so that we can present european citizens with a good regulation which protects the fundamental right to data protection and creates a digital single market. (applause)
member of the commission. - the commission is making a statement on the issue of the contracting authority in copernicus and has sent a statement to this effect to parliament’s services for the records of the plenary sitting. we would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work.
- i'm not going to. i always watch. usually a few will rise. if only one person gets up, it's not often that many people come. moreover, if i understood correctly, there were hardly 40 colleagues who voted against it in the vote afterwards. i'm trying very hard.
mr president, as an addition at the end of paragraph 24, which deals with the religious issues, we suggest the following sentence: ‘calls on the yargitay court to reverse its decision converting the historic hagia sophia church in trabzon as a mosque and push for its immediate re-opening as a museum’.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is only a question of adding a date to a meeting for the sake of completeness. it's about the last meeting in arkhangelsk in november 2013. so, technically, just a supplement.
in writing. - the legislation on nanomaterials in this house started with an own-initiative report in 2009. in various other dossiers, such as the cosmetics regulation, the food information regulation and the biocides regulation, for which i am responsible, we have always voted for the labelling of all nanomaterials across the political groups. in this delegated act, the commission is removing this labelling of nanomaterials from food additives. the commission is clearly overstepping its bounds here. the food information regulation clearly requires that nanomaterials in food additives be labelled with the word 'nano' in brackets after the ingredient. i therefore rejected the commission's proposal and voted in favour of the resolution. i do not want to over-label where it is not necessary. i am not opposed to technological progress in the food sector either. but i want us to make it transparent for the consumer and i want the political will of the european parliament to be implemented in the delegated acts as set out in the regulation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. just a few days after we significantly strengthened air passenger rights, we are now providing transparency and legal certainty for package and connecting flights. in a balanced way, we are promoting the interests of both consumers and tour operators. this is in keeping with the modern times, with the increased availability of services and information, especially on the internet, and it is a great boost to europe as a tourist destination. the benefits will be felt by travellers and smes. we have considerably extended the obligations of organisers to cover hotel costs when force majeure situations make additional nights necessary. this provides protection and safety for the consumer in the event of a stranding. we also want travellers who are prevented from taking a trip in the event of unexpected and unavoidable circumstances to be able to cancel that trip free of charge. this also applies to price increases of more than 8% by the organiser after the conclusion of the contract. the tour operators and intermediaries will be given a legal framework within which to operate and develop economically.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. our citizens have a right to their data to remain confidential. we must not be deceived by this principle. the nsa's report defines the protection of privacy and the protection of citizens' personal data as a fundamental right. that is why the epp voted in favour of this report by a majority. but it is wrong to question all the transatlantic agreements in order to achieve our objective. the european union is also committed to ensuring that european law applies to all data relating to european citizens. the eu-us framework agreement is needed to ensure equal or enhanced data protection standards on both sides of the atlantic and to align the legal protection of eu citizens with that of the us. the epp wants more comprehensive data protection, but not at any price. we are not prepared to abandon our existing security standards. the detection of terrorist financing is an important tool in combating and financing terrorism and serious crime. the tftp agreement has nothing to do with uncontrolled mass surveillance. we therefore reject the call by the left-wing groups for the tftp agreement to be abrogated. the fight against terrorism and organised crime is as important as data protection. so i want to be clear here: the left-wing groups have spoken out in favour of data protection but against protection against terrorism. we believe that this is wrong and irresponsible. we have voted in favour of this report because we want to protect the data of our citizens from the intelligence services, from the big companies, from mass surveillance. and to protect them in the long run, we need to re-frame our privacy laws.
in writing. - the nsa investigation report defines the protection of privacy and personal data of citizens as a fundamental right. european law must also apply wherever data of european citizens is processed, and therefore the early conclusion of the eu-us framework agreement is necessary to ensure equal and enhanced data protection standards on both sides of the atlantic and to bring the legal protection of eu citizens on an equal footing with that of the us. this is another reason why this report is an important step in the right direction. we need more privacy, but not at any price. we are not prepared to abandon our existing security standards! the detection of terrorist financing is an important tool in the fight against the financing of terrorism and serious crime. the tftp agreement also has nothing to do with uncontrolled mass surveillance of data. the epp rejects the abrogation of the tftp agreement. the fight against terrorism and protection against organised crime are as important as data protection. i voted for this report because we want to protect the data of our citizens from the big corporations and the internet giants. in order to better protect eu citizens' data in the longer term, we should abolish safe harbour, re-establish data protection laws and adapt them to technical developments.
in writing. - the resolution is clearly critical of the appalling developments in turkey, in particular the restrictions on freedom of expression and the press and the brutal police violence against peaceful demonstrators in recent months; but how anyone can talk of progress in the reform process in the face of turkey's devastating setbacks is a mystery to me. the demand to open further negotiating chapters is also completely wrong. turkey is already the world's largest prison for journalists. with the new internet law, facebook, twitter, etc. can now also be banned. this makes free speech impossible. the corruption scandal, the seizure of investigative files and the removal of investigating police and judicial officials from office also show that the turkish government does not want a rule of law, independent judicial system of european standard. and with its policy of denial towards cyprus and its disregard for the territorial integrity of this eu member state, turkey is flouting international law. the call for further negotiations is irresponsible because it reinforces prime minister erdogan's policy of arbitrariness. the only language that erdogan would understand would be the immediate freezing of the accession negotiations. that is why i voted against the motion for a resolution on the progress report on turkey.
the committee on budgetary control, which is consultative, has adopted an opinion. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the commission is our point of contact in the troika. i would like to begin by thanking the commission, and in particular commissioner olli rehn. it is a living example of a confidence-building measure for the euro. as chairman of the committee on budgetary control, i would like to point out that the narrative - for example, from the left side of the house - that the financial crisis is the cause of the high levels of public debt is not true. even before the financial crisis, 16 of the 17 euro countries had failed to meet the maastricht criteria. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european taxpayer has shown considerable solidarity with the countries in crisis. in the crisis countries, enormous efforts have been made to bring about structural reforms. the way is right. we have to keep moving. however, democratic control must be strengthened. we in the committee on budgetary control demand that the esm be accountable to the european parliament in future.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on constitutional affairs. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the campaign is already determining the interests of the troika reports. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. can there be economic stability without social stability and without democratic legitimacy? i say no politically. there is nothing above the dignity of man. no political objective can legitimise the plunging of millions of people into social misery and social exclusion. but i also, as the author of the opinion of the afco committee on the econ report, answer this question with a clear 'no'. i am glad that a majority of the committee voted in favour of a position which has also been included in the econ report. this position is that the eu institutions are bound by eu law in all their actions. the european union is not a lego box from which you can pick and choose what you like. eu law also includes the charter of fundamental rights, which is valid at all times and from which it follows that financial stability must never undermine social stability, the social model implemented in the member states and the social rights of people. the standard should be the standard for all actors in the eu, the member states and their national and european parliamentarians, but also for the eu institutions, whether they are deciding on economic policy arrangements or on aid to ukraine. i promise you that the afco committee and i will continue to do so in the interests of the eu.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. madam bizzotto, are you not prepared to accept that the problem is not the euro but the excessive level of public debt, which must be reduced and that the only way forward is to return to growth? so say: better conditions for small and mediumsized enterprises so that we can return to growth and employment. the national debt must be reduced! the euro is not the crisis, but the public debt is the cause of the problems.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we must think again about what is cause and effect. the troika is not the cause of the problems, but the solution to overcome the problems created by the states themselves. why did a country with wrong numbers seek to join the euro area? why were there two member states of the european union that created a banking sector that had volumes that far exceeded the level of their own country's gross domestic product? why have we had member states that have lost massive competitiveness in the ten years of their euro membership because they had exaggerated wage developments that were far higher than they had productivity gains? and then to say that the troika is to blame for the fact that the things that the states themselves have done wrong have become obvious and are now being solved is an unacceptable approach! who is talking about the three countries in the european union which are not part of the euro and which have been bailed out by the international monetary fund in recent years? the latvians, the hungarians, the romanians - everything seemed to be going well, even though these countries had to go through severe austerity programmes. but if it had not been the troika, then you have no right to talk about it here. and now it is being said that the european stability mechanism should be subject to democratic control by the european parliament. i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, who is responsible for the money? but not the european union, not us, about the representation of the people in europe, but the member states, who have given guarantees here! the democratic control of the national parliaments of the euro-countries is therefore sufficiently guaranteed. this is the right approach that we must continue to follow. the troika has brought good, not bad, to europe! (the speaker agrees to answer two questions under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank mr ferber. are you aware that the european stability mechanism cannot be controlled by national parliaments and that it is only thanks to the efforts of this parliament, the committee on budgetary control and the german bundestag that at least the european court of auditors and, in turn, the national auditors can look into the behaviour of the european parliament? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to monitor the implementation of the budget. that is what our committee is about.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i am not in a position to answer mrs kadenbach's question, since she has only made a statement and has not been able to put a question. mr theurer, you know, of course, and you yourself have pointed this out, that the german bundestag, the parliament of my country, exercises its powers of control very intensively, that the federal minister for finance has to report regularly to parliament, and that any commitment by the federal minister for finance can only be made after it has been given legitimacy by the german bundestag. and that is the approach to democratic control that i want. and he could be an example for the other eurozone member states to do the same and to ensure that there is also transparency about the decision-making processes here and what the taxpayer has to pay for. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that cannot be the intention, and that is why i reject it categorically!
i have to say, madam president, i would like to make a point of order. the fact that mrs kadenbach has tried to sneak into the list of speakers by announcing herself before mr ferber has spoken is against the rules of procedure! i ask you to prevent that from happening in the future. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i'm sure what we're doing here will be of great entertainment value to the audience upstairs. but arguing about the colours white and blue is certainly not much political content. nevertheless, we should perhaps deal with the subject today with a little more seriousness than we did in the speeches of my german colleagues, where i think we have already made some progress in the discussion. i find it fascinating that on the one hand, the black-and-white debates are always being raised - there are those who want to throw money out the window, and the others are those who call good saving good. we have already gone so far as to say that we have different countries with different problems, and that we have to respond to them differently. and, mr theurer, it was your then minister for economic affairs who recognised the need for a marshall plan for greece. yeah, well, let's take him seriously. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and we are taking seriously the question of a marshall plan for greece. and we're taking structural reforms in these countries seriously and giving these three things the equal weight they deserve, and not unilaterally giving weight to a point where even the international monetary fund has now recognized that it was maybe a little too much of a good thing. let us discuss these matters in a differentiated way, independent of the european elections. the countries deserve it!
i have to say, madam president, in my view, the troika has done an indispensable job. the troika has been successful in difficult political and, above all, economic conditions, as the completion of the programmes in ireland and portugal, among other things, shows. without european aid and without the support of the troika, the economic and social consequences in the programme countries would have been much more severe and, above all, unpredictable. the parliament's report rightly points to the causes of the economic crisis in the programme countries, which are primarily due to a lack of budgetary discipline, macroeconomic imbalances and also to a delay in national countermeasures. in the end, there is always the possibility of arguing about the legitimacy of the troika's work. but one thing is certain: at european level, their role is enshrined in the esm treaty and also in the so-called two-pack. the adjustment programmes shall be drawn up and negotiated with the member states concerned. the commission's cooperation with the european central bank and the international monetary fund, which is of course also very experienced in these matters, is important for analysis and finding solutions. the ecb and the imf must be able to participate in future. the reform programmes lay the foundations for future healthy growth and stabilisation of economic and social conditions. if anyone here in this house wants to blame the troika, and in doing so completely ignores the causes of the crisis, he may perhaps campaign in the programme countries, but he is not fighting for our european idea. the idea is based on national responsibility and solidarity. these include a sustainable economic policy, continued debt and deficit reduction, and deep structural reforms to improve competitiveness. this is what is important for europe, for our future and, above all, for future generations!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what is the troika's role in greece? it is closing down small and medium-sized businesses. four out of ten commercial enterprises go into liquidation when they have already closed at least one hundred and fifty thousand. it's shutting down jobs, with 1.5 million unemployed. it's shutting down the dreams of young people. 67% of young people are unemployed. it puts a lock on health; in the united states, the infant mortality rate alone increased by 43%. it is closing the door on the very lives of the greeks. suicides have doubled. and now he's putting a lock on every small business owner. under the new tax law, for a simple accounting error, a small business owner can end up paying up to 43,000 euros in fines. the troika puts a huge lock on the entire country every day. this policy must stop now. the troika is the key, not greece!
i have to say, madam president, the commission, the ecb and the imf have initiated numerous reforms in the euro area programme countries. the attempts to blame the troika for worsening working conditions, job losses or social exclusion are unacceptable. the devastating economic and financial crisis has intensified many negative developments. social security systems are still underfunded, measures to combat tax evasion are still insufficient, and the youth unemployment rate is between 30 and 50%. and those who do find work often have to do it part-time, with pay cuts, as a sham self-employed worker or in the informal economy. years of unbridled debt and a bloated public sector are the main causes of misery, have led to economic downturn and record unemployment. the employment committee hearing on 9 january, in addition to criticism of the troika, also gave clear indications of economic recovery in the programme countries and prospects for new jobs. i very much support one passage in the cercas report. public health and education spending should not be seen as a cost factor but as an investment in the future. the troika is not a firebrand, it is a firefighter. the work must, however, be transparent with the institutions responsible for the community method, such as the social partners or the european parliament. we need a balance between fiscal consolidation, economic growth and employment. and if citizens feel that spending cuts lead to long-term positive developments, if the timeframes for implementing reforms are appropriate and if we have impact assessments for policy action, then they will - as the irish example shows - bear hardship very well. so let us at most give the member states more flexibility, but let us not change the rules of the game and give them more time to implement the necessary reforms!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have been facing one of the greatest difficulties or disasters for some time now and have described it in this way. we all agreed on that. then one of the biggest rescues that has probably ever been carried out has been successful in terms of the duration of the operation, the financial effort that has been made. and now we have nothing to do but to grumble about whether somewhere, maybe, some detail went wrong. i don't understand that at all. it was a good action, it was a good concept, and the result can be seen! of course, not everything is ready yet, of course there are still problems. it would be a miracle if all this were perfected in the shortest possible time. but i think we should really thank those who acted on behalf of the troika, who did not act on a whim, but on behalf of the eurogroup, who had clear objectives and acted. instead, there are political forces in this parliament who want to scapegoat these ladies and gentlemen who are acting for us and who are only playing tricks. i can't understand it. i think it's irresponsible too. without the programmes, without the work that has been done, many member states would have become insolvent. without the programmes, many countries might have collapsed economically and socially, might have been forced out of the euro zone, and other countries might have been put at risk, which can now be saved. i do not understand how a good instrument, a clever way of working, a reliable way of working which was correct in principle, even if it has been hacked at one point or another, can now be criticized, even if only partially. i urge you not to do that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i have to say, madam president, i am very grateful to mr feio because during the two and a half hours of debate he was the only greek and portuguese colleague who gave a positive assessment of the work of the troika. and i think that's fair, too. it was right to examine the work. i'm sure it was the right thing to do to report it. the report has raised many questions. i will not be able to agree in the end, i say that quite frankly. but what mrs ferreira - she is not here any more - has just said, that populism is taking root here, can really be seen in the speeches on the left of this house. it was nothing more than populist. and i've rarely heard such populist economic and political nonsense as in this debate today. this is a matter of concern to the commission, and i would like to ask the commissioner to give us an answer to that question. when mr. zapatero was here in 2010, there was already 35 percent youth unemployment. the troika had not yet been invented. there are national reasons for this and the national responsibility must be borne by the member states. the troika, which was an emergency solution, cannot be blamed. it is not that there is a lack of democratic legitimacy, because the legitimacy for spending national taxpayers' money is provided by the national parliaments. if the national parliament has not been sufficiently involved in one or another country, then you should discuss it in that parliament and not with us. the troika was necessary, and in principle it was the right thing to do. it is not a permanent solution and it is not responsible for washing away the national failings. and i think that if we are going to be open and honest with each other, we must conclude that without the troika there would have been a disaster. the troika has stabilized the debtor countries. in this respect, a thank you to the troika is the right response at the end of this report today!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. our annual resolution on the un human rights council in geneva identifies the main issues and situations in countries that should be actively addressed by the eu and its member states in geneva. the countries concerned are mainly syria, egypt, libya, tunisia, palestine, israel, bahrain, saudi arabia, iran, russia, belarus, uzbekistan, the central african republic, the democratic republic of the congo, eritrea, mali, south sudan, sri lanka, myanmar and the democratic people's republic of korea. the resolution covers the main issues and demands that we also addressed in our parliamentary resolutions and hearings in the subcommittee on human rights last year, such as the abolition of torture, the death penalty, caste discrimination, children's rights, the rights of women and girls, the use of armed drones, to name a few. once again, the close links between the human rights policies of the european parliament and those of the other eu institutions and the human rights bodies of the united nations are becoming clear. their reports and the results of their investigations often determine the technical aspects of our work. and we should not fail to support the un human rights bodies in geneva, politically and financially.
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the presidency of the council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i am glad that we have managed to put a reasonable multiannual financial framework in place. on the other hand, i share the view of my colleague dominique riquet that the financial resources of the two funds are too low in relation to the other. the commissioner has already mentioned that the initiatives relating to north africa, to supporting the establishment of functioning asylum systems and mutual assistance mechanisms will suffer, and that is regrettable. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. if i look at the cross-border drug trade, human trafficking and many other issues, the need for very close cooperation between many nation states and the expansion of the instruments of the european union, then unfortunately these funds of 3.3 billion euros will be far too scarce. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, at eu level we have very little money to spend, and therefore we should spend it well. by creating two big funds we might save some administrative costs, but we should not let that lead to a blurring of the different priorities. we have to ensure that enough money goes to supporting refugees’ rights and also ngos that support those refugees. we greens do not think that we should use the funds to finance dubious policies and activities in third countries. we should not forget that human rights and development are at the core of foreign policy. home affairs money should not go against those aims. in the internal security fund we do not agree with the focus on surveillance and, as the council calls it, ‘fighting illegal migration’. this language already shows how little importance the council gives to human rights. it is unbelievable that we reserve eur[nbsp ]1.1 billion for ‘smart borders’ – a system for which we do not even have a legal basis and one which we all know is most likely going to cost more than eur[nbsp ]1.1 billion. eu money should go to asylum and supporting migrants and not to a ‘fortress europe’.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to thank commissioner malmström for the merger of the funds and for the initiative to make them more effective. that's a very good approach. i hope that these funds will finance and enable many innovative new projects to be created. because just as the reasons for people to flee are different, just as people are different, so too must the solutions be different - sometimes local, sometimes european. we cannot impose any thought blocks on ourselves here. we must see that we work together in europe, launch new projects and find ways, also through best practice, of integrating people in europe on the one hand and on the other hand perhaps also returning them to third countries, but also giving them a chance to find their way back to life. the term circular migration should not be entirely unfamiliar to us either. i hope that new, innovative ideas are really coming out of this and that we can support these projects with this money.
rapporteur. - mr[nbsp ]president, i should like to thank the commissioner and my colleagues for the opportunity of holding this exchange of views tonight on network and information security. herr präsident, frau kommissarin, meine damen und herren! der vorschlag der kommission kam relativ spät nach der sommerpause, aber das europäische parlament hat über den binnenmarktausschuss gemeinsam mit den mitberatenden ausschüssen itre, libe und afet zügig gearbeitet und ist zeitgerecht fertig geworden, um die erste lesung in dieser legislaturperiode zu beenden, frau kommissarin, weil wir davon überzeugt sind, dass die zielrichtung dieser neuen maßnahme absolut in die richtige richtung geht. das ziel, einen einheitlichen, in europa überall auf gleichem niveau liegenden fortschritt zu erreichen, bei dem die netzwerksicherheit, der kundendatenschutz ernst genommen werden – wir haben ja heute über die datenschutzgrundverordnung abgestimmt –, kann nur funktionieren, wenn es möglich ist, dass die netzwerke, vor allem im bereich der kritischen infrastruktur, die derartige daten beherbergen, am ende so sicher sind, dass die kunden und die verbraucherinnen und verbraucher darauf vertrauen dürfen, dass die daten, die sie dort hinterlegen, am ende auch sicher und geschützt sind. die vorfälle, die wir in den vergangenen jahren gesehen haben, von sony playstation über wire bis vodafone, haben ja gezeigt, dass auch große anbieter breiter infrastrukturen, die von millionen von kundinnen und kunden genutzt werden, gleichwohl anfällig dafür sind, dass sie von hackern bedroht werden, dass kriminelle machenschaften zunehmend zu einer bedrohung der digitalen sicherheit der bürgerinnen und bürger in der europäischen union werden. deswegen bin ich allen kollegen und kolleginnen, vor allen dingen den schattenberichterstattern, und anderen mitarbeitern in den ausschüssen dankbar, dass es gelungen ist, einen sehr stark zugespitzten und am nutzen für die verbraucherinnen und verbraucher orientierten bericht hinzubekommen. die zentralen ziele, die wir verfolgen, sind: zunächst, dass wir eine sicherstellung erreicht haben, dass sich diese richtlinie, die ja die erste richtlinie ihrer art zur it-sicherheit in der europäischen union darstellt, vor allem auf die kritische infrastruktur konzentriert. es gab ja eine reihe von überlegungen in der kommission, aber auch in teilen des parlaments, hier einen sehr viel breiteren anwendungsbereich zu wählen. ich will nicht ausschließen, dass in wenigen jahren dieser breitere anwendungsbereich kommen wird, ich glaube aber, dass zu beginn dieses prozesses tatsächlich gegenüber der industrie und auch gegenüber den verbraucherinnen und verbrauchern, die die kosten zu tragen haben werden, deutlich gemacht werden muss, dass es hier vor allem um den schutz kritischer infrastruktur in der europäischen union geht. deswegen bin ich auch meiner kollegin pilar del castillo vera als verfasserin der stellungnahme des itre-ausschusses dankbar, dass es uns gelungen ist, diese kritischen infrastrukturen sehr deutlich herauszuarbeiten. zweitens wollen wir mit dieser berichterstattung sicherstellen, dass die bürgerinnen und bürger der europäischen union mehr transparenz darüber bekommen, was an cyberangriffen momentan in europa bereits vorkommt und wie sich die bürgerinnen und bürger der europäischen union einerseits am besten schützen können, wie sie aber andererseits auch durch die betriebe, denen sie ihre daten anvertrauen, die stärker in netzwerksicherheit investieren müssen, geschützt werden können. darauf haben sie einen anspruch, wenn sie in der europäischen union im bereich des digitalen binnenmarkts ihre daten hinterlassen und ihre zahlungsabwicklungen vornehmen. die beste richtlinie kann nur funktionieren, wenn sie von der industrie aktiv angenommen wird. dafür haben wir die voraussetzungen geschaffen. wir sind uns aber andererseits auch darüber einig, dass am ende kontrolle nottut. deswegen haben wir verpflichtende sicherheitsaudits von externer seite vorgesehen für den fall, dass wir nicht davon überzeugt sein können, dass die unternehmen die ziele dieser richtlinie adäquat umsetzen. wir haben mit dem kooperationsnetzwerk der mitgliedstaaten für cybersicherheit einen wichtigen beitrag geleistet, dass die mitgliedstaatliche zusammenarbeit in dem bereich eines digitalen binnenmarktes zu funktionieren beginnt. ich bin sehr gespannt, was die kolleginnen und kollegen nun zu sagen haben.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the new communication technologies that we have are a beautiful achievement that allows a lot of communication that was not possible before. at the same time, of course, they also tempt people to put more and more sensitive data online, and this leads to the fact that some people also want to access this data more and more, because it is also more and more worthwhile. we have heard many examples. this has been so far that software in movies and even television sets can be used for spying. this shows how weak the security situation is in this area and how good and important it is that we tackle this issue with clarity and precision. it is right that the commission has put forward a legislative proposal here so that 28 member states do not adopt different regulations, but that a common approach is created so that this security system we need in this area really makes sense. in fact, we would need a worldwide system, but we may be a little overwhelmed to do so today. that is why it is good that we are putting in place a european regulation. the approach we have taken is also very good. it was right of the european parliament to extend the scope, going a little further than the commission had proposed. although you said earlier, mrs kroes, that you had some difficulties here and there. but we shall have time to discuss this again at the second reading. it is important that we make sure that we actually increase security on the internet and in information technology, so that consumers, citizens, can rely on the fact that they can use these communication technologies safely, whatever they are - be it mobile phones, the lovely tablet that you use for a lot of things, payment methods or when we watch television over the internet. we have to make sure that security is high here, and we have made a good first step forward here.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i am very grateful to the members of your house for their support and commitment, moving forward, for this crucial legislation. it is also a big step forward in a different mind-set, and that makes sense. now we must all engage closely with the council and make sure they realise the importance of the issue. today online security is a precondition for digital business models for our society and for european competitiveness. i am very much involved in the process aimed at adopting it by the end of the year, and i sincerely hope that you think likewise. reinforcing smart cooperation and effective coordination is crucial in making europe the most secure and open internet space. that should be our goal, and from what i learnt from the interventions of the honourable members it is something we have in common: joining forces and joining expertise, not only between industry and research institutes and governments, not only between the member states, but also between the services within the commission – and i am talking about enisa, the eu certs, europol, edps and several dgs which have their own responsibilities in the field of cyber-security. so it is also up to them to achieve such cooperation and join forces. fragmentation, mr president, should be replaced by smart synergy in the digital age, and people need to regain trust in technology with the legal safeguards that protect their interests. businesses can build on the competitive advantage of secure systems – and we have a challenge: we can be the best in class and our industry needs to step up (and is already stepping up) in order to provide those solutions. my ambition is to make europe the world’s safest online space, and i sincerely hope that we have that in common.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to go. ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your comments. perhaps i should like to begin by thanking our committee chairman, malcolm harbour. without his extremely constructive and conciliatory leadership of the committee, and above all his participation in the drafting of this directive - in this case as a shadow rapporteur - much of the work of the internal market committee over the past five years would not have been possible. i therefore wish to express my heartfelt thanks to the rapporteur for this, probably the last directive to be adopted by parliament under his chairmanship. the work of parliament is shaped above all by the fact that we create this constructive atmosphere. i don't know of any committee that works together in this way. it has also become clear that the level of agreement we have found in various talks is particularly high. it is particularly important that we fight with a great deal of unity, and also in terms of content, in the face of such new legislative progress. i would therefore like to return to what mr kalfin said, namely, what we are doing in the area of public administration. we have dealt with this question extensively. i think it is entirely justified that you should raise the point again. the reason we took him out in the end was that we felt that the nature of the business is that public administration has to pursue resilience concepts and make sure that it is resilient in every case. if the commission gives us examples of member states not being able to demonstrate this resilience, i am always ready to reconsider. but i think we should also take credit for the member states doing everything they can to be resilient in the public sector, and that we only change that if we prove otherwise at the end. but, as i said, the commission can still provide that proof. i would like to thank all my colleagues for that. mrs gomes rightly pointed out that there is a close link between security and foreign policy. the example of estonia a few years ago showed what cyberattacks, which now come mainly from the realm of organised crime, can do. that is why we must ensure that europe as a whole becomes safer. the report contributes to this.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. annual accounts and their audit reports are like a company's business card. they allow a critical assessment of the actual economic performance, allow comparisons and are the basic prerequisite for efficient financial services markets. but they also have a political dimension, as the financial crisis has shown. it has made clear the negative effects that lack of transparency can have. we europeans have an interest in seeing ifrss become global standards. we were the first region to adopt these standards and we hope that eventually the united states will join them. but to ensure that we have transparent information, two of the three groups that are responsible for developing and implementing these standards need to make changes. the report by mr philippe maystadt made this clear. he has asked the critical questions and he has developed concrete proposals on what needs to be changed. efrag, the first of these three groups, which has provided a great deal of positive impetus since 2001, is not always transparent. and it has not always been free of conflicts of interest, and it has not always presented itself as independent. we have to change that. and until that happens, we will reserve the right not to release the funds. the second group that still needs to be amended is the international accounting standards board in london, which is basically responsible for the development of ifrs. we must note here that he does not take sufficient account of the principle already mentioned by mr stolojan, namely that of caution, of prudence and of true and proper judgement, that is to say, fair and true. we hope that this will change in the future and that european interests will be better taken into account. this is particularly important when it comes to losses. if a company is in the loss zone, we have to look closely, we have to communicate this in time. and when that happens, accounting standards are like an early warning system. if we had done this earlier, the crisis might not have been avoided, but it might have been mitigated.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. i am glad that we are having this debate today because it will be my last speech of this parliamentary term and also my last report to the committee on the internal market. i would like to add that it is also a highlight for me, because this great result that we have achieved, we could not expect from the start. i also want to thank all the shadow reporters. without our unity we could not have put forward this forward-looking agreement with the somewhat hesitant council. coreper already agreed on 17 january, the imco committee has also agreed and tomorrow i will ask for the vote of the whole european parliament. one seemingly small detail has become a media sensation, namely, the common charger for mobile phones and other small devices. and the public approval is also justified. it is about cutting red tape and - perhaps more importantly - about avoiding waste. more than 50 000 tonnes of e-waste are generated annually. this will soon be over. there's also a piquant backstory. the commission has already made efforts to find a regulation for uniform chargers. in 2009, a voluntary agreement was concluded with 14 leading producers, but it only lasted until the end of 2012. that is why we members of parliament have taken the initiative. and that's a good thing. i now expect constructive cooperation from the manufacturers with the commission, with the new parliament, to find new innovative solutions. and i would appeal to those who may be returning after the elections to watch the situation very closely, because the member states should certainly be interested in this solution, but i actually trust the members more that they will bring this to a reasonable conclusion. mobile communication has great potential for the future. we have heard that in the debates. but even more important is the smooth operation. and i want to list some other results that we have achieved, which are not insignificant. on the one hand, consumer protection: consumer organizations will be fully involved in the future in the periodic evaluation. we have achieved a modernisation of this law by adapting it to other existing directives. it is an efficient tool to prevent interference between different devices. we have achieved more efficient market surveillance so that we can also more easily check and register centrally the product groups that are negatively affected. we have a simplified common rule for declaring conformity. it should be noted that some of them have only been able to achieve a conformity of 30 to 50% so far. the new scheme also simplifies matters for smes. we have incorporated basic safety requirements into this draft, as well as health requirements, because many citizens have already become concerned about health protection because of the increasing use of electronic devices and their possibilities. but this law will also - and this is our concern in the committee on the internal market - significantly improve the competitive position of the european electronics industry. so it's a win-win situation for both of us.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, allow me first to thank parliament for its constructive role, which has enabled an agreement on a proposal for a radio equipment directive. in this context i would like to thank the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and in particular its chair malcolm harbour – and, of course, the rapporteur, ms[nbsp ]weiler. the number of mobile devices and wireless applications has grown spectacularly over recent years and continues to show enormous potential for further innovation and expansion. however, the sustained growth also creates a new risk of interference between the various devices on the market. examples of non-critical interference include disturbance in commercial radio reception or reduced speed of internet access through radio local area networks. more critical interference may affect manufacturing processes or even the safety of live services such as aeronautical, navigation and public protection services. to enable this sector to further expand we need to ensure increasingly efficient use of the limited resource which is radio spectrum and to strengthen confidence among producers and users in our regulatory framework. this is why the commission proposed revising the directive on radio equipment and telecommunications terminal equipment, which establishes a framework for the placing on the market and putting into service of those products. the proposal aims to make sure that all market players comply with the rules for the avoidance of interference. the commission also proposed that the directive be clarified and simplified to facilitate its application to some specific cases and eliminate unnecessary burden. the text which you are going to vote on tomorrow includes very positive changes in those areas. firstly, clear and harmonised obligations for manufacturers, importers and distributors which make the overall regulatory framework more consistent and easier to apply, with lower costs, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. secondly, improved instruments for market surveillance, in particular the traceability obligations and the possibility of requiring prior registration of radio equipment within the categories affected by low levels of compliance. i know this point has raised some controversy. some people consider that systematic registration of all radio equipment, as is practised for example in the us, was a solution to low levels of compliance, while others consider that such an obligation meant an unjustified additional burden. i believe that, with the amendments introduced during the interinstitutional discussions, it is clear that this instrument is to be used as a measure of last resort to target specific categories of products, and that therefore it is proportionate. thirdly, deletion of unnecessary administrative obligations such as the prior notification of radio equipment using non-harmonised frequency bands. last but not least, i would like to refer to the possibility of requiring certain categories of radio equipment to be interoperable with accessories such as chargers. you know that our action to ensure that mobile phones are compatible with a common charger has been welcomed by eu citizens, and i would like to thank you again for your support. the commission has launched a study to assess options for follow-up, including a new voluntary industry agreement and legally-binding measures which become possible on the basis of the radio equipment directive. another area where interoperability is of concern is access by mobile phones to galileo, which improves the accuracy and reliability of many services, including emerging services. the directive provides the legal base to require such interoperability. mr president, the dialogue with parliament and the council has allowed us to reach a good compromise which supports further innovation and growth.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'll remember four things. firstly, i should like to recommend mr wim van de camp for the order of leopold of belgium. i do not know whether i am in a position to make this proposal on behalf of the epp. but i'm going to look into it, because i think he did an excellent job as a shadow reporter. secondly, i would like to express my sincere thanks to mrs barbara weiler for her extremely constructive and non-ideological work in this committee over the last few years, not only on this report but also wherever we have been able to maintain a very good dialogue and cooperation between the various groups. i would like to thank her very much for this, also on behalf of my group. i can promise her that we will follow her wishes and keep the legacy of this report alive with uniform chargers and other technical details. thirdly, i would like to point out again that as a representative of the black forest and swabian alb constituency, i am of course very familiar with the black forest cherry pie. if this is really the pinnacle of what we are going to achieve with this directive, then it must be something very special indeed. we usually add a shot of schnapps to the cake. we might not want to do that tonight. it is a very good report. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their work.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, excellent cooperation can lead to a successful outcome and here, now, is the result of this legislative revision. we strongly believe that the radio equipment directive will improve the conditions for further innovation and growth in the area of radio equipment for the benefit of citizens, companies and public users. in a spirit of compromise, and with a view to reaching a first reading agreement, the commission will not stand in the way of an agreement between institutions. it therefore welcomes this compromise package and looks forward to its rapid adoption. however, the commission does have some concern over the competence of the committee set up by this directive and has sent a statement to this effect to parliament’s services for the records of the plenary sitting. from now on – with ms weiler’s permission – my charger will be called barbara. (laughter)
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to go. i do not want to say anything more about the content. it's all been said. this is a fine example for the next parliamentary term, for the members, of what we can achieve as members of parliament if we work together. it doesn't mean we always agree, but it helps. i remember a few things a little differently from what the commissioner said at the beginning. but that's okay. these little contradictions can be. the decisive factor is the outcome we have agreed with the council and how it will proceed. i would like to take this opportunity, at this last minute, to express once again my heartfelt thanks not only to the shadow rapporteurs but to all the colleagues on the imco committee, because i have always felt at home in the debate there over the last ten years. it was a very exciting time. the imco committee is a very special committee. the colleagues will notice that too. i would also like to express my special thanks to malcolm harbour, whom i have met in a number of trilogies as being very constructive and helpful. i don't know, malcolm, if it's a great compliment to you to say that you're not anti-european. you should stay that way and work constructively for europe. i would like to thank all the members of this house who are thinking not only nationally but also in a european way, who are not talking down to europe but are constructively helping to shape it. together as the only supranational parliament to make policy with and for the citizens - that is my wish for the next five years! we still have two months. (applause from the centre)
member of the commission. - madam president, honourable members, this is an oral question consisting really of five parts. the first part concerns whether the best practices offered by existing bilateral chambers of commerce were taken into account when setting up these pan-european business centres and business centres in asia. this is a question about their coherence with existing support measures for these business centres. the answer is that the new pan-european business centres in china and thailand were designed following consultations with the member states present on the ground. therefore, it was taken into account. this was also after the mapping of all existing services on the ground in these countries. it also gave guidance for services with european value added when setting up the pan-european business centres. coherence is also ensured by the participation of existing management bodies in eu interventions, so this is also about synergy with other eu business supporting measures, such as ipr help desks, the market access database or the enterprise europe network. an explicit requirement for the establishment and design of new business centres – we call them pan-european – is to seek a synergy with all the existing support measures available on the ground. the second part of the question was on resource allocation, and here is the answer: in line with the amended ici+ regulation, more than 50[nbsp ]% of the eur[nbsp ]76.5 million available for priority 2 ‘support to economic partnerships and business cooperation’ should be invested in eight interventions; seven out of eight interventions constitute support for existing local pan-european chambers. as to the structure of revenue and cost coverage, the european business sector should contribute at least 20[nbsp ]% of the total cost. generated income should be the main source of co-funding for these bodies. of course, now we have a new generation of programmes for 2014-2020. the new partnership instrument, which draws on the lessons of the past, should – in synergy with the other available instruments – be directed specifically – and this was also a part of your questions – towards supporting smes. the diagnosis is very clear: smes have limited resources to advertise their presence in distant countries. i think the third part on added value has already been partially dealt with in the previous part. this is really what we were concerned with whilst setting up these bodies: the demand-driven added value. in addition, what we can offer is advocacy and facilitating access to high-level officials in those countries. this is especially targeted at small- and medium-sized enterprises. the fourth part concerns whether parliament’s recommendations were taken into account. of course they were. specific questions and specific parts of the recommendations were about setting up a coordination platform for the internationalisation of european union business. this coordination platform will be set up in the first half of 2014. as regards taking account of the recommendations for monitoring, evaluation and coherence – which i also mentioned at the beginning of my answer – this is a part of parliament’s resolution, and we can prove that they have been taken into account during the design of these bodies. as for budgetary allocation, the present ici regulation expired at the end of 2013. future interventions will be developed via the cosme programme and the other new financial partnership instrument drawing on the lessons and addressing specifically the needs of small- and medium-sized enterprises. this is my answer to the oral question consisting of five sub-questions.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. my group is always ready to help small and mediumsized enterprises to enter the market. it is therefore natural to support the commission's initiatives in this field. i would like to highlight in particular the market access teams, which have been set up by the directorate-general for trade and are working very successfully. but when the further proposal came to facilitate market access for european smes, especially in emerging countries such as india, china and thailand, through these european business centres, we made our support conditional on certain conditions being met: e.g. the target countries must be important markets for european companies, knowledge from existing member states' bodies should be used, a thrifty use of public funds should be ensured, and we wanted to avoid duplication of work between existing national bodies and the new european ones. i believe that the three existing centres have been extremely unsuccessful. take india, for example. the latest activity report of the business centre in india, which was sent to us in preparation for today's debate, lists at least 17 market access issues identified and channeled to the relevant policy making forums. if i understand this correctly, in the last six months, there have been only 17 requests to enter the market from this centre. if i do a generous calculation, with a budget of 20 million euros spread over 10 years, so 2 million per year, then in india, the cost of a single request is 50 thousand euros. the commission's proposal is not a good one. i am not going to go into the details of the budget. i would be very grateful if you could include this subject in your agenda. the report on the activities of the centre in china records up to 100 inquiries a month, and the centre in thailand, commissioner, has never really got over the problems of starting up. the closure of the centre is already being discussed in bangkok. european funds of 2 million euros for the period 2010-2014 were simply thrown away and wasted. the establishment of these european business centres in asia has clearly ignored fundamental knowledge or experience from the member states with existing centres. the commission also seems to have no desire to correct wrong decisions. i cannot explain to myself why, although none of the three existing centres is even close to fulfilling its mission, four more centres have been set up in malaysia, the philippines, vietnam and indonesia. this is obviously a case of quick facts. we in the european parliament were not consulted in advance either. this is unbearable! commissioner, please make sure that you do not create any more facts, but that we - please! - think together about how we can ensure the functioning of these business centres before we expand our activities here.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. sometimes current events are faster than the agenda of parliament. i am very pleased that there is an agreement on the management of mackerel. i am particularly pleased for the fishermen throughout northern europe who have been affected by this conflict. i am very pleased, but i must also make a few critical remarks. the fact that the mackerel war has gone on for four years without resolution is embarrassing for all concerned. it is a poor sign for international cooperation in fisheries if good friends and close partners in northern europe do not work together. no one wins in such conflicts. the fishermen who are no longer able to certify their catches with msc are left behind, and of course the environment is also damaged. the conflict with iceland and the faroe islands has grown ever wider over time. even herring fishermen in the baltic sea were affected, as they too could not have their catches certified until there was an agreement between the eu and norway on the shared stocks. the norwegian authorities have not yet submitted any evidence that the aid is compatible with the internal market. ladies and gentlemen, i do not presume to judge who negotiated too hard or which side should have given in sooner. i would like to say that we urgently need international mechanisms to resolve such questions fairly and cleanly and, above all, quickly. mackerel is not the first, and certainly not the last, fish to change its habitat, and therefore cause problems between the eu and its neighbours. we must therefore urgently launch initiatives in the coming legislature to improve international fisheries management. we need to be more present in mafac. and we should also contact parliamentarians from neighbouring countries, including norway and iceland. the same applies, of course, to our neighbours south of the mediterranean. we represent the people and the people do not want a war for money, but a sensible and prudent policy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. looking back to 2009, we all know that iceland was facing a state of bankruptcy and had asked the european union for help and wanted to join the european union, but we had defined clear conditions for this. the special rights that iceland has granted itself, namely the 200-mile fisheries protection zone, were also negotiated. iceland caught 130 000 tonnes of mackerel in 2010 in breach of all treaties, posing a major threat to the mackerel stock in the eastern atlantic. the fact that it is not part of the negotiations again clearly shows that it is going down a very separatist path. and we must take very strong action to prevent our fishing fleets from suffering even greater disadvantages as a result. the fact that an agreement has now been reached with the faroe islands and also with norway is very positive, although we must of course also see what has now happened to fishing quotas in non-eu countries. this, of course, also affects overall relative stability. it is very important that we have an agreement with norway. it is very important that norway also has clarity on the mackerel stocks, on its quotas, in the baltic sea, where we have common fishing areas, such as in the skagerak, kattegat or also in the nursery of herring, in greifswalder bodden and grabo. if the norwegians have now agreed, then the way is also open for them to fish these stocks to msy. the certification of the baltic sea ring by msc can also work in the future. this is a basic prerequisite for the fish to be marketed better, for our fishermen at home, including in mecklenburg-western pomerania, to have a better future. i was going to say that again in that sense. the result achieved here is also to be welcomed!
member of the commission. - madam president, after widening my horizon to fisheries, i now return to the budget. we are launching the procedure for next year. we intend to present the draft budget for next year in early june, following the council’s guidelines and today’s discussion of the guidelines in this house. this will be the second new financial perspective. it is good that there is already a legal basis in place providing a stable context for programming until 2020. i have to say that we fully share the priorities expressed in parliament’s guidelines document, which should be about jobs, growth and competitiveness in europe. what has, however, cast a shadow over the budgetary procedure for several years – and this is also likely to be a problem in the future – is of course the level of payments and our ability to deliver what we are promising. last year it took a big effort to reinforce the budget with payments of eur[nbsp ]11.2[nbsp ]billion. this was up to the ceiling, and that is why the increase of the reste à liquider was reduced to levels never seen before. there is good news as regards the reste à liquider in the area of cohesion. this was the main provider of outstanding commitments and has been reduced for the first time. however, on the other hand we have some softening of the rules, and for several reasons the commitment was not what we expected. the ceiling will be higher next year but we are starting with very low 2014 levels, which is not very encouraging. it should be mentioned that 2014 was eur 8.8 billion lower than the implementation of 2013, the last year of the previous financial perspective. so the problem, which has already been mentioned by the rapporteur, is that we have a backlog due to insufficient budgeting in previous years. therefore we should have a very tight budget for 2015, up to the ceiling. this will be our proposal, but it is not enough, so we should exploit all the flexibilities available under the agreed regulation on the mff. i am sure that this is essential for 2015, and it is also in line with the council’s guidelines, stressing that the 2015 budget ‘should provide the necessary resources to respect commitments already made and to implement the union’s 2015 priorities’. part of our duty is, of course, to stick to our promise concerning the reduction of posts in the european union by five per cent over five years, and we are fully committed to this. this also concerns the agencies. we have set up an interinstitutional working group on agencies, and this is a part of our cost-saving and post-saving exercise for the future. as usual, there are – as was mentioned by the rapporteur, eider gardiazábal rubial – unpredictable events or special needs, namely humanitarian aid. we have four high emergency areas for humanitarian aid, but we cannot move too much money from the other areas of heading 4 due to the unexpected developments in ukraine. this is a clear management of the shortage, and we should be conscious and flexible in our reactions. some promises for ukraine were made. this is now in the capacity of the budget and concerns loans covered especially by the guarantees from the budget. this is realistic and is not creating unrealistic expectations outside europe. i think it is prudent not to promise more than what is available in the way of tools in the european budget. i look forward to a constructive debate on the 2015 budget, announcing that this will again be, as is the case in the management of our national budgets, a kind of management of shortage.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are facing a huge challenge when we look at the 2015 budget. on the one hand, we are challenged by the lack of resources in the multiannual financial framework, as member states' debts currently stand at eur 23.4 billion, without the funds available to meet them. if we assume that the 2014 budget starts a little slower due to the new programmes although we must bear in mind that we have n+2 schemes and also n+3 schemes, which are expected to have additional requirements then we should finally face a big problem by 2015 at the latest. we have more challenges, namely the issue of youth unemployment, the issue of innovation, the issue that we often have short-lived small enterprises with low skills instead of high skills and long-lived small and medium-sized enterprises. unfortunately, we do not have a sufficiently targeted industrial policy that not only strengthens the european location with its jobs, but also strengthens the european location. we have had the courage to build an airbus and to design airbus as a european project. in the field of it, in the field of big technology, this would be the trend today. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we also have huge challenges in the field of organised crime and the fight against serious crime and terrorism. and in contrast to this - because the traffickers are from the organized crime sector - we have the problem of humanitarian aid, the need for development aid and neighbourhood aid, when we look at our ukrainian neighbours who are currently in urgent need of our support. this means that the challenges are great, and the scarcity of resources is at least as great as the challenges. we will therefore have to put a wide range of questions to the council in 2015. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in december. this applies both to defence and foreign policy, for example in the procurement of common technical goods, and to the coordination of development aid or humanitarian aid. the european union has a clear role to play here and must be supported by the member states. the member states must commit themselves to this.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. the 2015 budgetary guidelines are particularly about us implementing the eu 2020 strategy, i.e. sustainable growth, and they are about managing the crisis. i would like to say, from the point of view of the greens, that too much money is still being spent on agro-industrial agriculture and also on mass livestock farming. we believe - and that is why we have tabled an amendment - that genuine new competitiveness can only come from a change in thinking, namely that we must support measures, projects and small and mediumsized enterprises that, above all, decouple growth from co2 emissions. that's the big strategic task in the economic policy of the future, not to promote traditional growth, but to really get to a paradigm shift where we decouple carbon emissions from growth. that would mean that we have new products with which we can compete in the internal market, but also in the world market. we would thus also be creating new jobs and, above all, doing something about youth unemployment. unfortunately, this has so far been lacking in the approach for the 2015 budget. we've just heard about the dramatic problems we're having with unpaid bills from 2013. there is now a gap of 23.4 billion euros, and it will be pressing on us all the time in the next few years, and limiting our ability to act massively. we already have acute payment problems with humanitarian aid. the disastrous financial situation of the union is another example of this. it could be 400 million short by the end of the year. the peace and stability instrument is also facing massive defaults. then it was announced - and i think it is very politically correct - that we must support the new government, the democratic government in ukraine. but we need fresh money for that, too. the council will therefore have to act if we are to be able to send clear political signals. it is understandable that the financial statements foresee such a small amount of payment appropriations for the multiannual financial framework. worse still, the council has cut foreign policy by 16%, because we are already seeing what it means that we lack the resources to do so in all the hotspots of crisis in the world where we are supposed to be providing support. so what is the political consequence? we need a lot more fresh money. we need to raise the payments. and above all, we must insist that full flexibility be extended to both the flexibility instrument and the contingency margin.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs eider gardiazábal rubial, for her excellent work. i believe that we as the european parliament have presented very compact, very concise and concise, but very clear guidelines for the design of the 2015 budget. we believe that this budget can be a key to overcoming the crisis by providing more money for research and development, by focusing on the structural funds, which we can use to create jobs and growth in the member states. in 2015, projects will start under the new multiannual financial framework, under the new multiannual programmes. we have set the legal framework for this in good time. the key now is to have enough money to finance projects in the member states so that european added value can be created. this is putting pressure on the member states! many in this round have pointed out that we are deferring a mountain of unpaid bills that has now reached the worrying figure of 23.5 billion euros. the european union may not take on debt, and that is true in theory and in practice, but the fact is that we are delaying payments, so that we are at least taking on debt on time. this is the fault of the member states, which are not prepared to pay the bills for the projects they have themselves carried out. the solution would be a genuine system of own resources for the european union. i can well imagine that the working group set up after the negotiations on the new mff in this area will reach results that make the european union more independent of the payments made by the member states by creating a genuine system of own resources. the financial transaction tax could be a first step. at the same time, we have a situation - as many colleagues have already pointed out - in which the heads of state or government are enthusiastically deciding on new projects which the european union should implement, but at the same time they are not prepared to provide the necessary money. we see this in ukraine today. i am of course in favour of helping these people, but as a householder i must be allowed to ask: where does the money come from? the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter. this is particularly bitter when at the same time we are being asked to be thrifty by various parties - including this house! i have not given up hope that this year we will find a common solution with the council to take account of the financial needs of the member states, but also to provide sufficient funds to adequately finance the projects agreed upon jointly. i look forward to seeing how you'll turn this square into a circle.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank mr van dalen for his report. do you not think that your remarks are nonsensical in that they are not just being done with less eu money, but with the right and concerted spending of eu money in the right direction? does this mean that it is much wiser at times to use synergies between member states at european level, rather than each member state individually making its own soup on certain issues and ending up spending much more money, when you could do more together with less money?
madam president, is it not possible to vote en bloc until motion 28 is passed? (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. nobody would think of playing football without a referee. we introduced the euro at that time. we have had enough rules of the game, just like in football, but we have simply and painfully forgotten to introduce an arbiter for these rules of the game. a lot of mistakes have been made. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. the troika then had to repair this damage. there have been inconveniences, there have been unpopular decisions, but i would like to stress again that the mistakes have been made by various governments before. and it is not fair to then, as it were, blame these mistakes of the past on the troika. and secondly, if you look at the final results - my colleague kelly from ireland has just mentioned it - you can see that overall the troika has done a good job. the public finances are returning to the path of virtue, and that is how we must continue!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this gives me the opportunity to speak again about my colleague mr stadler. i would say, firstly, that we agree that high unemployment is destabilising for society, particularly when it affects young people. we must do something politically intensive and urgent there. secondly, we must also remember - and i repeat this - that we cannot put everything on the shoulders of the troika, which has specific tasks. it is up to us - european policy is called for here, the european parliament is called for here - to combat and eliminate unemployment by investing in the economy and in smes programmes. and i have to say, thirdly, i come from the east of germany and i can understand the situation a little bit. it is a very difficult long journey, of course. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's the simple thing that's so hard to do.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have to say, i'm very pleased that we've found closure today, partly because it's been a very long road. since 2012, this is the place where the negotiations are taking place. of course, besides the verbal part, it's always about money. the medium-term financial planning had to be secured. i think we can all agree that there is a great need to improve cooperation in the prevention of, and fight against, crime and crisis management in the european union. i have had a key experience in this context. the simplest questions are usually the hardest. i asked: is there any statistic that proves that people who enter the european union with an official visa leave our european union on time? is there a record of this? the answer was simple and poignant: no. it is only noticed when the person does not return to his original country of origin. this shows that we still have many reserves in the mutual networking and cooperation is absolutely necessary!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i've been in this house for 20 years now. in these 20 years, i have always fought for a common immigration policy and above all for burden sharing. i submitted a report in the 1990s in which this house voted for burden sharing. we need a division of labour and a division of financial burdens. we need solidarity. but right now, only the one who's most affected is screaming, and the other one is washing his hands of innocence. later, it was the other way around. we are not going to get anywhere as a community of solidarity.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for the green amendment against mr schröder because he is the best paid of the useful idiots in the current propaganda show the kremlin is putting on in crimea. crimea is not governed by the democratic majority of ukrainian russians living there, but by a three percent party! the so-called prime minister of crimea got three percent in the last elections in crimea! and it is persecuting the democratic majority of ukrainian russians, crimean tatars and other minorities living there in a way that is extremely dangerous. it's all about keeping a face, as i heard today. mr putin can easily save face by withdrawing from the neighbouring country, granting it the right to self-determination and stopping his illegal invasion of an independent european country!
in writing. - i did not vote for the resolution on the russian invasion of ukraine, which was adopted by the european parliament by a majority on 13 march 2014. the european union's failed foreign policy towards ukraine and russia is thus being cemented. further hasty pushing forward of the eu-ukraine association agreement without russia's involvement is not helpful, it exacerbates tensions and makes the eu even more of an interest-driven party to the conflict. instead of courting potentially corrupt politicians like yulia tymoshenko, practicing subservience to the us and seeking to align with questionable political parties in ukraine, we need to revive the dialogue with russia. the current confrontation is leading to a dead end. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome.
a writer. - mr president, i have to go. our resolution deals with the harsh punishments against demonstrators in bolotnaya square in 2012 who exercised their right to freedom of assembly. the trial was very clear that it was not a fair trial and that it was a sign of how to deal with critics. even after the verdict was announced, the prisoner alexei polichowytsch was brutally beaten by a policeman in the moscow court when he asked for a copy of the verdict. he was then transferred to the prison hospital. it is very important that the eas focuses on all those who are convicted and imprisoned for political reasons. these cases need to be addressed in the eu-russia human rights consultation processes. since 2012, russia has had a so-called "agent law" that requires organizations that receive financial support from abroad and are considered by the authorities to be politically active to register as foreign agents. this restrictive law is the obvious attempt by the authorities to further restrict and discredit the work of those who dare to report on human rights violations. now, across the country, civil society organizations are facing significant pressure, threats and incitement campaigns from the authorities. i appeal to the eas to work with the highest priority to get this bill repealed.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not we all want a democratic russia which accepts and applies human rights. russia is our most important european neighbour and an important member of the council of europe. but we must not allow human rights to be ignored any longer. and love is a human right, and same-sex relationships should no longer be ostracized and punished. the psychiatric treatment of people who are peacefully demonstrating is a deprivation of liberty and a violation of human rights. but we also think that the protests against environmental destruction are far too little on the agenda. the destruction of habitats is also a violation of human rights, which we must keep on repeating and putting on the agenda. nevertheless, we must not allow the crisis in crimea to disrupt the dialogue. i think that the dialogue is all the more important now. we must instead seek dialogue with governments, but even more so with civil society.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in fact, the systematic violations of human rights in russia are linked to the invasion of ukraine. as a bavarian old austrian, i am not a bismarck fan. but bismarck said it well, "you can do anything with bayonets except sit on them". that's exactly what it is. mr president, i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for his reply and for the fact that he has not been able to give us a reply. and the suppression of the opposition is also linked to the fact that there is a free russianism in ukraine, which is beginning to orient itself in a european, democratic way. this attraction is also feared by those forces which are now systematically wreaking havoc in eastern ukraine on behalf of the kremlin. that's why we support the freedom of the ukrainians and the russians.
mr president, i have to criticise the president of the european parliament for having declared inadmissible in the discharge report a paragraph of the committee on budgetary control, namely paragraph 47, which deals with the way in which the president himself acted in the dalli affair when he did not forward to us a report of the committee on budgetary control's inquiry until months later, and also an invitation to ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
i would like to know on what legal basis the president is simply putting this out? the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it must be possible for a member of this house to put a humble question to the bureau of this house!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. today we can be really proud. what we have achieved together is a very concrete step forward for patients in the european union. many researchers, many doctors and therefore many patients have been waiting for years for us to reduce the red tape in cross-border clinical trials in the european union, because that is the only way to do good research. this is especially true for institutions that are independent of the pharmaceutical industry, like the german cancer fund in my country, which uses donations, and they say they don't want to spend the donations on bureaucracy, but really on research that helps the patient. we are succeeding - congratulations to glenis willmott and all the others - in creating more transparency. negative clinical trial results can no longer be swept under the rug. at the same time, we have managed to maintain the strict ethical standards we have had in the existing directive. we have corrected the commission here, and i am particularly grateful to commissioner borg for his support: the original proposal did not come from him. so there is a positive role for the commissioner-in-office. i would like to thank all those who have helped, the presidency, the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs. i think this is a good result and i hope to get a clear majority in the vote.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. clinical trials are essential for medical research and for the development of new and better medicines and treatments. the studies are primarily designed to detect adverse reactions to medicinal products before they are placed on the market. clinical trials are also a very sensitive subject. it is about important ethical issues, about transparency and about protecting at-risk groups: minors, people with intellectual disabilities, pregnant women. a european approach to the regulation of clinical trials is absolutely necessary. the studies are usually carried out in two or more member states. the current directive is lacking in clarity and has not been implemented in the same way in all member states. so harmonization is necessary. this regulation has helped us to reduce the administrative burden. the compromise takes into account the needs of all parties. without the approval of the ethics committee, no clinical trial can now take place. the clarification of the role of the ethics committee is an important change in the commission's draft. i thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their good work and i hope that we will have a good vote tomorrow.
member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank all those who have participated in this debate. let me once again thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their strong commitment and intensive work on this important regulation, which will foster clinical research in europe while ensuring a high level of protection. of course, if a proposal is good and is made even better by parliament, this does not mean that we had a bad proposal in the first place – it is just that this is the democratic process whereby a good proposal is made better. i will not wash my hands of the criticism that has been made against the commission by saying that i was not around when the proposal was made, because i have to defend the commission and also my predecessors. but let us take the ethics committees, for instance. it is true that in the original proposal, because this is a regulation, the commission did not want to impose any particular structure of ethics committees on all the member states, because different member states have different traditions. but when some meps and government ministers spoke to me on this issue, i immediately helped improve the text by referring to ethics, because i told all those who came to speak to me that i would be the last commissioner to remove ethics from the proposal. the fact that, because of the legislative process, improvements are made does not mean that the commission proposal was drafted by the pharmaceutical industry. i would find it very strange if that were so because, as i would remind members, the original commission proposal also had obligatory patient involvement in the assessment of applications. that would have been the first time that the pharmaceutical industry had required obligatory patient involvement. that was the original proposal, which was then removed, i believe, in the trilogue by the council representing the member states. i would also remind this assembly that in its original proposal the commission proposed national indemnification mechanisms free of charge for academic sponsors. unfortunately, as we said, politics is the art of the possible, and because of compromise we had to withdraw that particular proposal. i am just saying this to defend the original commission proposal which, i am pleased to note, has improved in the final text. i am very pleased to be present for the formal endorsement of a first-reading agreement on this important proposal which, i believe, will make it easier for clinical trials to take place in europe and not outside europe. this will also be to the benefit of research, which means to the benefit of european patients.
report: glenis willmott (a7-0208/2013) the commission underlines that it is contrary to the letter and to the spirit of regulation 182/2011 (oj l 55 of 28.2.2011, p. 13) to invoke article 5(4), subparagraph 2, point b) in a systematic manner. recourse to this provision must respond to a specific need to depart from the rule of principle which is that the commission may adopt a draft implementing act when no opinion is delivered. given that it is an exception to the general rule established by article 5(4) recourse to subparagraph 2, point b), cannot be simply seen as a ‘discretionary power’ of the legislator, but must be interpreted in a restrictive manner and thus must be justified.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, 2 april 2014, at 6 p.m. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the joint debate on the report by pilar del castillo vera, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on measures relating to the internal market for electronic communications and the achievement of a connected continent and amending directives 2002/20/ec, 2002/21/ec and 2002/22/ec and regulations (ec) no [nbsp ]1211/2009 and (eu) no [nbsp ]531/2012 (com2013) 0627[nbsp ]-[nbsp ]c7-0267/2013[nbsp ]-[nbsp ]2013/0309[nbsp ]cod)) (a7-0190/2014), the report by edit herog, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on measures to reduce the costs of the construction of high-speed industrial networks for electronic communications and on the implementation of the connected continent and amending directives 2002/20/ec, 2002/21/ec and 2002/22/ec and regulations (ec) no [nbsp ]1211/2009 and (eu) no [nbsp ]531/2012 (com2013) 0627[nbsp ]-[nbsp ]-[nbsp ]-[nbsp ]c7-0267/2013[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp03/0309[nbsp0]] (a7-01904]) (a7-0190149 (a0190/2014) on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and the council on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on measures relating to the internal market for high- and the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on measures relating to the measures to the reduction of the cost of the
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. cable operators and telecommunications companies have again come to us as members of parliament today complaining that, because of the demands for net neutrality, the internal telecommunications market, particularly on the internet, will not look as they would like it to in the future. that would be good. i think that we members of parliament are not the ones who are pushing for the maximisation of the profits of these companies, at least not when fundamental rights are being violated and freedom of information and communication are being completely ignored. the legal anchoring of net neutrality preserves the diversity of content. the fact that any content - from small or large providers - can potentially reach all internet users is the lifeblood of crisis-proof growth in the media and creative industries. i think and i urge that the alternative proposals that have been put forward be adopted by a majority in the plenary tomorrow, because that would really help to prevent a two-class internet.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. dear mr rohde, i have a question: is it not true that internet users are already paying money with their fees, that of course the providers are making money with this, that the eu countries have all invested huge sums in their households in the networks, in the infrastructure, and that now it is about selling this infrastructure, which was financed by users and by the states, by the governments, our households, to companies that can afford it?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would like to begin by thanking our rapporteur, mrs pilar del castillo vera, for her excellent work. the commission's report on the telecommunications package was adopted by a large majority in the committee on industry. this is good news because we have really spoken out here in parliament - and i hope that the compromise reached will be upheld tomorrow - in favour of further developing the digital single market. this is good news for the people back home. i particularly welcome the fact that there is broad support here in parliament for a roaming-free europe from 2016. it is not in line with the digital single market that we still charge roaming charges today. i am very pleased that this too is supported by a large majority. let me say two sentences on the hotly debated issue of net neutrality. let me say this: a look at the law makes it easier to find out what the law is in practice. that is also the case with the compromise which has been presented here. if there is a discussion here about introducing a two-class society on the internet and such, i don't know what texts you're referring to. the compromise reached makes it clear that this should not happen at the moment. nobody wants a two-class society in this house! everyone is for open internet access, everyone is with us for there to be no discrimination on the net, that you cannot differentiate between sender, recipient, type, content, device, service or ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the telecoms package is a very complex package of legislation with an unlikely great relevance to all citizens in europe, and in several ways. the first is that there will be no roaming, which is welcome by all. but just as important, if not more important, is the need to carefully create an internet environment that promotes and preserves cultural diversity, the great potential for innovation, especially in the creative sector, and the development opportunities for young smes, not just in the it sector. it is therefore necessary to define clearly a legal framework for internet access services and specialised services. specialized services must not adversely affect the quality of open internet access and must not replace it and this is explicitly stated in the text and in the compromises. we need to set the framework in such a way as to foster fair competition between services and content on the web and to ensure open, non-discriminatory access to the web for all users and service and content providers. the principle of net neutrality is an important key to this and this should be made clear in the text.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to point out once again that for my group the prevention of a two-tiered internet and the preservation of net neutrality are not negotiable. if large isps can buy preferential treatment of their content in data lines, then we see net neutrality in danger. i say this also in the knowledge that yesterday 150 000 signatures were handed over to us by a large network community in the federal republic of germany. i am speaking specifically for them here, and i say it again: we cannot afford to buy the important abolition of roaming to preserve net neutrality. we therefore attach great importance to the approval of the amendment tabled by the three groups.
the joint debate is closed. the votes on the del castillo vera and ulvskog reports will take place on thursday 3 april 2014 at 11.30 a.m. the vote on mrs herczog's report will take place in strasbourg during the next part-session. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the joint report by mr luigi berlinguer, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, mr juan fernando lópez aguilar, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, and mr carlo casini, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the mid-term review of the stockholm programme (2013/2024 (ini)) (a7-0153/2014).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the mid-term review of the stockholm programme for the creation of a european area of freedom, security and justice is now in full swing. since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the legitimacy of parliament's role as co-legislator has increased. we liberals therefore call for the abolition of the existing exceptions where the ordinary legislative procedure does not yet apply. the increased involvement of national parliaments has also proved successful. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the launch of the european citizens' initiative is a success, but there are still technical and financial obstacles to its successful implementation that need to be removed. we still have a lot of work to do to ensure the freedom of movement of european citizens, families and businesses. we can be proud of the succession and divorce regulations, but we have to wait for the two property regulations for married couples and registered partnerships, as well as the mutual recognition of civil status documents, which is particularly important to me as a notary, and of course the possibility of easy relocation of companies from one member state to another.
member of the commission. - madam president, honourable members, as you are all aware, ukraine is facing unprecedented political, security and economic challenges. at a recent meeting in brussels on 20 and 21[nbsp ]march, european heads of state and government repeated their support for the ukrainian people and their right to choose their own future. the european union stands by the ukrainian government in its efforts to stabilise ukraine and undertake reforms. in this context, the european union is pursuing further efforts with the international community to assist ukraine. european leaders expressed their commitments to uphold the sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine and strongly condemned the illegal annexation of crimea and sevastopol by the russian federation. on 21[nbsp ]march the european union and ukraine signed the political provisions of the association agreement. the political parts, and in particular article 2 of the association agreement, include provisions on the respect for democratic principles, human rights and fundamental freedoms, which constitute an essential element of the agreement. the commission will continue to monitor the political situation in ukraine closely. should the commitments under article 2 of the association agreement not be respected at any point, the commission will take appropriate action. the european union and its member states are committed to signing the remainder of the association agreement, including the provisions on a deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta) as soon as possible. the dcfta, together with the political provisions, constitute one single instrument. as part of a package of urgent measures to help stabilise the ukrainian economy, the european heads of state and government also urged the council and the european parliament to swiftly adopt the commission proposal for temporarily removing customs duties on ukrainian exports to the european union. these measures provide for an advanced implementation by the eu of the liberalisation of goods from ukraine, as we have foreseen doing under the dcfta. their growth value corresponds to roughly eur[nbsp ]500[nbsp ]million of duties foregone on imports from ukraine. the commission’s internal estimates of the economic impact of the measure indicate that it will boost ukraine’s income by around 1.2 billion per year, as well as contribute to an increase of ukrainian exports to the eu by one billion per year. let me be clear: these preferences are not meant to be a substitute for the dcfta. they are limited in time until 1[nbsp ]november[nbsp ]2014, as by that time we expect the dcfta, as part of the association agreement, to have been signed and provisionally applied. however, in order for these autonomous measures to be effective and timely as emergency support measures by the eu for the ukrainian economy, it is important that this proposed regulation is adopted tomorrow by yourselves and then, still this month, by the council, so that the tariff reductions can be in place in may. unfortunately we cannot afford a trilogue, due to these time constraints, and i trust that those of you that have a legitimate interest in the human rights angle will be satisfied by the assurances given with respect to the political provisions that are already signed. given the current political and economic context in ukraine, i do not think i have to convince anyone that time is of the essence here. i would like to thank you, the european parliament, for the efforts you have already made to speed up the ordinary legislative procedure of this important file, and i look forward to an interesting debate this evening.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are all following the current situation in ukraine with great concern. mr de gucht has said that we are deciding on unilateral trade facilitations for a maximum of six months, until the association agreement and the free trade agreement part come into force. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the fact that the european union is not a member of the wto. i would like to point out again that there was a group in the committee which did not want to grant these trade facilitations. i ask the left group, the gue group: what are the reasons for this? the european union has a duty to help ukraine, and i am sure that the european union will do so. i would ask you to reconsider your decision by tomorrow. secondly, we have motions on the question of the human rights situation. the commission has also made a very good point about the association agreement which has just been signed. but if i consider that the reality of life for the people of ukraine is very different at the moment, that we are at the moment, especially those who are campaigning for democracy and freedom in ukraine, still putting into doubt these amendments by saying something like 'well, perhaps you are not quite so clear about human rights and democracy after all' and that is why you are bringing these motions to the plenary, then i would be grateful if colleagues from both groups could think again about whether the motions should not be withdrawn by tomorrow. we all agree on the substance, and the association agreement clearly states that. i think that in this six-month measure, we can do without these requests.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i think we can't have different standards here. we have not here an emergency aid, but a trade policy instrument. i remember the case of pakistan, where people were in a state of emergency after a major flood. we have also said that we will not give the money without clear conditions in terms of human rights and workers' rights. i'm not one to play one situation against another. we must be consistent here and establish a clear link with our values, which we naturally also want to see implemented together with our ukrainian friends. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if you're going to do this, you have no legal basis. that is why we need these motions which we have tabled. and that doesn't delay anything. the commission and the council can say that they accept this, as they did in the case of tunisia with regard to macrofinancial assistance. there's no problem with that at all. we want the help, but we want to make sure that human rights, that workers' rights are respected. i therefore call on the commission and the council to support these socialist motions. then we can get this going right away.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i want to make it quite clear that my group will reject the proposal, as it did in committee. we know that ukraine is in dire need of financial assistance, short-term and in large amounts. this is not a new situation. this was the situation before the vilnius summit, and the question was whether the commission, the eu, was prepared to provide short-term, unbureaucratic assistance, yes or no. we did not go out and answer that question honestly, but we played politics in the self-inflicted geopolitical game of ukraine. and the people of ukraine have not had the opportunity to decide for themselves how they want to pursue their foreign economic and foreign policy orientation in the future. that's part of the package we're here to discuss today. i am not talking about macrofinancial assistance and support. this is again a package without the european parliament's co-decision power, where only the commission acts under article [nbsp ]213 [nbsp ]teu. but we're talking about the tariff reduction today. first, the commission determines, in its own interests, which products are exempted from the reduction in customs duties. secondly, we are talking about giving a boost to those ukrainian companies which affect the daily lives of the citizens. in the given commodity structure of foreign trade with ukraine, we are talking about economic oligarchs from the black metal, chemical and extractive industries, industries from the western, but also from the eastern part of the country 65% of eu imports. with the economic policy effect of the tariff increase in this area, which we estimate to be zero, the commission obviously aims with this customs policy to give a certain effect and support to the rather domestic policy objectives of ukraine namely before the presidential elections . and the sick hryvnia will eat up that tariff cut. thirdly, we are talking about the commission arguing that it is 500 million euros. in economic reality, however, this means nothing more than significantly lower purchase prices for european companies in times of slight economic recovery. and fourthly, we must discuss whether this tariff reduction can stand up to scrutiny under wto rules. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank mr scholz for his report. thank you for giving me the opportunity to ask a question. did i just hear you right? you were the leader of the vilnius summit. have you not noticed that between the vilnius summit and today there has been a political change in ukraine? have you not noticed that in the meantime parts of ukraine have been occupied by another state in violation of international law and partly annexed, and that perhaps the situation in ukraine today is different and more dire than it was a few weeks ago?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i'm sure i've noticed that. you also know our position as a group: we have clearly stated the violation of international law by the russian federation. of course, there is a further aggravation of the situation. but we must look at the development of this story and answer why we did not provide short-term economic aid in october/november, which might not have had any effect at all. i think we should not confuse cause and effect.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the discussion of the report on the protection of the european union's financial interests is an annual procedure. i wish we could do it with a better participation, because when i look around the chamber like this, i see few faces i do not know from the committee on budgetary control. i think it would be appropriate for more colleagues in this house to take an interest in this subject, especially those who have repeatedly advocated the protection of the financial interests of the taxpayers during the election campaign. i note that those who protect the money of the european taxpayer are the budgetary controllers of the european parliament, and they do it very properly on the whole. we have nevertheless the task of monitoring the commission in the way it protects the financial interests of the european union. against this background, it is welcome that the amount of recovery by the commission due to fraud cases in 2012 has increased to at least eur 444 million. these are the amounts of fraud against the european budget as we know it. these amounts are being recovered by the member states, ladies and gentlemen. i would like to see these sums remain in the european budget, not only as a budgetary controller but also as a budgetary officer. we are a little underfunded compared to the european union. these recovered funds shall be reimbursed to the member states. that should change. i would be glad if the member states were to take the same action in collecting funds in future.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. thank you very much, inés, for the good report. i would like to point out everything that is not in the report. but first, of course, i would like to welcome the greek presidency. we are pleased that you have come to show that fraud prevention is our common interest. there are many points in this report which are very important for us to discuss next week. we are very concerned about the state of the anti-fraud office because we have some points that have not yet been worked out. the annual report of the monitoring committee, which was presented yesterday, also helps to shed light on this. we must read there that the committee has still not been properly informed and can only work in a limited way. he has not been able to analyse cases that take more than ten months, although this is his legal duty. we both told him he had to do it. the commissioner has a real job to do here! then olaf still has no proper information on the progress of the closed cases. the member states are the main ones concerned. what do the european and national authorities do with the cases raised by olaf? we also find in the annex that the way in which olaf was reorganised - here we were in 2012 - is a reorganisation, but it is very frustrating when staff are not sufficiently trained, when they are constantly switching between fields of law and when there are no concrete guidelines for proportionality. it's a lot of work, even for the new ep. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you very much, mr president. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the discharge procedure is complicated, difficult, sometimes very political. so, at the outset, i would like to thank all my fellow shadow rapporteurs and their teams for their patient cooperation. i would also like to thank the commission, especially for the transparency. that was really helpful. has the european money been properly spent? the main message, and to all those who only want to see the negative, is 95% yes. in the vast majority of member states there are no significant problems. but it is also a fact that the error rate is increasing in 2012 for the third year in a row; 90% of the errors are concentrated in eight member states. and what is particularly irritating is that every year the court of auditors finds that the countries should have discovered the errors themselves. ladies and gentlemen, enough is enough! the audit procedures of some countries have structural shortcomings, and have for many years. this is a disgrace to our shared management system. we recognize the reforms initiated by the commission to increase transparency through the annual reports on the protection of the budget. the approximation of the sanction systems for agricultural and regional funds is also useful. but the basic problem remains: the commission relies too much on data which are already incorrectly supplied by some member states. and there are too many loopholes to escape punishment. the commission is not aware that it is its duty as guardian of the treaties to take on more direct responsibility. and in the council too, we need to raise awareness of the problem. we have therefore, for the first time, made the discharge conditional on expenditure in the problem areas of agricultural and regional policy. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. this includes a transparent commitment by the commission to increase direct checks on final recipients and authorities in the affected member states. we want binding bilateral agreements between the commission and the countries most affected to remedy this. we want a ceiling on the replacement of defective projects. we want to reduce the time taken to implement financial corrections, particularly in agriculture. the new president of parliament is to forward these recommendations to the candidates for president of the commission. the new parliament itself will press for binding commitments from the relevant candidates for commissioners. ladies and gentlemen, the protection of the european budget will thus become a priority for the next parliament and the next commission. finally, it is remarkable that what i feel is 95% of the discussion about my report was about the reservation, about this one word. the content of the report seemed to have no interest at all. it shows me that our annual discharge has become a blunt sword. it's a routine that hardly anyone notices anymore. at the same time, we are not solving the deficits. i want to say, dear colleagues from the red and green camps, that we are not going to sweep anything under the carpet. you don't want that reservation. the reservation is a new instrument of principle for us, a yellow card which makes our discharge conditions much more stringent. we have reached a technical and therefore political limit with our procedures. let us therefore take this new idea in a new direction. we would also have more flexibility for multiannual financial periods. that would be a first. i am speaking as a supporter of the european community. we must correct our own weaknesses and not leave criticism to those who oppose europe.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. i would like to ask you not to be confused, the rapporteur for the discharge is and remains cătălin sorin ivan. but he can't be with us tonight and he's asked me to represent him in this place. i also welcome the representatives of the european court of auditors who are here now and i would also like to express my pleasure that the council - this is really news - is pleased to be here with us tonight. we shall certainly be making a number of requests to you on the question of discharge to the council. ladies and gentlemen, the discharge is a sensitive matter. it is particularly sensitive because the institution is relieving itself of its burden at this point. we have a special responsibility as members of parliament. this responsibility does not imply a general accounting of everything and everyone, in particular of operations that have little to do with the discharge or with the 2012 financial year of the european parliament. but it's an election campaign, you see the intent and you're not happy about it. first of all, as social democrats, we are pleased that the parliament's administration has succeeded in at least squaring the circle in the 2012 budget year, i.e. in introducing structural reforms that can reduce operational costs, but at the same time allow for an improvement in efficiency and also fulfil the new tasks that have been assigned to this house in the context of the lisbon treaty. these are three tasks, and to accomplish all three is certainly a difficult task. in this context, the task of the discharge procedure is to ensure that the money of the european taxpayer has been used in the best possible way. it is therefore inappropriate to use this instrument to score points in the run-up to the european elections. in view of this, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is right that the president of the house has declared paragraph 47 of the adopted discharge to be inadmissible, because on the one hand the content has nothing to do with the discharge procedure and on the other hand the accusations as they are described are not at all true. we welcome the fact that the european parliament's security service has been reorganised and integrated into the administration. we hope that this will mean savings over time and we also believe that security in this house can be increased because the loyalty is now to the european parliament as an employer. this process should also be extended to the directorate-general for it. we think it might be possible to achieve the same effects here. we would like to see a central demand of my colleague, mr cătălin sorin ivan, in his report, fulfilled, namely that the events we generally associate with the names wikileaks and snowden give us the opportunity to subject the security architecture of this house's communications technology to external security review. i believe this will create the opportunity to expose security vulnerabilities. if we could tackle this, we would certainly be one step ahead.
adopted on 13december.the commission has decided to extend the deadline for the submission of comments to the council's opinion on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1612/1999 on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men andwomen in matters of social security. the commission is not i know this is not the night to bring all these people here and then deliver your speech on budget relief. the committee on the environment is very satisfied with the way the commission has implemented the budget in the environmental and health sectors. almost 100% of the possible commitments in the environmental budget have been implemented, over 90% in payments. the directorate-general for public health and food safety (sanco) has also done well, with 99.3% of commitments and 99.2% of payments. so the environment committee is satisfied with the commission, but not with the court of auditors. the commission has done for 2012 what it has done in previous years: it has dealt with the environment and health together with rural development and fisheries. this chapter has a 7.9% error rate, the highest ever! if you look closely, you can see: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is a misrepresentation of the public! we have already called for a change in this approach last year. we're doing it again today. we are also satisfied with the five agencies in our area of work and recommend discharge. i would also like to congratulate mr sarvamaa on his report. this is really excellent!
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. madam andersdotter, you criticised the fact that the president of parliament intervened in the discharge report and declared paragraph 47 inadmissible. given that it falsely claims that he denied a hearing. in fact, this was nothing more than the implementation of the decisions of the conference of group chairmen, which declared the subject of this hearing to be untenable because it does not fall within the competence of the committee on budgetary control: do you not think that the president of parliament has acted in this respect within the limits of his competence and correctly?
mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply, but i would like to ask you to take this opportunity to thank the commissioner for his reply. this discharge procedure comes just in time for the president of parliament to show the electorate how he feels about democracy and the rights in this house. he always says he is fighting for the rights of this parliament. i haven't been able to determine that yet. i can only say that he has curtailed the powers of this budgetary control committee in a way that no one has ever done before him and i hope no one will ever do after him. the rules of procedure are being used as a license to censor! i would like to comment on paragraph 47. we're here to criticize the way we've been hampered in processing the dalli case. this case took place in october 2012. and of course, that number refers to 2012, because both the dalli case and the two canceled hearings took place in 2012. and it was, of course, the president who suggested to the conference of presidents that these hearings be cancelled. so all i can say is, he's got to put on that shoe. maybe he has a problem with the fact that he's really got the wrong advisors. i believe that we will have to deal very seriously, and for a long time to come, when he is no longer the president of parliament but a simple member of parliament, with the consequences of his presidency. don't worry, there's still enough material for 2013 and 2014! i also criticise the political designations. i am particularly critical of the fact that the procedures for appointing officials and for appointing careers are being abolished, precisely because it is clear from the outset who is to get these jobs. the icing on the cake is a case that is not even in the report - don't worry, it will be left for next year's discharge procedure - namely the media intelligence unit. we've already got this case under review, if all the rules are overturned. i would advise the president of parliament to do what seven commissioners have done today, namely to resign because they are running for another institution. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under article 149 (8) of the ec treaty.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you very much for asking. we are dealing with five denominations. the previous president buzek tried to put his chief of staff in the parliamentary administration. that failed because she did not meet the criteria for contract staff. she's only been in the house eight years and didn't meet the criteria for a probation officer, so she could only be appointed as a temporary head of unit. we are now faced with the political appointment of a german social democrat member who has been a contract worker for two years and is to be appointed for life. i must say that such cases have not yet been made, otherwise it would have been a pleasure and a concern to criticize this. but because we haven't had it yet, what we have on the table now has never existed in this form and on this scale. and that's why i'm criticizing it. and i promise you that if anyone else does something similar, i will make it the same.
president of the european court of auditors. - mr president, allow me to make some concluding remarks. i believe that now is also the time to look forward. we are at the beginning of a new financial framework period that provides significant opportunities to improve the way the european budget is implemented. the points raised by some of the honourable members – i recall mr mulder immediately before me, and mr belder – refer to the member states’ declarations and the management declarations. these might be useful instruments, provided we can understand the work underlying them and they are based on reliable and good work. more than the form, i would say, we need to look at the substance. and, of course, if you apply international standards, we should look for the right material that would allow us to look at the 28 member states in the same kind of rigorous way as we look at the european union accounts and implementation of the budget. i will not provide today any comparative study, because i believe that would not be the aim. the discharge for the financial year 2012 shows, however, clearly that we need improvement, both at european and national level, in the operation of the control systems covering european union spending. but again, those systems must ensure that there is quality in the way you use the funds. we have to ensure not only that the rules are respected; we also need to make assurance that the funds are achieving the results intended – that is, that the european union budget is providing added value and making an impact on citizens. the court notes – and i was extremely happy to hear this from commissioner šemeta – the commitment of the commission to move forward in implementing the effective reform that is needed. we also note other points addressed to the court, which will take these seriously when it considers revising its approach to the next stage of the annual report. allow me to conclude by saying that we have very much appreciated working with this parliament over this parliamentary term, and we were very pleased to have worked over so many years with some of the members of this parliament and the budgetary control committee who are now leaving. i believe that, by working closely together, our institutions will improve the transparency and accountability to citizens for the results we are achieving with the european budget.
member of the commission. - mr president, thank you very much for the open and constructive debate. it confirms our common objective to ensure better spending and robust control and corrective mechanisms. of course, more work has to be done to further improve the management of new funds both at eu and at national level. good cooperation between the institutions and between the commission and the member states is essential to achieve the envisaged improvements. that said, there is no easy or simple solution to the complex problems identified in shared management, but it is not realistic either to expect that the commission will do the job instead of the member states. we will scrutinise the national authorities even more closely, focusing on the most risky ones and, where justified, we will go on-the-spot right down to the final beneficiary. however, we also believe in the potential of simplification and will promote it as much as possible to reduce the risk of error. finally, i do agree with the president of the court of auditors that the new reporting obligations on the member states will be instrumental in improving the sound financial management of policies such as agriculture or regional development. in this respect, the commission will continue to promote the use of national declarations. in regard to jan mulderʼs remarks, i can say that the template for the management declaration is in the process of being fixed and its likely content has already been examined in the working group. so i believe that we can continue our work and fix the national declaration templates in due time in order to allow our member states which so wish to use these templates as a basis for their national declaration. i heard some of you considering that discharge should not be granted to the commission because the error rate increased in 2012. let me say that the court’s assurance statement and its associated error rate is one annual indicator defined independently by the court. this indicator is important but it is not the only relevant one in assessing the commissionʼs performance in protecting the eu budget. once again, putting the court average error rate of 3.9[nbsp ]% over the four-year period 2009-2012 into perspective with the corrections and recoveries amounting to 2[nbsp ]% during the same period is worthwhile. that means that the net exposure of the eu budget to irregularities was less than 2[nbsp ]%. in fact, the error rate estimated by the court increased over the last three years, partly due to the court’s changes in methodology, but the preventive and corrective impact of the commission’s action increased as well. as in previous years, the commission will report after the summer on the implementation of all requests presented in the report. the protection of the eu budget and the good performance of our programmes are the two key factors in eu financial management. i can assure you wholeheartedly that the commission is committed to achieving improvements in both regards.
president-in-office of the council. - mr[nbsp ] president, this debate has shown that we share specific concerns and that we also have common goals and values. keeping eu expenditure under strict and robust control and ensuring the complete regularity of transactions is crucial for all of us. the citizens of europe expect us to be particularly attentive to the efficiency and transparency of financial management. i was glad to note that during the course of the year many efforts were made to improve financial management systems and to bring down error rates. but what counts more is our shared confidence that continuing improvements are possible if all of us – parliament, the council, the commission and the member states – work constructively together towards sound financial management and efficient control of eu funds. the council has proposed on several occasions, and has taken repeated initiatives, to formalise the relations between our institutions on the basis of a reliable, long-term system of cooperation in order to achieve mutual transparency and accountability. let us together send a clear message to europe’s citizens and taxpayers, as acknowledged by the court, that the quality of eu spending has stabilised and that eu funds are used with the highest degree of responsibility. our efforts over many years have brought visible results, and our calls for better management and control of funds have been followed up. at the same time, the commission and member states must still do more – and are strongly encouraged – to make an even greater effort to achieve our shared objective of achieving a positive statement of assurance from the court.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to go. that was indeed an interesting discussion. we've now managed to process 51 reports in 100 minutes. i think that's a negative record. that's not worthy of the subject either. we have here imposed a self-limitation which i find embarrassing, particularly in view of what the european taxpayer expects of us. we tried to extend the debate, but unfortunately it was not heard. i think it's great that the council is making a mark here today and is in such a strong line-up. so thank you very much for that, but it wasn't always like that. i would ask the court of auditors, in addition to the good work that is being done, to consider that this work could be much better and more efficient and easier for us if country reports were prepared and if we focused on countries with federal structures, germany would be included. i would really encourage you, mr caldeira, to take action in this direction. overall, to the commission, it has been a rather tough process. but we have given each other good arguments to make real progress now. i have to tell you that we want to help you to get more rights of access to the member states. you have us on your side. we can complain about this new possibility, as mr geier did. but we should take this opportunity. the signs you have given today, when you said: proactive action in the member states with auditing, two years of net financial correction as an absolute objective - i have written all this down - that you want to follow the risk approach in the member states in practice, these are encouraging signs! let us really continue to work in this direction so that next time we can perhaps discuss whether we should also seek multiannual discharge procedures, so that next time we can certainly remove any doubts.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. i will not spend my last two minutes on the discharge of parliament, but just so much: if there was talk here of no president like martin schulz providing his people with jobs now, i would just point out that one of these favourites - it was indeed the case in press statements of nepotism - has been the longtime diplomatic adviser to president poettering, the longtime diplomatic adviser to president buzek and also the longtime diplomatic adviser to the current president of parliament. so if you call this nepotism, we've come a long way! the presidency of this house, incidentally, unanimously decided two hours ago - and christian democrats are also said to have been involved - to continue all these recruitment procedures. i think it is a pity that the discharge debate is now less about how we improve the finances of this house and the commission and more about campaigning. mr staikouras a question you have got away with it quite cheaply with the council because we have not been able to deal with the council's discharge properly. but i would also like to say something to you: once again we have not relieved the council of its responsibilities. we are still in the process of negotiating with your institution to obtain documents which will give us a clearer picture of the budgetary management. we are now considering whether we can sue them. i would urge that we make progress on this issue in the context of the greek presidency, that parliament be given documents for its discharge.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. climate change is still one of the most serious problems of our time. the ipcc report last monday must make it clear to us all once again that we must act. air travel, with its enormous growth rates, is unfortunately playing an increasing role as a climate change driver, and we have to do something about it. but climate is a global phenomenon. we can only find a solution in the end if we act together with others. so the question we have to decide today and tomorrow is, what are the implications of what we are doing on this path to global unity? there has been some progress in the international debate on the climate impact of air travel. the international civil aviation organisation (icao) has committed to adopt a global agreement in 2016. of course, we should not be naive and think that this will work. but we should not say today that this is not going to work. the position of the committees in parliament and the council on this text has been extremely different. it was not easy to find a compromise at all. all sides have moved, and i too have abandoned my original position in the spirit of compromise. i would like to thank all those who have helped, the chairman of the committee, matthias groote, the rapporteur for the committee on transport and the shadow rapporteurs: although we did not all have the same opinion throughout the process, it was a good cooperation. i would also like to thank the commission, madam commissioner, and jos delbeke castillo vera, as director-general. in essence, the compromise is that we will initially limit emissions trading to intra-european flights for another four years, not to european airlines, but to flights also from third countries within europe. the full scope shall then revert from 1 january 2017 unless a satisfactory solution is found at icao. we've described very precisely what the solution should look like. it must reduce emissions and it must be non-discriminatory, which means that a second kyoto is not enough. now many say, this doesn't work anyway the icao has been discussing this for so long and nothing has been achieved; i'm skeptical of that, too. but if we can get an international climate agreement in paris in 2015, involving all countries and all industries, then we have a great opportunity to change the world. the pressure on the icao will then increase, and if it still fails to do so, then we have good reason to reinstate our original system. i believe that this scenario will affect third countries. the compromise is not perfect. but we have made a lot of progress with the council of ministers: the full scope from the end of 2016, and that is more ambitious than the commission's proposal. he only said airspace until 2020. we have forced the member states to finally implement the existing legislation, even though the chinese and russians refuse. the invoices were sent and we had to put pressure on them. the transparency of the allocation of funds is a great success. after a long process, parliament has now achieved something we did not have before: not only do the member states have to report, but the commission will report to parliament and thus to the public. i appeal to all journalists and ngos to use this tool. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the compromise is not perfect. but politics is the art of the possible. if you reject the compromise tomorrow, you must know that we are creating a great deal of chaos and that we are potentially driving the emissions trading scheme in air transport completely into the wind. in any case, it would be a heavy burden on the way to international agreements, including in paris, and that is why i ask for your agreement.
member of the commission. - mr president, emissions from international aviation represent a rapidly growing contribution to global greenhouse gas emissions. therefore, the eu decided back in 2008 to take action and to include aviation in its emissions trading scheme (ets). at the same time, the eu continued its efforts to achieve a global solution at the international civil aviation organisation (icao). nobody has worked harder for a global approach than we in the european union. arguably, without the eu’s continuous efforts, the agreement to develop now a global market-based measure (mbm) would not have happened at the icao assembly last autumn. this decision is, and must be, a stepping stone to the implementation of a global mbm in 2020. the next icao assembly in 2016 must therefore pin down the details of a fully-fledged global market-based mechanism for aviation. to facilitate these international negotiations, the commission made a proposal, immediately after the 2013 icao assembly, to provide for a further temporary exemption from the eu ets based on the coverage of emissions within european regional airspace. regrettably the council did not support the commission proposal and, as a consequence, parliament and the council came during to an informal agreement during trialogue discussions which limits the coverage of the eu ets to flights within europe for the period from 2013 to 2016. and the scope of the eu ets from 2017 onwards should be decided in response to the outcome of the icao assembly. without doubt, the commission would – of course – have preferred – and have fought for – a higher level of ambition. it would have been better for europe’s self-respect and reputation and even more important, it would have been better for the climate. but we are where we are. the compromise achieved provides a basis for continued european regulatory action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from aviation and will provide much needed legal certainty for all stakeholders before the compliance deadline. in return, we expect our international partners to recognise the flexibility and constructive attitude the eu is showing and now focus all attention on making progress and delivering a credible global deal on international aviation emissions by 2016. in that regard, it is worth emphasising that, in our contacts with third-country representatives, they too have already reacted positively to the informal compromise. i call therefore on members to turn the page and to vote tomorrow in favour of the compromise text without further amendments. i share some of the frustrations around this file, but not to find a landing zone will not make things better. not for the climate either nor for the environment. what is agreed between the council and parliament is what can be agreed at this stage. i think it would be wise to try and cash that in now!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not thank you very much to peter liese. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. that is the special thing, because he has dealt with the dossier before and all the groups have expressed their confidence in him. but in conclusion, we must say that last week in the environment committee we rejected the trilogue because the negative points simply outweigh the positive. europe is kneeling here before forces that cannot be precisely defined. climate policy in europe is highlighted in sunday speeches every time. but tomorrow we have only the choice between plague and cholera. we used stop the clock a year ago. we're doing it again. we had previously been presented with an airspace approach by the commission. i was very much in favour of this airspace approach. that would have been the right way! that is why i will support the result of the environment committee tomorrow, as will parts of our group, where we were unable to agree on a course of action today because, as i regret to say, it was not forthcoming. this story shows how divided parliament is here. i have to say that the whole procedure in parliament - that is, if you agree something with the commission beforehand, you propose something and all the people in charge promise the commission that you can do it, and a week later it all no longer counts - has nothing to do with reliability in this house! i think that we are generally - but the dossier here is also symptomatic of the climate policy as it is taking place here - muddled, processed and incoherent in place. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. either way, the choice is between the plague and cholera.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to express my belief that peter liese has reached an excellent compromise for the epp group, which ensures that the objectives we have set at eu level will also apply globally in the medium term. in principle, this is precisely the success that distinguishes the european union, because it has succeeded in 2013 in the icao to agree exactly on the implementation of what we have proposed from the eu, in the medium term, worldwide. if we succeed in doing so, it will be a great success. if you want to achieve such success on a global scale, you have to step aside once in a while to make global compromises possible. i therefore want to expressly support the fact that we shall be able to secure a majority for this trilogue result tomorrow. i know there are some who would have wished otherwise. but this step is taking us in the right direction. contrary to what mr groote has said, i do not think that this is an inconsistent step. backloading was a decision in a market that was very much european organized, where we made sure that we kept that european market functioning. this is a global market where european players face significant international competition problems. so it's a matter of coherence that we're evaluating different things differently here. peter liese is on the right track with his proposal. that is why i hope that we shall have a large majority for this tomorrow. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i must say first of all that peter liese negotiated for the environment committee and not for the group, that was unique. and secondly, you have just made a passionate plea for the airspace approach and for what the environment committee voted for, namely that we should not start internationally but at the borders of europe, that everyone should be treated equally there: european airlines and foreign airlines. why have we received so many letters from european airlines telling us to reject the trilogue result?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you. this gives me the opportunity to make clear again what i was unable to make clear enough to mr groote, namely that we are not dealing with a purely european market, particularly in the field of air transport. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as i said, icao has explicitly agreed in 2013 that it wants to go down this path. that's why it's the way i've described it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am one of those who, six years ago, when we first discussed this subject, warned that it might be too risky to go for european exclusive rights in airline emissions trading without even consulting third countries on the matter. we are at a dead end today and i just want to point out that we have no room for manoeuvre in the decision tomorrow. the reason for stopping the clock was that third countries threatened to take countermeasures if they were included in this directive. if we reject the compromise tomorrow, we will in fact be back to the situation before the stop the clock, which means that we will be obliged to include third countries fully in emissions trading from next month, and logically we will then find that third countries do not want to participate. so if you want to bury emissions trading - peter liese said it in a half-sentence - you should not agree to this compromise tomorrow, because we are heading towards a situation where we are adopting an eu law which will not be implemented, and at this point we can only warn. first of all, we are weakening our negotiating position both at icao and in paris at the end of the year.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. thank you for your comments. it's not like everyone doesn't have a grain of truth in their statements. i would like to take up what matthias groote said: tomorrow we will have to choose between the plague and cholera. you admit, dear matthias, that a rejection of the treaty is either plague or cholera, a deadly, dangerous disease. i warn you against making such a decision. i think we have a choice here between two evils, that's true. but as a doctor, i'd say, not between plague and cholera, but between the common cold and pneumonia. i am also disgusted by the council's blockade, by the obstinacy of third countries, but i know that if we simply say no tomorrow, we will be conducting a life-threatening experiment for emissions trading, for air transport anyway. we have to take responsibility. it is not helpful, jackie foster, to start the fundamentalist critique again. how are we to persuade undecided members to agree to the compromise tomorrow when we hear such a speech again? we are on the right track, and we must continue to promote, we must continue to fight. and we have a chance! i'm not so pessimistic that it doesn't work at icao. either we do this in paris, and there's gonna be a lot of pressure, and the world's gonna look different than it does today. or we can't do that in paris, and then air travel is not going to be the biggest problem for the climate, but then we've failed altogether. that's why i don't believe in failure. i believe in success. then we'll get on with this. that is why i am pleading for it, despite the pain in my stomach and the sniffles: to refuse is dangerous for life, to agree is not a celebration, but it means taking responsibility, and we should do that together tomorrow!
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, as this is our last discussion with baroness ashton, i would like to congratulate her for her service and her contributions and to thank her very much. baroness ashton, you are in charge of a cfsp budget of around eur 300 million annually. you are also in charge of the budget for the instrument for stability and peace (isp). those two budget lines form the context of what you can do with the external action service. here i want to sound an alarm about the implementation of the comprehensive approach that you have made your trademark. i want to raise one important issue in my capacity as the standing rapporteur for the committee on foreign affairs on the instrument for stability and peace. this instrument is in danger of running out of money by the middle of this year. under your direction, the external action service is doing its utmost to do its job and it does it brilliantly. it is planning to support the presidential elections in ukraine. at the same time it is working on helping the countries neighbouring syria with the issues of the refugees. the service is dealing with the outbreak of violence in south sudan with a peacebuilding mission. in the central african republic, the instrument for stability and peace will also contribute with an action focusing on communities at risk and policing. but, as i said, while the isp is where it should be, the money is not there to fund all these activities. if this situation does not change, this will deal a heavy blow to the credibility of the eu. in addition to what it has, the isp needs eur 58[nbsp ]million this year. i know that commissioner georgieva has been successful in securing eur[nbsp ]150[nbsp ]million in extra money for her budget. i would urge you to engage in a similar effort in favour of the isp. i can assure you that this parliament will support it, but time is running short. the last meeting of the committee on budgets that can deal with this issue is on thursday 10 april. please act to help make it clear that the isp is a core concern that we want to prop up together.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the report on the comprehensive approach clearly shows that the eu could be a positive actor with a positive impact on world peace it points out, for example, the great importance of poverty reduction and effective climate action, if yes, if some things were deleted from the report or policy and if it was not only about making the interests of the economy of our region the standard of action, if geopolitical ambitions were not the guidelines and if military power in foreign policy were deleted. the much-touted comprehensive approach always including the military component is described in the report as the eu's strength. all available resources and instruments in the fields of security and defence policy, economy, trade, humanitarian aid and development aid should be effectively linked. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. it is already common practice for the european development fund to finance training and military operations in somalia, mali and the central african republic, among other places, through the so-called 'african peace facility'. this is development aid, not a war fund! we reject this report and have tabled a minority view.
blue-card question. – did i get you right that the british veto is even more important than the british seat on the security council?
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. as vice-president of the delegation for relations with iran, i thank the rapporteur for her original, really good report. the fact that this was rejected in committee and that today there is only a 'broken' motion for a resolution shows that there is no real eu-iran strategy, and that it is not independent. the only real and important statement is that there can be no alternative to a peaceful negotiated solution with iran - our reason for not voting against this resolution. but everything else is half-hearted. the progress on the nuclear question is welcomed and at the same time applauded, mr brok, when it comes to fighting for the region as a whole to be free of nuclear weapons and thus secure lasting peace. the call for human rights dialogue is there, but not coupled with the clear demand for the abolition of executions, for the abolition of the death penalty in iran. what do you think about iran being asked to contribute to the settlement of the syrian conflict, the syrian war, without at the same time being asked to participate in the peace negotiations? all this is half-hearted, all this is too little! a resolution without a real approach to the necessary tasks is simply a repudiation of what has been achieved so far.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president! - what is it? we would like to have an oral amendment to paragraph 283 on a proposal from the afet. we would like to delete the last part of the paragraph, starting with 'commends' and we would put in its place: 'a modification of these programmes with the aim of a sustainable employment perspective and administrative improvement'. i hope you will agree with me that this has been discussed and announced with the political groups.
i have to say, madam president, the only thing that is now required in paragraph 284 is that we delete the word "further" after "to prevent" and replace it with "any possible". this too has been announced and confirmed by the political groups. i hope you can agree with that. if there are any questions, i'm happy to explain.
i have to say, madam president, i refer to rule 173 (1) of the rules of procedure. it concerns the following report by ctlin sorin ivan. the president has here, acting on his own authority, interpreted rule 20 of the rules of procedure in such a way as to strike out paragraph 47. i expressly object to that! this paragraph says that the committee on budgetary control criticises the fact that a report from the olaf monitoring committee to the parliament's committee on budgetary control was not forwarded to it by the president of parliament but kept under wraps for more than two months. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. it criticises the fact that the budgetary control committee was hampered in its work by the cancellation of a hearing on the work of the task force on greece and the delay of a hearing on governance the european commission as the managing authority for over a year. the president is elected to interpret the rules of procedure, not to use the rules of procedure as a censor! (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, i would ask that the final vote be postponed until the next strasbourg week. the president may consider whether we can still vote on paragraph 47. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, i am in favour of voting today on the discharge report as it has now been voted by the house. i would point out again that paragraph 47 has taken account of some of the decisions of the group chairmen of this house, for example, that hearings called for by the committee on budgetary control, which are not within its competence under the rules of procedure of this house, should not be carried out by the committee on budgetary control. the hearing took place after the subject matter had been changed. the question raised by mrs staes in the dalli case is one which has to do with the question of the protection of individual data. so the question is: do we do a campaign maneuver here and then postpone the vote, or do we not do a campaign maneuver and work our agenda and then vote today. (applause from the centre)
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 3 april 2014.
ladies and gentlemen, we all watch with great concern the developments in ukraine, which are becoming more serious by the hour, and which are certainly disturbing and extremely dangerous. i would like to reiterate that the european parliament, by a large majority, supports the unity, sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine. (applause from the centre) we have expressed in several resolutions what will certainly be the subject of debate this week: we do not recognise the illegal annexation of crimea. we are standing in the way of the ongoing strategy of dividing the country. we call on the government of the russian federation to respect international principles and to withdraw its troops from the ukrainian border and to refrain from any action that could destabilise ukraine. we are all aware of the responsibility and we welcome all the activities which help the ukrainian government to assert its authority in the country and at the same time to achieve dialogue in the country and to overcome the divisions. it is therefore equally important for us to continue to support ukraine in stabilising its economy, fighting corruption and closing the social gap in the country. i therefore welcome - and i hope i speak on your behalf - the council's decision today to provide the first billion in macrofinancial assistance to ukraine and, in addition, to grant it - as we decided last week - unilateral trade preferences. as i said, the house will be discussing this in plenary on wednesday and will adopt a resolution on thursday. parliament sends an election observation mission to the presidential elections on 25 may. i trust that these elections will be fair and free, and i hope that through these elections a new, hopefully peaceful chapter in the history of ukraine as a free, modern and democratic state can begin. (applause from the centre) the night of april 6 to 7, 2014, marked the 20th anniversary of the genocide in rwanda. i would like to remind the house once again of the figures: in 100 days, 800,000 people were killed, the vast majority of them women, children, a lot of babies. whole families have been wiped out by their neighbours and by those they considered to be their friends, for the trivial reason that they belonged to a different ethnic group. the world community looked the other way. i'm sure she didn't live up to her responsibilities. this crime, planned and carried out by human hands, can - we must be aware of this - be repeated at any time. yesterday it was in rwanda, it was in srebrenica. we don't know where it's gonna be like this next time. if there is a lesson to be learned from the rwandan genocide, it is that we must not look the other way. atrocities against one's own people are not the internal affairs of a state. those responsible for systematic human rights violations must be held to account. the same can be said of the dictatorship in syria. you cannot escape justice. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been active in the fight against organised crime. the rwandans have found their way. the country is trying to show the world that peace and reconciliation are possible. i would like to say to the rwandans on behalf of the european parliament that we want to support them on this path towards a peaceful and secure future for the country. rwanda is working on its past. we should help the country to punish the criminals and the criminals who have committed the great crimes. we should also help the country to find its inner peace through economic stability. the european parliament expresses its solidarity with the victims and survivors.
i am not going to go into detail. i have a sad news about the european parliament. last thursday, our former colleague dominique baudis died after a long illness at the age of 66. in 2011, dominique baudis was appointed the first french ombudsman and in this position he fought with all his strength for the rights of citizens and for equality. for many years he worked as a foreign correspondent in the middle east, later as a newsreader. in 1983, he succeeded his father as mayor of toulouse, a position he held until 2001. baudis was a member of the european parliament for three terms. many of you will remember this colleague as a man respected by all, who was generous and had an open ear to all. a man of dialogue, a bridge-builder, not least as president of the institut du monde arabe. it is also worth remembering that this man endured many difficult situations in his life, through public attacks that were attributed to him and later proved to be false. on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to express our condolences to his family and friends. our thoughts are with them in these difficult hours. i would ask you to rise in respect of the victims in rwanda and our colleague mr baudis. (parliament adopted the resolution)
thank you very much, mr stadler. i will follow up your proposal and start an appropriate investigation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. in accordance with rule 173 (1) of our rules of procedure, i would like to make the following point on behalf of the committee on budgetary control: we do not agree with the decision not to put paragraph 47 of the motion for a resolution for wednesday, which has already been voted on, to the vote. we do not see any legal basis under article 20 for this to be withheld from parliament. the letter we have received does not explicitly indicate which wording is contrary to which legislation. there is no legal authority for the president not to submit criticisms of his own person to parliament. we therefore ask that this decision be revised and that parliament itself then decide whether it considers this to be correct or not, so that there is practically no censorship and no disregard for parliament. i would like to reiterate the protest of the majority of the committee, and the members of the committee reserve the right to refer the decision to the european court of justice if necessary. (applause from the centre)
thank you very much, mr. theurer. i have explained to you in the letter i sent you the legal position i presented to the conference of presidents last thursday. the conference of presidents has given its full support to my view of the law. i therefore urge you to take this matter to the european court of justice. i have the impression that you are mistaken. i have accepted all the amendments concerning my person. the passage you have denounced - i think it is paragraph 47 - refers to decisions which i have taken in consultation with the conference of presidents and you as chairman of the committee on budgetary control. i'm surprised you came in here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would just like to make an appeal to mr swoboda. 'one of us' was co-initiated by the centre of our group, including four deputy group chairmen. it was the first successful european citizens' protest. i ask mr swoboda, these over 1 million active people who are working for a great cause, not to throw mr stadler into the arms with such statements.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to refer to rule 173 (1) and to inform you that we have read your letter of 11 april to the committee on budgetary control, which reported on the debate in the conference of presidents. we are seeing once again what we have seen before, namely that for this debate some very important facts have been omitted for the assessment of the facts. the conference of presidents was manipulated into making certain decisions and doing certain things. i would point out that you were criticised in paragraph 47 for the failure of the committee on budgetary control to work. this criticism is an example of the fact that important facts were again withheld from the conference of presidents. you quote the first half of a letter from the olaf monitoring committee to you, but if you had quoted the second half, it would have been clear that the document we objected to and which was withheld from us was prepared by the monitoring committee specifically for us to be included in an ongoing legislative procedure. this is just one example among many. i'll answer that, too. i want to make a lasting stand against this kind of manipulative approach! (applause from the centre)
that's a very serious accusation you're making against me. but i thank you for giving me such enormous political potential. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. moreover, in my decision on the point you refer to, in 2013, before i refused to publish the olaf monitoring report, i consulted the conference of presidents and gave all the members of the conference of presidents and the chairman of the committee on budgetary control, mr theurer, access to this monitoring report - they all had access to it! i wanted to make sure that my view that i could not publish it because it would interfere with an ongoing criminal case in malta was correct. the members of the conference of presidents at the time all took note and confirmed my legal position at the time. this is exactly what you're describing as manipulative. so, mrs. gräßle, you can take this to the european court of justice.
the debate is closed, mr staes. the case concerned an ongoing criminal case brought by the maltese public prosecutor against a commissioner of the european union. as president of this house, i am obliged to respect the rule of law. the olaf monitoring committee, in the form of its chairman, mr denolf, had sent me a report of that committee with an explicit request that this report be treated as the olaf investigation report, namely confidential. i have been obliged to do so by an interinstitutional agreement with the commission. that's exactly what i did. you can take a different political view. you can bring an action against my conduct before the court of justice, that is perfectly clear. but you cannot expect it to be subjected to political appraisal here in the house. i'm obligated to uphold the law, even if you don't like it. i did, and i'm done. we now come to the work schedule. the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 10 april 2014 in accordance with rule 137 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: monday:the epp group has asked for a joint debate to be held on today's agenda before the one-minute remarks on mrs mcintyre's report on a business-friendly environment for more jobs and to combine this with the request for an oral reply from the committee on industry on the commission's follow-up to the 10 most important consultations of smes on eu regulation.
the green group has asked that the vote on mrs meissner's report on the creation of a framework for maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal zone management be postponed from tuesday at 6 p.m. to thursday at 12 p.m. so that a legal and linguistic review of the text can be carried out.
mr swoboda, thank you for the information. we have to separate two things. first of all, i agree with you on principle. you know my position: i am in favour of voting on the compromise first to see if there is a majority in favour, so that all the other amendments are invalid. before the last report on the tobacco directive, we had the impression that, because of my approach, there were pre-revolutionary conditions in this house. i have then turned it over at the express request of - i believe also of your group or parts of your group - the committee on the rules of procedure, the verification of credentials and immunities. the result was surprising, however, in the small number of amendments that were accepted. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i must protect the services here. committees have the right to table amendments which could not be dealt with in committee directly in plenary. it is precisely this right that the committee has exercised. that's why we have this approach now. i can only tell you what the services have told me to justify it.
i have to admit, this is the first time i've heard that. i'll follow up. perhaps i can help you. i'm gonna try to look at the voting record again. maybe we can work something out.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i just want to point out that your interpretation is simply not correct as far as the procedures are concerned. the report of the committee on budgetary control to parliament was sent to you on the way, after the committee on budgetary control had requested such a report in order to be able to introduce it in the current legislative process. they have, so to speak, seized this report for months, although the monitoring committee's accompanying letter explicitly stated: given the foreseen reform of regulation no 1073/1999, the supervisor committees believes that the institutions need to know of the issues raised by the supervisor committee at the procedural level. it was that there was a deadlock before us, and that is what we criticised in paragraph 47 and that is what you have collected. it's censorship in its own right. our work has been censored, and please allow me to point that out at all times. i mean, telling half-truths is manipulation. that was my point, because only the first part of that letter was quoted and not the second part to the conference of presidents.
thank you very much, madam. i'll take that under advisement. i've had to live with a lot of things in my life. i'll also be able to handle the censorship charge. i would like to say, however, that you should not underestimate the members of the conference of presidents. i am sure you will have the opportunity to speak to your group chairman again about whether they felt that i had manipulated or censored them. i would also like to point out that, if i am correctly informed, you invited members of this monitoring committee to your committee at your request and heard them discuss the matters which i have allegedly covered up. i am a little surprised by your remarks. (the agenda is therefore adopted.)
the next item is the debate on the report by carlo fidanza, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the deployment of alternative fuels infrastructure (com ((2013) 0018 - c7-0022/2013 - 2013/0012 (cod)) (a7-0444/2013).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. first of all, of course, i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr carlo fidanza, and the shadow rapporteur, mrs gesine meissner. it was a tough negotiation on an important new directive, which we should understand as a 'learning strategy' but which will need to be adapted over the coming years. i regret all the more the absence of the other groups in the negotiations. i think we have reached an acceptable result. however, i would like to stress that we social democrats could have set more ambitious targets for individual fuels such as lng, or for electricity or electromobility, in order to reduce the much-cited dependence on oil in the transport sector. because oil still provides 90 percent of the world's energy needs. the most important step in the process of agreement is undoubtedly the harmonization of technical standards: in future, for example, there will be only one common charging plug for electric cars across europe. of course, this will reduce costs. this will enable a german electric car to be refuelled at a french charging station without the need for additional adapters. we have succeeded in oblige ing the member states to implement national strategic frameworks for infrastructure construction and development within two years. in the provisions of article 10 and article 4.2 we give the european commission the appropriate means to monitor progress appropriately. i would like to make one final point to the commission. the use of new technologies is still in its infancy in the various member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european parliament therefore calls on you to present a comprehensive action plan for sustainable mobility.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i want to thank carlo fidanza from the bottom of my heart. i can only do it in his absence, it's a pity he's not here. i can also return the thanks to ismail ertug. that's right, we were actually in the trilogy the whole time. the trilogues were difficult, but it is all the better that we have actually reached an agreement on the first reading. it is perhaps also very nice that mathieu grosch has spoken today for carlo fidanza, because mathieu grosch was the rapporteur for the white paper on transport. and the fact is that we have set very ambitious targets for emissions reduction. and if we want to reduce emissions from transport, then of course we also need to see how this can be done. the fact is that everything that concerns the transport of the future, whether it is liquefied gas, compressed gas, hydrogen or, for example, electricity, needs infrastructure. i know that in germany, for example, there were very ambitious targets for electric mobility, but many people didn't buy electric cars because they were afraid they wouldn't get the things charged. this is of course very important, so that you can be sure that i can buy a vehicle like this and recharge it anywhere in europe. it's also a good thing we have a standard plug. i have already said that it is good that we were able to finish the whole thing in the first reading. it's a pity we have so few ambitious goals. i am very much involved in the maritime sector, and i am absolutely sure that we could achieve much more. if, for example, we have only lng refuelling stations in the ports of the core network by 2025, then i think reality will overtake this legislative initiative. it is good that we have a faster supply in this area, but it is a pity that we could not write that in. i think, overall, a whole lot could be done faster. it's good that we have a trial order for shore power, because if you have lng liquefied gas for ports, then the question arises whether you need shore power in parallel. it is therefore good that the ports should be required to do only one of the two, and that is precisely what is reasonable.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the debate today could hardly be more timely. the world climate council presented its report yesterday, and unfortunately we are witnessing an escalation of the crisis in ukraine, which makes us painfully aware once again that we are dependent on russia, not only for gas but also for oil. that is why it is important to promote these alternative forms of propulsion. the legislation, which we hope to pass with a large majority tomorrow, will help us do that. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr carlo fidanza, the coordinator, mr matthieu grosch, and all those who have helped. it's a good result. i would like to focus on electric mobility. electric mobility can be a partner of renewable energy. if we want to balance the fluctuations of renewable energy, then electric cars can help us do that. if there's a lot of wind, the batteries can be fully charged. they can also be considered as storage, because the cars are usually parked for 22 hours a day and only moved for 2 hours. it is therefore also an important factor in solving the problem of renewable energy storage. and to do that, we need intelligent technology. that has been included in the report. we need an infrastructure - the commission has already proposed this. i am particularly pleased that we have a common plug, because it is hard to convey to people that we are talking about a common europe, but that when you drive from strasbourg to kehl you have another plug. aside from the fact that we have great range with the plug-in hybrid, from strasbourg to kehl, any electric car can do it. there were different plugs before. i've always been convinced of the type 2 connector, i've looked at it on the ground during development. i'm glad we agreed on that.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i should like to thank mr leichtfried for his report. the revision of the directive on maximum permissible dimensions and weights for lorries was long overdue and announced by the commission years ago. finally, the requirements and knowledge on road safety, the quality of the workplace of professional drivers and transport requirements have changed and evolved as much as the technical possibilities for achieving targets. even the eu's legal framework needs to be reviewed. i am glad that the rapporteur has done such a good job. it is a major step in the right direction, particularly in terms of safety, energy efficiency and environmental compatibility. in conjunction with the mandatory fitting of new truck types with driver assistance systems such as range radar, emergency braking system and lane keeping assistant, which has been mandatory for a few months, i now expect that efficient measures to prevent overloading of trucks will also be standard equipment. in the last 20 years, the capacity of individual ships, planes and trains has more than doubled, but not that of trucks. the impact of the approval of so-called long-haul trucks or eco-climate cleaners is widely disputed. i therefore welcome the removal of this subject from the current draft directive. i expect the commission to carry out a scientifically based impact assessment and a cost-benefit analysis of the use of such types of vehicle under strictly regulated conditions. until then, i fully accept the principle of subsidiarity. i recommend that this report be adopted.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the monster trucks are too long, too heavy for europe's roads and bridges. billions would have to be invested in adapting the infrastructure if gigaliners were to continue to travel across borders. the commission still owes us that answer, who should shoulder it, who should pay for it. the additional burden on the road at the expense of rail traffic and the increased accident risk due to the gigaliner are also critical. we have not yet received an answer as to why the european commission has reversed its long-standing policy without proper impact assessment and has thus jeopardised such an important piece of legislation. i am not only grateful for this, but i also thank the rapporteur for his consistent and factual approach. today the european commission presented a study on cabotage, in which it finds that 20% of trucks are travelling unladen across the european union. i wonder why we need longer trucks. but let it be. the main concern is that we must put the improvement of truck aerodynamics at the forefront of our efforts to achieve a sustainable road freight transport. the aerodynamic adjustments will contribute to increased road safety and also reduce fuel consumption. at the same time, we have the positive effect that ultimately the driver's cabin will have a higher level of comfort. finally, it is also a small contribution to at least slightly improving the poor working conditions of professional drivers. i think that the european commission should advocate higher social standards in road haulage in the new period rather than presenting further immature monster trucks or liberalization plans. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8)).
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank mr van dalen for his report. i think you only take the studies that fit your strategy and you withhold or ignore the ones you don't like. there are a wide variety of studies, from the fraunhofer study to a study by the federal road administration in the federal republic of germany and also a study from austria, which clearly show that these large gigaliners or monster trucks will ultimately lead to a significant deterioration of the infrastructure. if anyone is silent or denies this in this day and age, i don't know what to say. why don 't you ask the european commission ... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it's very good that in this regulation we now actually have an improvement in aerodynamics and in driver safety. we want that very much. it's also good that the drivers have more space. but as mr el khadraoui said earlier, 'we must now also adapt the traffic to the time of day.' this is not just a question of safety, but also of the growth of traffic, for example. we're gonna get a lot more traffic through the ships. of course, it would be good to get this on the rail and on the waterways. but all the forecasts say we also need more traffic on the road. and then it's important to make it more efficient. we have good experience in lower saxony, for example, with longer lorries. it doesn't cost more money for infrastructure because they only drive on the routes where they're really allowed. we also have a shortage of drivers in the trucking business. you could actually do justice to the fact that we're going to have fewer drivers in the future with these longer trucks. we should not close ourselves off to the future and also improve road efficiency, although we naturally want to move forward intermodally.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. mr. kallas, you have not done your job! your job is to uphold the law, not break it. they wanted to change the measurements and weights in europe by changing the interpretation. and when you make a change, you have to do an impact assessment. you didn't do that either. we know that 35% of single freight and 13% of combined transport are being moved from rail to road. the opposite is the objective of the european union! that's why we have to reject the monster trucks. they're also a great danger. and the aerodynamics, which is always invoked, why didn't you commission it to be represented in the existing weights and measures, to see if we don't have an improvement? you didn't do that either. their only goal was to get the monster trucks on the road. in germany there are 20,000 parking spaces for lorries on motorways. the longer monster trucks that need more, it's going to exacerbate the problem, not solve it. what mr pirker said: it is quite clear that we are talking about the socialisation of losses and the privatisation of profits. that is why we reject it!
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, this debate shows clearly that the proposal is important and that the compromise text strikes a very delicate balance. this is why the commission supports the adoption of the report tomorrow. citizens, road hauliers and european manufacturers are waiting for it. following the general approach of the council, which is expected in june, i hope that we will be able to finalise this new directive by the end of the year. some replies to some remarks. first of all we have no plans to scrap anything concerning safety – a question which was asked because of a rumour. next i would just like to say that legislative initiatives were initially proposed to deal with aerodynamics, safety, better visibility and the improved safety of bigger trucks and also environmental performance. so this was the basic idea at the beginning. nobody had any intention to include any provision allowing or not allowing the bigger trucks. these amendments, which are today in the report and will be voted on tomorrow, maintain the text of the current directive unchanged, and it was not the commission’s primary aim to modify the provisions related to cross-border operations. so this article 4 applies. i should point out that including these provisions about border crossing by bigger trucks in this legislation was done at the request of the committee on transport and tourism. i regret deeply that this has taken over the very positive elements of this directive, which improves aerodynamics and environmental performance and the safety of the bigger trucks. my position on this is absolutely clear. we have no intention of generalising or insisting on the use of bigger trucks all over europe, but we of course clearly respect the will and decision-making of the member states. if they have already allowed the use of these bigger trucks, this falls within their competence, and if the member states do not allow it, we totally respect this. so we have no intention of adopting some kind of general approach to force the bigger trucks onto the road. this is the basic point.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 15 april 2014, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading of the committee on transport and tourism on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the rules and procedures relating to noise-related operating restrictions at union airports, taking a balanced approach and repealing directive 2002/30/ec (05560/2/2014 - c7-0133/2014 - 2011/0398 ((cod)) (rapporteur: jörg leichtfried (a7-0274/2014)).
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i support the agreement on airport noise reached between the council and parliament that mr leichtfried has just presented and i wish to congratulate the rapporteur and shadow rapporteurs on their hard work. the european parliament has been able to steer the final outcome towards more visibility for the health aspects and a higher degree of public participation in the decision-making process. the commission had higher ambitions for marginally-compliant aircraft, for example, and for the eu mechanisms to ensure that all parties respect the process for adopting traffic restrictions. overall, however, these new rules on airport noise represent a good compromise. they will strengthen the protection of european citizens against aircraft noise. national authorities – and they alone – will take the actual decisions on traffic restrictions to be imposed at any given airport. the noise regulation will ensure that these decisions are prepared in line with best practices across europe, in a way that includes all interested parties and favours evidence-based and cost-effective decisions. finally, this regulation will also make sure that eu practices are aligned with the relevant icao principle – what is known as a balanced approach – and will help us implement the eu-united states air transport agreement. to facilitate this positive outcome, the commission has issued a statement on the review of the environmental noise directive. this statement underlines the importance that the commission attaches to health issues, as i know parliament does too.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i am convinced that the agreement on the rules and procedures for noise-related operating restrictions at airports is good news for the citizens of europe, especially for all those who have an airport in the area where they live - in my case, the rhein-main airport in frankfurt. the crucial point, which has already been emphasized by the rapporteur, is that we are fully applying the principle of subsidiarity. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will take them up. it is important that where noise is generated and where it must be tackled, the competent authorities also have the final say. i am sure that all interested parties will be happy to take note of any good arguments or comments made by the commission. but the decision has to be made on the spot. as i have already said, it is also important that health protection is enshrined in the text and that we have a statement from the commission that the health effects of noise should be taken into account more fully in the future when the so-called environmental noise directive is revised. it is good news for local residents in particular that the noisiest aircraft are also being phased out a little faster and that we have also committed ourselves with this regulation to ensuring that local residents are even better informed about what is planned in the future. overall, a result that can be seen. we also ensure that trust in local authorities is maintained and that procedures such as mediation, which are important in many areas, remain relevant. i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the colleagues who have worked on it.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i would also like to express my sincere thanks to the rapporteur, mr leichtfried, on behalf of mr ramon tremosa i balcells. i am sorry that mr tremosa cannot be here today, but i will speak for him on behalf of my group. a lot has been said. on this point, we are in agreement. of course, we need air traffic. air traffic is very dense over europe and many forecasts say it will increase. of course, then you have to think about how to manage this traffic, how to make sure that if you actually have to build new runways, that the residents are not also bothered by noise for a fee. noise is bad for our health, we know that. so it is very good that we have this balanced approach, this balanced approach, which the icao has also proposed internationally; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on transport and tourism, which are not in the same spirit as the amendments tabled by the committee on transport and tourism. it's a good thing we have that in this case. the fact is that, for example, we've talked about alternative energy today, and we've already thought about the airport of the future, and maybe it could have electric mobility, at least on the airport grounds. that would be a significant reduction in volume. this is the music of the future. one more thing: i also think it is good that in this case it is also said that any night flight bans must really be decided locally and must not be decided at eu level. that makes sense, because every airport has different conditions on the ground. so it is good that we can decide this directly with the citizens on the ground.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their remarks. today’s debate shows that it is possible to reach a successful conclusion on proposals related to airports. this adoption of the airport noise regulation will, hopefully, pave the way for negotiations between council and the incoming parliament on both airport slots and ground handling services, which are other elements of the better airports package. this regulation today shows that it is possible to reach a good compromise and an agreement. regarding research, as ms foster has rightly mentioned already, we are contributing to the single european sky everything which is related to the single sky, and this definitely reduces the noise and pollution as well. we are also contributing to the research and development of engines, which also has a clear impact regarding noise. we are very happy that transport research will receive more funding than it did during the last financial perspective.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 16 april 2014, at 6 p.m.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by mario pirillo, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on official controls and other official activities to ensure the application of the rules on food and feed law, animal health and animal welfare, plant health, plant propagating material and plant protection products, and amending regulations (ec) no 999/2001, (ec) no 1829/2003, (ec) no 1831/2003, (ec) no 1/2005, (ec) no 396/2005, (ec) no 834/2007, (ec) no 1099/2009, (ec) no 1069/2009 and (ec) no 1107/2009, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the regulation of the council on regulations (eu) no 1151/2012 and (eu) no 98/2013 on official controls and other official activities to ensure the application of the rules on food and feed law, animal health and animal welfare, plant health, plant protection products and plant protection products, and on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on regulation (ec) no 999/2001, (ec) no 1829/2003, (ec) no 1831/2003, (ec) no 1/2005, (ec) no 396/2005, (ec) no 1099/2007, (ec) no 1099/2009, (ec) no 1069/2009 and (ec) no 1069/2009 (ec (ec) and (ec) no 1107/2009, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on regulations (eu) no 1151/2012 (eu) and regulation (eu) no 1151/2012 (eu) and regulation (eu) and regulation (eu) no 98/51 (eu) (eu)
the committee on agriculture adopted an opinion on the proposal. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. we all agree that we want to have a harmonized european internal market in the field of foodstuffs, animal health and plant health, and also protection against the dangers to health posed by pests, diseases and diseases. but we must be careful to protect ourselves without isolating ourselves within europe or isolating ourselves so much abroad that our economic capacity suffers. we should be careful that the controls are, in principle, risk-based, i.e. where the risk is highest, the controls must be applied most effectively. where you can show that the risk is reduced, you can also control less. we must then ensure that the limits on the frequency of inspections and the fees are clearly defined, because many small businesses, whether in the food sector or in horticulture or agriculture, simply cannot bear these extremely high inspection costs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that is why we should be careful to ensure that proportionality is always maintained in such a large body of legislation.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank the rapporteur. we have fought for a good result in many rounds, and i believe that is also the case. we can vote on this tomorrow with confidence. let me say first that in europe we have a high level of food safety thanks to legislation that has been in place since 2006. this high level has led to us actually having bigger problems with the food industry. but it was necessary to amend regulation no 882 because we ourselves have also found that there were some problems here. i would like to point out just a few. the question of trichinella testing has not been raised at all so far - a huge problem in germany in order to achieve some cost reduction. that settles it. we have doubled the penalty for food fraud here in parliament in relation to profits, that is to say more than double the profits. that's a good approach, and this will be a deterrent. we have also made it clear, of course, that there is no discrimination against companies in the public presentation of the studies. the question of fees has, of course, been hotly debated. it is true, of course, that we should also charge fees for licensed or registered companies. they have that in belgium. but this is far from creating a more secure control system. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we're gonna have to catch up. that is why we have also set out a clear framework for the fees, which are to be used for calculation and which are not. the commission should adopt this proposal. i think that's very important. i am always skeptical that delegated acts - you have mentioned this, commissioner - will be successful. you can react quickly with this kind of intervention now, without the need for delegated acts, which take much longer. but we'll see how it goes. i think i can take a moment to deviate from the agenda. as this is my last speech in this parliament, i would like to thank all my colleagues and the european commission for the pleasant cooperation over the last two years. thank you very much. i hope that parliament will soon have even more power to assert itself in europe. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i am very pleased to see you here. the important question in the case of checks is of course also the frequency of the checks and what criteria are applied in the case of checks. i would like to ask whether it is correct that the size of a holding is decisive for the frequency and intensity of checks. larger plants often have a different or more efficient way of handling hygiene. does horst schnellhardt share my view that more frequent inspections should be carried out on establishments that are conspicuous?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. of course, the size of the enterprise is not a measure of the frequency of controls, the starting point is always risk. and anyone who has ever been in the control area knows that there is a template where this is entered. it also shows that companies that do not work properly are more likely to be audited. i'm definitely behind that. it must also lead to financial burden. but the starting point for the number of checks is the risk, nothing else.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am speaking on the animal health regulation as rapporteur for the epp and my first thanks go to our rapporteur, mrs paulsen. the cooperation was always constructive and it was always goal-oriented. it is important to my group to keep the regulation simple and to concentrate the measures on the essential, namely the prevention and control of animal diseases. many animal welfare and animal health requirements have no direct link with the risk of disease and are therefore not covered by this regulation. we must believe in scientifically sound evidence, and we want to do so. for this reason my group will not support amendments to the animal welfare and protection in this report. we will also not support a derogation for the identification and registration of sheep and goats. we are discussing and deciding on the existing regulations on the registration of farm animals and the questions concerning cattle. these regulations are intended to remain in force and are outside the scope of this animal health regulation. the possible exceptions to this rule must be worked out in trilogue. i was a member of the agriculture committee in 2001 following the outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in britain. i don't want to be responsible for any more of these problems. this needs to be discussed very cleanly. we have included the following key points in the report: regular risk-based animal visits, responsible use of antibiotics. we want to allow member states to take national preventive measures under certain circumstances. we have been able to include the list of animal diseases and species as an essential element in the annex, and that is important to us. precautionary measures should be given greater prominence. stray and wild animals can pose a risk to animals and humans and must be part of disease prevention. i am confident and hope that this final statement to the committee on agriculture, after 15 years of working there, will lead to a good result in the vote tomorrow.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am speaking on the pirillo report. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur for the epp, horst schnellhardt. we've had a lot of food scandals in the last few years. we must draw the consequences. what's important to us above all is that the penalties, if you're caught, should be deterrent. in the case of horse meat, our colleague esther de lange has observed that in some cases the penalties were less than the economic benefits of the deception. we want to change that. the committee on budgets has adopted an amendment to this effect by mrs esther de lange. i hope that the house will also accept this amendment. the penalties must be at least twice the economic advantage gained by the fraud. we have had a great deal of discussion about the question of how the financing of controls is regulated. the committee's result is not perfect. the committee is disappointed that the exemptions for small and mediumsized enterprises have been removed. i'm sure that's not a good result. that is why the epp group has tabled a motion saying that we need an exception. the commission proposal was a little rigid. ten employees are not a lot these days, even with twelve or fifteen employees you are a very small company. there should be exceptions to that. that is why we have tabled an amendment and will support two ecr amendments to give member states flexibility in this area.
mr president, commissioner borg, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am speaking on the report on measures to protect plant pests. i do not always thank the commission, but today i would like to thank you, commissioner, for the proposal you have put forward. i think it is very appropriate. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr fajmon, who has had the difficult task of dealing with a wide range of positions. i would also like to thank my shadow rapporteur, even if she takes a different view from that recently adopted by the majority of the group. the commission proposal improves the existing situation without any major bureaucratic effort. we must be careful, as our commission president barroso said, not to impede all trade here with new bureaucracy and new costs. europe has a large share in the import and export of plants and plant products over eur 200 billion. we must try to improve the situation here, but not to change it fundamentally. it is useful to have the ability to react quickly to new risks, to add to the negative list. i do not think it is right for us to introduce a positive list, because that would impede world trade and affect our producers too. we attach great importance to ensuring that our producers can also export. if we were to work with a positive list, it would cause a backlash. today, in one of my last speeches of this parliamentary term, i would like to thank elisabeth jeggle for always working on animal welfare for our group, and i would also like to thank you, mrs paulsen, for your good cooperation. i would also like to thank you, commissioner borg. it was a pleasure to work with you and i would like to - without prejudging - to see this cooperation continue in the next period.
i have to say, madam president, european laws must also be controlled on a european basis or on european foundations. controls must be transparent and reliable, so that producers, processors and consumers can be sure that food and feed meet our european standards and are healthy. unnecessary duplication of checks must be avoided, as must excessive bureaucracy and excessive costs. the extensive system of cross-compliance checks under the common agricultural policy must be recognised and must not be subject to any additional cost burden or even additional checks by the food control authority. in the end, the financing of the controls by means of cost-collection is in principle contrary to the polluter-pays principle. if the frequency of checks and the level of fees are then left to be determined by the control authority itself, then, commissioner, we run the risk of being subjected to arbitrary checks for the sake of control and to generate revenue. and that cannot be!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. democracy needs transparency, just as life needs light. otherwise it'll start to mould and stink. as members of parliament, our task is to serve the common good and the citizens. but the citizens are far away and the temptations are great. we've got tens of thousands of lobbyists running around. dozens of invitations every night. the new transparency register aims to shed light on the darkness of lobbying in brussels: who exercises influence here and how? i think the public and the media should be able to relate to that. if the greens had their way, we'd have a mandatory register. but this is not the case with parliament, but with the council - the darkroom of european politics itself, in contrast to which parliament is really a bright room of democracy and transparency. we have done a lot of pushing and with this report and the agreement we have reached the second best solution, as far as we can go. that is why we are voting for it. i 'd like to say one last thing , though . i personally don't believe that regulations rule everything. i think we also need a bit of morality, a conscience, an inner compass, which i wish for all my colleagues in the future, in every second of their actions.
mr president, i am holding in my hands a cane and a cap, the same as an 84-year-old man who committed suicide in greece. he went as a pilgrim to greece. at first, they gave him a pension. a few months ago, they cut pensions altogether because it was a troika demand. he didn't get a penny. the man couldn't stand begging, he only asked for a little money to live with dignity. this fate affects 7,000 returning pensioners in greece. at the same time, in greece, 3 million pensioners are living with the consequences of austerity. they've lost over 50% of their pension. they can't survive, but they're trying to support their unemployed children. why does the troika fight for the dignity of men? we owe respect to the people who gave a life and now, in their old age, can't live. respect for human dignity!
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. i have the honour to speak today on behalf of mr jean-luc dehaene, who is not doing well personally. i would like to extend to him my warmest greetings and best wishes. this resolution is the follow-up to more than two and a half years of difficult negotiations on the first financial framework based on the lisbon provisions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. this resolution also draws lessons for the future. the result of the negotiations is relatively unsatisfactory, despite parliament's successes in increasing flexibility, budget transparency and preserving the unity of the budget. the overall level of commitments, at 960 billion and payments, at 908 billion, is far below parliament's requirements and represents a de facto reduction of 3.5% and 3.7% respectively in real terms compared to 2007-13. but above all, the negotiations have revealed one thing: the institutions clearly do not share a common vision of budgetary policy priorities. instead of arguing about how the investment budget can be used to maximise the leverage effect for growth, competitiveness and employment, the main topic of discussion in the council was net balances and outflows of funds, encouraged by the current own resources system. i would nevertheless like to emphasise that the pilot project we started to try out new formats with the involvement of parliament - informal meetings with the council presidency, participation of the negotiating team in informal meetings - the general council meeting - all the necessary measures to facilitate the adoption of the legislative act - was a good approach and should not be forgotten. but in the course of the european council's own engagement, which has actually exceeded its contractual mandate, this has of course remained somewhat in the background. finally, parliament also approved the financial framework in view of the constraints on consolidation at national level. but it must nevertheless be made clear that the debates on added value, in order to link national and european budgets, will have to be brought closer together in the future and that the negotiating arrangements will have to be adapted, in particular by means of a better exchange of information between the european council and the european parliament, and that in the event of a new convention or a contractual arrangement, there should also be a discussion on whether the council should also not use qualified majorities on this issue. the low level of expenditure now requires a particularly responsible approach on the part of the budgetary authority. the low annual ceilings must ultimately be exploited to the full, taking advantage of all the flexibility instruments. and with the budget so tight, we know that unforeseen events will be seldom covered. it will be important for us that the commitment to the mid-term review and, if necessary, to a review, is a crucial parliamentary condition for the inauguration and confirmation of a new commission. the budget needs to be reviewed in 2016 in the light of the political priorities and progress towards the europe 2020 objectives. where appropriate, a reduction in the term of office and the parallelism of terms of office and mandate and financial framework shall also be discussed. the high level group on own resources has the potential to initiate reforms. all participants are called upon to fulfil their mandate to produce concrete results by 2016 so that there is finally a system of own resources, in accordance with the treaties, that deserves the name. if fiscal capacity is to be created, especially for the euro area, which is not covered by the financial framework, democratic control and accountability must be ensured by the existing institutions.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. for those i see here in front, who have worked on this dossier, dear comrades in arms! five years behind us. five years of this parliament's work on a banking union which we are completing today. in time for the end of this legislature, in time for the taxpayer. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union's financial institutions are able to compete with the european union's financial institutions. it is no longer the first line of defence if we are to experience banking crises like those of the past in the future. we have succeeded, together with the commission and the council, in establishing, in addition to supervision, in addition to the legislation on resolution, in addition to the creation of the resolution authority, a deposit guarantee system for which i was responsible as rapporteur - a deposit guarantee system which certainly had to be advanced with some stumbling blocks along the way. but we were able to overcome those obstacles. we can say today as a parliament that it was good that we took the time. it was good that we went into the first reading and that we are only concluding this legislative procedure with the second reading today. we've accomplished a lot. we have achieved things that the council would never have allowed us to do just three years ago. let's just look at the size of the deposit insurance fund. we had the council's offer for the winding-up fund and the deposit guarantee fund at that time, which was a little more than half of what we have achieved today for both funds. so we have almost double the stability for the taxpayer, double the stability that future banking crises will be solved by the banks themselves and not by the community of all. we've made a lot of progress on the issue of pay. two years ago we were told that it was impossible to give the average citizen access to his financial resources in a short time. we pushed it. within a week, everything will be back to normal for the average checking account holder. we have insisted that this deposit guarantee fund will have to be used much less frequently than in the past in some member states. we have ensured that the 'bail-in' principle will finally make the principle of 'risk must entail liability' the rule in the banking sector. we've managed to put things back together. i am well aware that this whole thing needs a practical test now. i am well aware that when you turn a wheel this big, individual adjustment screws will certainly have to be retracted in the further course of things. but i am quite sure that this house, together with the commission and the council, will be able to put these screws together in the coming legislature. i would like to thank my shadow rapporteurs once again for what we have already achieved. i would also like to thank the commission, headed by commissioner barnier, and in particular the lithuanian presidency of the council, which had the courage to put this seemingly hopeless issue of deposit guarantee back on the agenda with us. today proves we were right to do it. today we can complete the banking union, it is a good day for the taxpayers, for the citizens of europe.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - i know . madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i consider it a great privilege and honour to be representing the council at this important meeting. the commission has already taken a number of important decisions on the basis of the proposals contained in the report. the rapid completion of the banking union sends a clear and unequivocal message to all those who have doubted the european union's ability to draw the right lessons from the economic crisis and to make the structural interventions that concern the supervision and management of our financial system. the establishment of a solid banking union is essential to break the link between the banking sector and public debt, between the budgetary and financial crisis that the european union has been experiencing for the last several years. it is also vital to address market fragmentation, in particular of the financial services market within the euro area. the banking union has been in place for less than two years. it is a titanic feat, which will enable europe to emerge stronger from the crisis. it is an important step towards achieving a genuine economic and monetary union, based on integration and solidarity in the euro area and the minimum common regulatory framework, the foundation on which the banking union is built, offers much greater stability to the whole of the european union and the internal market. as part of this minimum common regulatory framework, we have already adopted in 2013 the legislative package of the 4th capital requirements directive. this ensures that all banks maintain adequate capital and liquidity reserves and enhances their risk management capacity. in this way we have also fulfilled the union's international commitments under basel iii. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed amendments on the financial stability of the union. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. this, of course, must be supplemented by more specific provisions for the protection of small and mediumsized enterprises and their pension schemes, as well as deposits of small public authorities, and certain deposits for housing and social purposes. i look forward to the council's confirmation at this plenary session of the completion of the directive on deposit guarantee schemes through the approval we agreed with parliament at the end of last year. the ultimate ambition is, of course, to move from the directive on deposit guarantee schemes to an integrated european deposit guarantee scheme. i hope that this will not be long in coming to be seen as a vital need for the euro area and the european union as a whole. the bank recovery and resolution directive (brrd) is also an important instrument in support of banking union which is now being put to you for approval. the bank recovery and resolution directive will maximise the chances of banks recovering from a difficult situation. in the extreme case that a bank is irreparably damaged, it will allow the preservation of the bank's critical functions, while the bank's recovery will be done in an orderly manner. the costs involved will be borne primarily by the owners and uninsured creditors, not the taxpayer. the bank supervisors and the national resolution authorities will now have the means to enforce this procedure fully. let me make a comment on the supervisory pillar: the single supervisory mechanism. the single supervisory mechanism regulation has created strong banking supervision in the euro area and other member states that wish to participate. the european central bank supervises systemically important banks directly and works closely with the national competent authorities responsible for the others. this contributes to a level playing field and to stricter supervision of the sector. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them, because it is not in a position to do so. it's no secret that the process was complex and difficult. i believe that the delicate compromise we have reached is a real achievement. as with any compromise, no one considers it ideal, but the stakes are too high to allow our quest for perfection to undermine the possibility of an acceptable agreement. we set ourselves a very ambitious target, and we are now very close to achieving what we set out to achieve. we have created fundamental taxpayer and depository policies that will protect our financial stability, and prevent future crises. i would therefore like to warmly thank the rapporteurs, the shadow rapporteurs, the chairman and the members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs of the european parliament for their great advice and contribution, their staff, of course, commissioner michel barnier, who has played a key role in all this, the previous lithuanian presidency for what it has done, and i would like to personally thank the greek minister of finance, mr jannis sturgeon, who is currently chairing ecofin, the permanent president of the eurogroup, and all those who have contributed directly or indirectly to this institutional achievement.
member of the commission. - madam president, hello to each and every one of you. you can see that this is a very important moment today. indeed, not only is this the last session of your parliament, but also, with these three texts forming a whole, we are building together, ladies and gentlemen, with the presidency, the architecture of regulation and financial stability after the european union - and we are not yet out of the woods - has been hit since 2008 by a financial crisis of incredible violence, which has broken growth, exacerbated the sovereign debt crisis and caused economic, social and political difficulties that we have not yet finished measuring. in the face of this crisis, i have been with you since february 2010. we have done a lot of work together, ladies and gentlemen. i have had the honour to present to you, on behalf of the european commission, and with the support of president barroso, nearly 40 legislative proposals to respond to this crisis, to learn from it and to build this stability. in the middle of this architecture i thank othmar karas, who is there we have put in place a central text which is that of the prudential measures on the 8 300 banks in the 28 member states. and we've moved on together. we're there with this reference code, this single rule book, with brd, the resolution and the deposit guarantee. thanks to the remarkable efforts of your rapporteurs who have just spoken, peter simon and gunnar hökmark, whom i thank, and their collaborators and all the members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, sharon bowles and the fictitious rapporteurs, we have been able to reach a balanced agreement on these two texts, which are of interest to the whole single market. this agreement marks the creation of a single rule book for the management of banking crises throughout the european union with common tools for preventing, preparing, managing and financing bank failures without always having to go to the rescue of the taxpayer, as has been seen too often in the past, to ask him to pay for the mistakes or weaknesses of the banks. our already difficult task has been made even more difficult by the changing economic situation. from 2010 onwards, this financial market crisis was compounded by a very acute sovereign debt crisis, particularly in the euro area. the commission has therefore taken the necessary steps to ensure that the banking sector is able to compete effectively with the rest of the world. this is what we called the banking union, which i had the honour of presenting in two stages since september 2012. in this connection, i would naturally like to add my thanks to the various presidencies that have succeeded each other, the cypriot presidency, the irish presidency and the lithuanian presidency, which has already been mentioned. and i welcome, of course, the deputy prime minister, mr venizelos, the greek presidency, which is particularly active, and in particular, within the greek government, the minister for finance, ioannis stournaras and his teams. we have therefore moved up a gear and this ambition has been shared from the outset and even a little ahead of time by the european parliament. i remember, back in 2010, elisa ferrera, your non-legislative report which called precisely for this european framework for managing banking crises, a financial stability fund and a unity - you wrote - of resolution prefiguring what eventually became the board a little later. four years later, together, we have turned this conceptual approach into reality. we have taken that first step with the single supervisory mechanism, more rigorous for all banks in the euro area, applying the same rules as those of the single market, only one single rule book, but applying those rules in a more integrated, more efficient and more federal way in the euro area. i also welcome the work of marianne thyssen, sven giegold and all the fictitious rapporteurs, as well as the work of president danièle nouy and vice-president sabine lautenschläger, who have started work at the european central bank. the oversight mechanism is almost operational. its starting stock, together with asset quality reviews and stress tests, will make the balance sheet of european banks more transparent with a view to regaining the confidence of citizens and markets. but banking union must be based on two pillars: supervision and resolution. it has not been easy, perhaps a little more difficult even for resolution than for supervision, given the issues and the very different initial positions. you have shown a great deal of pragmatism. i know that it took some effort to reach a compromise and the agreement of 20 march is a major breakthrough. i would like to thank very warmly, again, elisa ferrera and, of course, president sharon bowles, but also the rapporteurs corien wortmann-kool, who is here, sven giegold, vicky ford, who have worked very hard, including in this very long negotiating session, of almost 17 hours, to bring about this agreement. i think we have done our job reasonably and seriously, by creating the conditions for european banks to be more robust and for confidence in the financial sector and the euro to be restored. i will remind you by telegraph, for those listening to us outside, no doubt, of the concrete progress. first, we changed the paradigm. bank resolution will now be financed by shareholders and creditors through bail-in, internal recapitalisation and, in addition, credible resolution and guarantee funds, fed by and for banks. if this system had been put in place at the beginning of the crisis, five or six years ago, i can say that we would probably have had the banking crises for which we would have had to resort to public money on the fingers of one hand. i think the sovereign debt crisis would have been less severe. secondly, the protection of depositors. it must be reaffirmed below eur 100[nbsp]000[nbsp]. deposits are guaranteed and will be guaranteed at all times and in all places. even beyond that, the risk of loss is extremely low thanks to the privileged status of depositors, citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises. thirdly, we are introducing crisis prevention and preparedness powers throughout the union. i have often told you that, in financial matters as in ecological disasters, they are multiplying, prevention always costs less than repair. and when it comes to repairs - disasters happen all the same - a planned and organized repair is always cheaper than a messy or improvised one. we wanted to do the same in the banking sector. in future, each bank will have to demonstrate that it can be resolved without damage to financial stability. so we're done with this improvisation. fourthly, in the euro area and in all member states that wish to participate, the resolution mechanism will be the guarantor of the effective application of these rules to all banks. there is the resolution board, with a centralised european resolution mechanism, a system which is reliable, no doubt complex, and i regret that too. the commission and the council are involved in validating the most discretionary decisions of the board, but this also illustrates the important responsibilities entrusted to the board. the system is based on credible funding, accelerated over eight years and with a mutualisation of contributions of 60% after two years. finally, and this is particularly important to me, as it is to all of you, the coherence of the internal market as a whole has been preserved with full respect for the resolution directive, which is the single rule book applicable in the 28 member states. ladies and gentlemen, i owe you this thanks. i was sensitive to the testimony you gave to the european commission, which did its work in a determined and voluntary manner. it was normal. i take note of these expressions of thanks, which also concern all my staff, my office and the commission's directorate-general for the internal market, who have worked with you a lot and well. you've made compromises, and it hasn't been easy. i am thinking in particular of the intergovernmental agreement. even though it's limited, it's been hard for many of us to accept. but the level and the pooling of funding, the independence of the board, the framework for public stabilisation tools, the reduction of the deadlines for compensating depositors, all these aspects and probably many others have been possible only thanks to you and your determination to maintain the level of ambition and credibility of the text. it seems to me that with the banking union based on these two pillars we are giving substance and reality to the most ambitious european project since the euro. as with all other financial texts, we must ensure that today and tomorrow we are on a level playing field with our g20 partners and, as has been said, we must ensure that it works. it will therefore take time to implement, to evaluate and to adjust all these texts, but we have worked properly and correctly to ensure financial stability. as gunnar hökmark said earlier, this stability having been restored, we must now be able to build on these solid foundations - more robust, more firm - where we have restored transparency, accountability, as mr simon said, and also a little morality and ethics where they had disappeared - to deal with growth, employment and competitiveness in europe. (applause) i would like to thank
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. in my view, the banking union is certainly the most important project in the financial sector in this election period. i am in complete agreement with commissioner barnier, who has just made a similar argument. as the epp's shadow rapporteur, i am naturally particularly concerned about the revision of the deposit guarantee directive - the third pillar of the banking union. so i'm very happy and relieved that we've finally been able to bring this important issue of deposit insurance to a conclusion. i am convinced that we have really come to a good conclusion here. let me take a look back. more than two years ago, in february 2012, we had already adopted our position in plenary at first reading, after the council had blocked the negotiations for a long time. the negotiations were then resumed by the lithuanian presidency of the council in the autumn of last year, and after only three trilogues, we reached an agreement with the council on 17 december 2013. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council and the commission on the subject of the protection of savings accounts. in practical terms, this means that every saver is guaranteed a balance of up to 100 000 euros, without any ifs and buts. the protection of savers, especially small savers, is therefore a top priority. we can be satisfied with the measures taken. a high level of protection for depositors is ensured. the eu has also demonstrated its ability to deal with a highly complex issue in the area of bank resolution. in future, bank failures, which can drag financial markets and public finances down the drain, will no longer be tolerated. today's vote on the remaining two pillars of the banking union - bank resolution with a single supervisory mechanism and deposit guarantee - will be a major step forward in the development of a stable and responsible financial system. the eu is the first economic region in the world to have developed a banking union and thus a sophisticated system for preventing banking crises. our aim of completing this project by the end of this parliamentary term is now well and truly achieved.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the financial sector has accused us of having overwhelmed it with a veritable regulatory tsunami in recent years. i think that all the projects we have taken on were right and that it was necessary to decide on these projects in order to increase the security of the sector. however, we have - as commissioner barnier has pointed out - set the wrong priorities. we should have started with the banking union as the first project. the banking union has the overriding objective of breaking the fatal link between banks and public financing. i would just like to briefly touch on the three pillars of the banking union. first, the issue of supervision. we've talked about this in the past. it will hopefully help us to have no more regulatory arbitrage, to have a uniform supervisory culture across countries, to have more security of the sector and better protection of investors. i only hope that the fear that there is a conflict of interest between supervision and monetary policy is not justified and i also hope that the asset quality review, which is being carried out with the help of many auditors, will produce a good result so as not to jeopardise the credibility of the ecb. because in the past these auditors have not always been correct in their assessment of the banks' position. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope that the transition from bailout to bailout will actually help to stop socializing the losses and privatizing the profits, but to keep the taxpayer out of it. the principle that risky action and attachment go together must be reinforced. the result is not quite what we as a parliament had in mind, but it is quite acceptable. eight years for financing and not ten okay, communityisation after two years at 60%. i would ask, however, that we make sure that, when it comes to implementation, savings banks, national banks and small banks pay contributions that are really appropriate, in terms of proportionality and risk, and not overcharged. as for the deposit guarantee fund, i am very pleased that it will remain national for the time being. i don't agree with minister venizelos that we should do this as soon as possible.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the banking union is certainly the biggest step forward for europe in this parliamentary term. we've tightened the rules. we now have a common european oversight. we now have the common rules of procedure. this is to ensure that in future taxpayers no longer have to pay, but that liability is also introduced in this area of the market economy. the commission has not yet completed its work, but two important elements are still missing. we are missing the issue of taxing financial markets - the financial transaction tax is still not implemented - and we also have no solution yet to the problem that some banks are so big that even with the most beautiful resolution architecture, it will always be difficult to resolve them. the rules on the separate banking system, for which the commission has put forward a cautious proposal, must therefore now be discussed and implemented with vigour. the question, of course, is what role parliament has played. in all the laws we have adopted here, parliament has moved towards a more efficient, european and democratic model. we have made great progress in this direction, particularly in the area of settlement. that is why we shall be voting in favour of this. however, it must be said at the same time that the intergovernmental treaty, which was drawn up in parallel with the community legislation, constitutes an infringement of the council's rights and that the european commission did not have the courage to use the means at its disposal as guardian of the treaties to combat this infringement. finally, i am concerned that behind the doors of the economic and financial committee there are attempts to repeal the liability rules. the famous article 27 (2) on the preventive recapitalisation of banks, which we have tried to limit, is now being dragged back into detail. the commission, the council and parliament should all oppose this, because liability must also apply in this area.
i have to say, madam president, i would also like to stress, first of all, that we see the banking union as an important step in the right direction. if we want a single currency, we need a correspondingly clear regulation of the banking sector, a clear coordination of economic policy. we have already said that at the beginning of the crisis. we have a few critical remarks to make. the aim of the banking union, and above all of the resolution funds, is to spare taxpayers the cost of bank resolution in the future. we have some difficulty, however, in imagining that the equipment of this instrument will really be sufficient. we shall have to see, but we still have a number of doubts and perhaps we will have to work on them in the future. another important question for us is the problem of too big to fail. we cannot solve this problem with this point, we cannot solve it, and it is not possible to do all of this at once. i think that this will be a major challenge for the next parliamentary term. i hope that in the next parliamentary term we will find a satisfactory answer to this problem.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think that after five years in this parliament we can say with pride that we have done what we promised the citizens of europe in 2009 to do, namely to create stable financial markets and to relieve the taxpayers permanently if similar crises should occur again in the banking sector, that we have done this task well. we have succeeded in creating european supervisory structures. we have succeeded in making extensive arrangements in the area of financial regulation - we shall be voting on this tonight - and in doing so we have also fulfilled the g20 countries' commitment to allow no unregulated products, no unregulated markets. we are now succeeding in contributing with the banking union to the fact that the sector itself bears its risks and is not primarily at the disposal of the taxpayer as a bailout. i consider what we have achieved together in this parliament a great success. i should like to say a few words on financial regulation, because unfortunately we are voting on it tonight without debate: we have had two and a half years of difficult negotiations with several council presidencies on mifid alone. you will remember, commissioner, that we have worked out a model solution which can be applied not only to the european union but also to other economic markets in the world in many areas. i would like to thank you very much for the good cooperation you have had in this parliament.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank the internal market commissioner very warmly for his work over the last five years. he did a great job. i vividly remember that his predecessor, mccreevy, only submitted the very first proposals on march 15, 2009, because he preferred to go to the horse race in ireland before. so it is an express word of thanks. i believe that the banking union will not be a panacea. i am grateful that, particularly as regards the resolution fund, this has been done on a different legal basis than the majority in parliament has called for. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the banking sector is not left behind. the old cases will continue to be settled at national level, whether it is dexia in the benelux, hre in germany or crédit agricole in france. this is not something that the bank resolution fund, the equity capital, the bad banks and so on will solve. but i am glad that savings deposits are being standardized, but there is no europe-wide levy on savings deposits, so that savers in countries where savings are high do not have to pay for failing banks in other countries. i would like to conclude by stressing that the ecb's legal basis for banking supervision remains uncertain. this is not the least of the reasons why the ecb insisted that the stress tests be carried out before taking on this responsibility. in this respect, the banking union is important - i will agree - but it is not a panacea.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner barnier, minister venizelos, fellow rapporteurs, rapporteurs, shadow rapporteurs, shadow rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it is a particular honour for me to be able to conclude the debate on banking union in this house today after five years of debate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but my aim is to send a clear signal to the outside world, starting from this house, at the end of the debate. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. we have taught all those critical voices who would not have bet a whistle on us, who no longer believed in our power to make things right here, a better lesson. we are going to take the taxpayers - as i said earlier - out of the front line of fire, and put them in the back. we will make states safer in the face of banking crises that will occur in the future. but we have done everything we can to ensure that banking crises in the future are less frequent and more controlled than they have been in the past. we did our homework! there is still a lot of work to be done for the next election period, for future generations of colleagues in this house, in the council and in the commission. but today the most important message for the people of europe is: europe has once again shown that it is capable of emerging stronger from the deepest crises. it was precisely crises that brought this europe forward, and the economic and financial crisis also brought europe forward. today we are putting an end to a project which will bring greater stability to the citizens not only of the euro zone but of the whole european union. it's going on!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i would like to begin by expressing my deep appreciation on behalf of my group, the socialist group, to the rapporteurs and the rapporteur for the really excellent work they have done. and i would also like to thank the european commission for the fact that you, mr mimica, have just said that you want to reinstate the precautionary principle, just as the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has done. this is a very important area, especially for product safety. it is about wanting good and safe products in the european union. that is why it is very important that we ensure that safety labelling is actually introduced. i don't agree with you on that. because we want citizens to be able to know with confidence what has been certified by a third party and what has not, and this is particularly true for dangerous products and, more importantly, for products aimed at children, toys and other products. we want to make sure that they are really safe and that the citizens, when they are in the shop, can really understand that. this is extremely important for us social democrats. i would therefore ask you to reconsider this. we are also open to discussion about how we are going to organise this. but it should be safe. we also know from rapex that traceability of dangerous products is a very problematic issue. according to rapex, which only reports the worst cases, at least 10% of products are not traceable. that is what the european commission says. that's your statistic. that is why it is very important that we think about how we are going to deal with this issue, and for example, to enforce and make it mandatory to use the origin marking system, so that we can ensure that the safety of citizens is guaranteed here too.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we agree on the basic direction and thrust of the package of legislation, namely the improvement of product safety and market surveillance. but that is precisely why we liberals in the committee voted against mrs schaldemose's report and are the only group to have proposed the deletion of article 7. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. for two reasons: firstly, the eu safety tested marking, a kind of ce+ marking, which imposes thousands of additional bureaucratic costs, especially on small and medium-sized enterprises, to test products that are in some cases absolutely safe. for most of these products, there are no standards for testing. how are they supposed to be tested? not only business associations, but also consumer associations are strongly opposed to this. the second is the mandatory country of origin principle, or 'made in'. we want - at any rate we german liberals and many colleagues from the liberal group - to keep the made in. we don't want to abolish it. it's a seal of approval. we want to preserve it as a seal of quality and a mark of quality. but that is not what the regulation is about. the regulation is about product safety. is a product designed, developed and engineered in europe but mainly produced in china, so that it is made in china somewhere, less safe than a product made in the eu? no, not necessarily. the regulation contains provisions which are misleading to the consumer. that is why we are against these regulations, as is the european consumers' association anec, which has been strongly opposed to them. mrs gebhardt, you must explain why the minister for economic affairs, mr gabriel, who is the leader of your party, is also against this regulation. let us accept this amendment, let us delete article 7 and thus open the way to better product safety and to the maintenance of the made in/made in germany quality label - we want to secure it!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would also like to express my gratitude to the rapporteurs, especially mrs schaldemose, because without mrs schaldemose we probably would not have had the commission's initiative. i can remember very well that we have been working for over five years now to finally get better market surveillance in europe, because we are both firmly convinced that the best policies are useless if market surveillance is not strengthened and if it does not have common standards. the problem is simply - and this is the sad part of the debate today - that this directive, as proposed by the commission, will never come about because it is blocked in the council. i know that both rapporteurs have tried to do everything they could to break the deadlock, but it has not worked. that means the blockade will continue. i would like to take this opportunity of today's debate to ask the commission to consider on its own how it can lift the blockade. because we really need a well-functioning market surveillance. but i am afraid that these two regulations contain proposals which have distorted them and made them unacceptable to the member states. i would therefore be grateful if the commission would separate the chaff from the wheat and concentrate on the main points which really contribute to greater consumer safety and strengthen market surveillance. i personally believe that a country of origin designation based on a customs code and nothing else , where only the country where the last increase in value took place is recorded, does not contribute to consumer safety but rather to consumer confusion.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we in the epp group have always fought for and supported the commission's proposal to improve market surveillance and market surveillance in europe so that consumer products can be better controlled in the end. but this requires monitoring staff and monitoring capacity in the member states. what we are deciding today is an aim without result, because it will not be implemented in the end by the member states in this form. that's why we didn't achieve the goal we wanted to achieve. we have done the whole thing a disservice by bringing political considerations into a purely economic question. i am aware, of course, that in many countries there is a belief that if certain consumer products bear the seal of origin according to different criteria, consumers will be more inclined to buy certain products. but we must also say quite frankly that this is a political story and that political decisions in economic policy - as mr fox and mrs rühle have already pointed out - are not always the right decisions. so we just need a sober analysis of facts, figures, not emotions, of what this proposal might end up doing. only then can it be successful. i am very grateful to the commissioners for trying to find compromises with the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. unfortunately, that cannot happen until the next parliamentary term.
thank you very much, mr. cashman. i take note of your explanation. i'm very sorry you're taking this step. i have to take him up on it. you have indicated in your letter that this was a decision of the conference of presidents, which was unanimous. i regret your resignation, but i cannot change the facts.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the vote on the banking union, the ferreira report, i should like to make a brief remark and address a few colleagues here. the banking union - we all know this - is certainly a historic project, and the adoption we are about to make today will be one of the highlights of the work of this parliamentary term. its importance - and i have presented it to the european council on behalf of this house - is certainly historical and comparable only to the single market. parliament has spent enormous energy on the negotiations. in the enormous work that should have been done to break the toxic link between bank debt and sovereign debt and to impose clear rules on failing banks, some members of this house have, i think, made extraordinary achievements. i want to say this before this vote. this was a line of five strong women and one fighting man who fought tremendously for parliament in these negotiations. i would therefore like to express my gratitude as president of this house to mrs elisa ferreira, mr corien wortmann-kool, mrs sharon bowles, mrs sylvie goulard, mrs victoria ford and mr sven giegold, who have fought to the very end for this parliament, even to the point of physical exhaustion. (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - i would like to make the following statement on behalf of the council, in the context of what has been agreed with the european parliament and before the vote: as regards the ratification of the intergovernmental agreement, i can confirm, on behalf of the council, that the signatories to the intergovernmental agreement on the transfer and mutualisation of contributions to the single resolution fund are ready to declare that they will endeavour to complete its ratification process, in accordance with their respective national legal requirements, in due time to enable the single resolution mechanism to be fully operational by 1[nbsp]january 2016.
member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to take a few seconds to add my thanks to the thanks you, mr president schulz, have addressed to a number of members who have worked very hard on this text, starting with mrs ferrera's report and the fictitious rapporteurs. this morning i had the opportunity to take a more complete look at the 41 regulatory, transparency and accountability texts that we have drawn up and implemented together with parliament, with the support of the various presidencies, including the greek presidency. the banking union is clearly the cornerstone because everyone has understood that the stability or instability of the euro area is the stability or instability of the whole single market, for which we are jointly responsible. finally, we have brought transparency, accountability - dare to say the words "morality" and "ethics" again - where they had disappeared - and put financial markets back where they should be, namely, at the service of the real economy, citizens, consumers and businesses instead of at their own service, as has been seen too often in the last thirty years. this work has been made possible by all of you, ladies and gentlemen, because i have quoted 41 texts this morning and because all the groups in this house, through their rapporteurs and their members, have participated in one way or another in this work of regulation and supervision to restore citizens' confidence and to re-establish the foundations of stability, which are the precondition for growth, employment and competitiveness. i wanted to join in your thanks. (applause) i would like to thank
member of the commission. - madam president, on the klute report on payment accounts, the commission statement will be transmitted to parliament’s services in writing and attached to the minutes of this plenary sitting for your consideration. i would also like to use this occasion to draw your attention to the fact that several declarations on behalf of the commission were also made with regard to the agreements reached between the co-legislators on the following legislative files: the baldassarre report on the disclosure of non-financial and diversity information by certain large companies and groups; the ferber report on markets in financial instruments; the riquet report on marine equipment; and the roithová report on pressure equipment.
on the recourse to eba regulatory technical standards for the adoption of the eu standardised terminology:‘the commission considers that the recourse to eba regulatory technical standards for the adoption of the eu standardised terminology is inconsistent with article 10 of regulation (eu) no 1093/2010 (oj l 331/12 of 15.12.2010) since determining the list of the most representative services at eu level, together with corresponding common terms and definitions, cannot be regarded as a purely technical matter but entails strategic decisions or policy choices.’ on the transposition of the provisions on access to a payment account with basic features:‘the commission considers that the reference to a “binding” framework in article 16(10) of the directive should be interpreted in compliance with the court’s case-law on the transposition of directives in the legal order of member states, according to which the provisions of directives must be implemented with unquestionable binding force.’ on the longer implementation period for member states where the equivalents of a fee information document and statement of fees already exist at national level:‘the commission considers that the introduction of a longer implementation period for member states to adopt the common format and symbol of the fee information document and statement of fees where the equivalents of these documents already exist at national level, introduces an unjustified difference in the treatment between member states. the commission also notes that the directive does not contain any explanation on the objective reasons identified for such a difference in treatment.’
the commission notes that the co-legislators have included in the final compromise text a provision according to which the commission would be required to produce guidelines after consultation of stakeholders, within 24 months of the entry into force of the directive. while recognising the usefulness of such guidance, the commission is of the view that the adoption of non-binding guidelines by the commission should not be subject to procedural obligations laid down in the legislative act since the commission has its own autonomous right under the treaty to issue such guidance. thus, the commission considers that the obligation to consult stakeholders laid down in article 1a cannot affect this right. for these reasons, the commission notes that this wording is without prejudice to the position the commission may take on similar matters in the future.
ladies and gentlemen, the block on which we are voting here, my report and the others, is the biggest investment in research and innovation and the sustainability of the european union that we have ever made: over 22 billion euros. i would like to thank colleagues across all parties who have worked on this for over three years under horizon 2020. i would like to thank my co-rapporteur, teresa riera madurell, and i would like to thank the outgoing rapporteur, mrs maria da graça carvalho, who has been making european research policy for many years and has a special record in this area. thank you very much. (applause from the centre)
in writing. - the fdp welcomes the adoption of the regulation which reconciles actions and liabilities and stipulates that in future the risks incurred by banks will be borne largely by the banks themselves and not by the taxpayer. we regret that we have not been able to get the idea to be adopted that savings banks and volksbanken, which have their own institutional guarantee, should be exempted from contributing to the bank resolution funds.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on the good work we have done together in the last few weeks and months. this is an important step taken by the european union and parliament today. we will indeed succeed in calling on and pressing member states to comply with their national policy frameworks in the future, which will then also set out binding objectives for the next time. we have also managed to ask the european commission to present its so-called action plan by 2018 so that we can reconcile the different starting points that have not allowed us to set binding targets now and then achieve this target next time, in the 2018 action plan. with this law we will have a very good chance of minimizing and reducing dependence on oil from countries like russia and other countries and actually also setting a good example, for example with the standard charging plug for electric cars.
i have to say, madam president, the clock is ticking earlier and earlier, which means that we have little time anyway, and it will be ten seconds before our microphone is turned on. i have agreed to the report on weights and measures. i also think it is a good achievement by the rapporteur, who has really followed this emotional subject with a lot of sensitivity. the european commission has unfortunately not been very sensitive to this matter. it has tried to allow these crossborder links between these monster trucks, which has been resolved here in the european parliament with a proper result, namely an impact assessment, for the next period. i think that the agreement is a good one and that we should stick to it. i think that the commission should also consider whether we could have found a middle way between these big monster trucks and the legitimate interests of those who do not want to see the railway system replaced by the road. i think that we must act in this context once again.
i have to say, madam president, i have agreed to this report on the altered dimensions and weights of lorries. it's a real sign that we have more safety on the roads by changing cabin trim, that we also have more wind-slippery - more aerodynamic - by changing the trucks. i also think it's great that we're now allowed to transport a 45-foot container on trucks. this was not possible before, and this is what, along with 40-foot containers, must be on the road internationally today if we are to handle the traffic. over 80% of transport is by truck, so it is important to increase efficiency on the road as well. what i do not like is that today the clarification has not been approved that such trucks can of course cross borders. there is no european law that prohibits any means of transport from crossing the border in the single market. it was just irritation. it would therefore have been good to have made it clear that longer lorries, if both member states agree, can also officially cross the border. we need truck traffic in the future. we want more rail and waterways, of course, but we need trucks for the internal market.
in writing. - we have achieved that in future only national central banks, credit institutions and regulated companies with sufficient capital can act as custodians of open-ended public funds. comprehensive investor protection is ensured by separating ucits investments from the assets of the depositary and by providing them with separate protection under national law in the event of the depositary's insolvency. the depositary shall be fully liable for any loss. with the remuneration policy for fund managers, we are finally minimizing the incentives to take far too high risks. the transparency of remuneration is further enhanced and is now in line with the aifm directive. bonuses may be paid out as cash or in kind, subject to performance and delay. serious offences such as embezzlement will now be severely sanctioned. we must be consistent here. national supervisory authorities are encouraged to cooperate more closely. after tough negotiations in the trilogue, we have reached a good compromise which has been widely accepted by all parties.
i have to say, madam president, first of all, i would like to thank all those who have contributed to the fact that after years of blockade in the council a compromise has finally been reached, which i hope will be adopted by all in the vote tomorrow. because a limited right to claim supplementary pension rights when moving to another eu country prevents people from being able to take full advantage of their right to work anywhere in europe. we have fought for a long time to remove this obstacle to the free movement of workers. a secure, state-run and solidarity-based pension system must, however, be the basis for ensuring that our citizens have a good pension and also for protecting them from poverty in old age. in view of the demographic change, we must also support people with supplementary occupational pensions. and what is already true of the taking of statutory pension rights from one country to another must therefore also be true of supplementary pensions. people who move within europe to work in another member state must not be punished for doing so. i told you before . after years of blocking by the member states, a balanced compromise has finally been reached at second reading, and i really hope that there will be a majority in favour of it tomorrow. the adoption of this directive is an important step towards a more social europe, but we still have a long way to go.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud in the european union. this results in wage slavery methods, as documented in german slaughterhouses. the aim of this implementing directive is to ensure that posted workers actually receive the minimum wage applicable in the country of employment. we can argue whether the implementing directive is the ideal instrument for this. the fact is that we, as co-decision-makers, have designed the legal instrument in such a way that the situation for the workers concerned has improved. we have established their right to information, we have obliged the member states to set up points where workers are informed of their rights. the member states must actively combat pseudo-independence. in cases where this is revealed, we have put in place a safeguard clause for the workers concerned. so far there has been no regulation at all. member states are obliged to cooperate in order to detect and punish fraud. and member states must take action against letterbox companies. for the first time - and i would like to stress this again - there is a general contractor liability clause in eu law. we know that only eight member states have such a system, 20 have not. so it is an important first step for this important efficient instrument. the member states which have one can go further. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. member states may decide on their own controls. it would therefore be a grave mistake to vote against this directive. we greens are voting for it.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the european legislator, when it acts, must take effective action against wage dumping and for equal pay for equal work in the same place. we are not doing that with this directive! i do not want to hide the fact that we have made some improvements, that is not the point of contention. but the main points are not resolved by this draft directive on which we are voting tomorrow. firstly, the question of controls is a closed list. it makes it more difficult for member states to deal effectively with the growing spread of organised crime in this area. it's more of a complication that we have. secondly, in order to control effectively, the host country must be able to know in advance who is coming and not follow up with checks. this directive does not solve that. thirdly, a key point to tackle this would be general contractor liability - we are not improving it. it would be up to the european legislator, as in other areas of activity, for example in the working time directive, to immediately adopt a european legal framework for this. this directive does not. and it precludes us from working on the posting of workers directive and this implementing directive for the next five years. so it's not a big move, not even a milestone. it is a half-hearted step which does not really eliminate the problem, on the backs of the posted workers.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as a european, i am not concerned with xenophobia or protectionism, but with social justice and good working conditions for all workers. i would like to emphasize that the instrument of posting is a positive thing in the european internal market. we have, however, taken action to put an end to abuse, illegality, wage and social dumping. what's on the table now is far from it. it's more likely to play into the hands of these rat catchers, because we have minimal and partial cosmetic changes. it would have been important to have included a time limit in the text. it would have been important not to formulate non-binding definitions but clear definitions: what is a posted worker? what is a sending enterprise? but what's in the text is not binding. we should have had liability throughout the subcontracting chain and also limit subcontracting, because that is where the abuse takes place. we need effective control and sanction mechanisms. that is also very insufficient! we need to insist on the principle of workplace abuse, because that opens the door to abuse, because it is cheaper and not punished accordingly. we need coordination, european coordination of work controls. i'm very disappointed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. more fairness for posted workers. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products. we must also ensure the safety of our entrepreneurs. that is what is going to come out tomorrow, and that is a great success of this posting directive. what you are doing here, ladies and gentlemen of the left, is nothing but campaign rhetoric. they do not want new jobs, they do not want new jobs, they do not want a social market economy! martin schulz is the one who wants to bring down our social market economy. if i have just heard my colleague from the spd, i must say: good night, europe, and not departure in europe. we can be proud of this compromise, which was drawn up by our colleague mrs jazłowiecka, and we should make use of it. if trade unionists and leftists from all over europe now want to destroy everything we have achieved in this single market with nationalist interests, with self-interest, with self-indulgence, then they will get the receipt, and on 25 may, at these european elections. we want the social market economy for all our workers, but also for our entrepreneurs. and if we can make such a compromise possible together tomorrow, then that is good, and that is why we will support it tomorrow.
member of the commission. - mr president, i believe parliament and the commission agree that there is a need to improve the way the existing posting of workers directive is applied and enforced within the member states. there have been many concrete references in the debate to specific cases from the past. in fact the enforcement directive is exactly about either preventing or resolving such controversies much faster and more efficiently and effectively than in the past. although the current text perhaps does not represent the perfect result for some of you individually, i think it is important to remember that, when compromises are struck, there is give and take on both sides. so please do not say that you gained nothing if you have not gained everything you originally wanted to achieve. this enforcement directive brings meaningful improvements on many fronts. moreover, the current text is a good compromise, both for posted workers, who will be better protected, and for businesses, who will have more transparency and legal clarity and a more level playing field in the single market. those who still prefer to polarise this debate should not forget that in reality there is no sharp separation of sending and receiving countries in europe. for example, germany and france are indeed significant receiving countries of posted workers, but they are also major sending countries. our effort has to be about improving conditions and fighting fraud and abuse without a prohibitive amount of administrative burden. in my view, excessive administrative obligations would not improve, but rather diminish, the employment opportunities of many workers in eu member states. i therefore strongly call on you to vote in favour of the compromise enabling adoption at first reading. we need to take this important step to improve the current situation and provide for a number of appropriate tools necessary to increase the effective implementation, application and enforcement in practice of the existing posting of workers directive. adopting this text also sends a clear signal, on the eve of the european elections, that europe does not accept fraud and abuse at the expense of posted workers. those concerned about social dumping should welcome this opportunity. of course this is not the last, and not the only, measure to strengthen social europe in the fight against social dumping. for example, enforcing minimum wage legislation and the fight against undeclared work, on which we launched a new initiative last week, and giving more support to social dialogue in all eu countries, are all equally important in this area. we have to do a lot for more and better jobs in europe but, within the context of posted workers, very concrete and effective measures have been put on the table and i wish this to be supported by the house.
president-in-office of the council. - mr president, i am very glad that a large number of members of this parliament concluded that this is a good deal. indeed, it has the potential to improve the situation on the ground, to guarantee the rights of posted workers and further facilitate the provision of services. it puts in place a platform for stronger cooperation between national authorities by facilitating inspections and ensuring more transparency regarding the rights and obligations linked to posting. as a new element, this enforcement directive improves cross-border enforcement of fines and penalties. it also defines member states’ responsibilities to verify compliance with the rules laid down in the 1996 directive. it clarifies the definition of the posting situation, in order to avoid the multiplication of letterbox companies that do not exercise any genuine economic activity in the member state of origin, but rather use posting in order to by-pass the law. another positive element of the new directive is that it improves the enforcement of rights and the handling of complaints, by requiring that both host and home member states ensure that posted workers can lodge complaints and take legal or administrative action against their employees if their rights are not respected. this directive also contains provisions regarding undeclared work and bogus self-employment, which were introduced at the initiative of the european parliament. overall, without saying that this is an ideal text – and i do not consider it perfect – i believe that it is a very strong step for social europe and i hope that this parliament will vote in favour of this directive tomorrow.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday, 16 april 2014, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr frédéric daerden, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on enhanced cooperation between public employment services (c7-0177/2013 - a7-0072/2014).
member of the commission. - mr president, once again i thank the rapporteur mr daerden for his contribution to reaching an agreement with the council on the public employment services decision. members discussed this proposal today in the context of the very high unemployment level in the european union. however, today it is the case not only that we are facing a very high level of unemployment, but that the eu is very diverse or even polarised in terms of employment performance. when you drive through countries like austria or regions like bavaria, which i did on sunday, you cannot escape the thought that something is working very well in these places from the point of view of employment, and the public employment services are indeed part of the answer. on the other side, in many countries, especially in the eurozone periphery, there are still enormous problems today. this is not only due to the weaknesses of the public employment services but this is almost always a part of the complexity of problems. there is certainly no silver bullet to resolve the current employment crisis. we do indeed have to work on better macroeconomic conditions and we have to find solutions to boost investment. however, we also have to work on improving the functioning of labour markets, and that is why working for better-functioning employment services is so crucial. the new network of public employment services will help increase the performance of these services through mutual learning and technical assistance projects. but the political importance of this network goes much further. two years ago, in the employment package in response to the recession, we outlined the vision for a european labour market. for many people in the european union today a job abroad is the only short-term solution to unemployment, and for various reasons, such as a better knowledge of foreign languages or falling transport costs, we have to expect further increases in mobility. we need to help those who want to take advantage of the freedom of movement in the eu. however, it is wrong to assume that this proposal is just about labour mobility. the implementation of very important commitments like the youth guarantee also depends on much better functioning public employment services in several eu member states. that is why today’s proposal is so important, and that is why i believe this has to be supported.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 16 april 2014, at 6 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 5.50 p.m. and resumed at 6 p.m.)
the recovery of cultural treasures is one of the greatest challenges facing europe today. it is a sensitive issue which relates to respect for countries which have cultural treasures and i think it would be an act of solidarity if some people changed their attitude, particularly some museums in the uk and germany. we ask for two things. the first is to not limit ourselves to items that have left a country recently, but to expand the catalogue to include treasures from previous years. we also ask that the commission be called upon to create a european catalogue in which museums will list all the objects that have left a country and which must be returned to it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have forgotten that plastic is also an important achievement of our society as a packaging material. plastics are essential for the preservation and protection of many foods and other goods. at the same time, we all agree that plastic is a particular hazard as waste. plastic bags in particular are a major environmental problem. reducing plastic consumption - and that's why it has to be seen in the foreground - is actually the most important thing we have to focus on. the european waste hierarchy requires us to reduce consumption, recycle and recycle. but above all, the consumer must be given objective information on how to handle these bags. i do not think that national bans on plastic bags in individual member states are appropriate. they violate the basic principles of our internal market and the free movement of goods. we don't want a patchwork carpet that's banned in a few countries. this is a trade barrier and ultimately confuses consumers. it is those member states with appropriate fees that are achieving the greatest success in reducing plastic bags. commissioner, you mentioned it: for example, ireland was able to reduce its annual per capita consumption from over 300 bags to 21 bags almost overnight with a small fee. the so-called biodegradable bags are not a solution to pollution either. i support what you have said on this subject. the term 'bio' is used in a misleading way. the materials are more than half petroleum, and they don't completely decompose in the environment. biodegradable bags are no more environmentally friendly than conventional plastics. it is not justified to give these bags a preferential position on the market and to sell them at half the price to consumers. bio-bags also have a high material consumption, including renewable raw materials. and probably in a few years we'll be discussing the question of "bag or plate". we need a lot more research and innovation on this. i warn you against making hasty political decisions now that you will have to undo in a few years. this is likely to be my last speech in this parliament. i hope that after 20 years as a member of parliament i will be able to say that we have laid a good foundation for the next parliament to be able to continue its work in the second reading.
i have to say, madam president, commissioner potočnik, i very much welcome this directive because it is part of the eu's flagship for 2020, a resource-efficient europe. we need more of it to avoid waste and to shift consumption patterns towards sustainable development. we see from country to country that there is a lot of air in this issue: some have a low consumption of plastic bags, others have extremely high consumption. so you can do something without losing wealth. i took a test outside my front door. i have a vegetable stand outside my front door. the saleswoman told the customers, "it's 20 cents a bag now". the decline was 70% from one saturday to the other. once it costs something, people don't want to have every orange, every piece of fruit packed in a plastic bag. that is the experience of ireland and finland. so: create incentives and also make sure that we get fully biodegradable packaging. this is the way! i would like to thank the rapporteur, who has been very ambitious, and the committee.
in writing. the figures on plastic waste in europe clearly show that the european union is forced to act and that, contrary to some claims, this is not a legislative initiative à la light bulb ban or showerhead regulation. the fact that 100 billion plastic bags are circulating in europe and that three quarters of the waste in european seas is plastic is proof enough that member states need to work together on this issue. but again, there is some debate about the "how": it is certainly not expedient to blindly ban plastic bags. it would have made sense, rather, if parliament had voted in favour of improved and increased recycling. perhaps a europe-wide minimum price for plastic bags would have been useful. recent research also shows that blind faith in biodegradable bags is not justified. these bags are fully degradable only with a high industrial effort and are also mainly made of petroleum-based plastic. for these reasons i voted against the report in its present form, although i am very much in favour of the principle that in a hundred years' time our plastic waste as we know it will not be found in our environment.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr coelho, for his outstanding work and also my fellow shadow rapporteurs and all the staff who have been working on it. indeed, i think we have achieved quite a lot with this regulation. we have finally put in place a binding rescue-at-sea regulation and this is really an achievement, when i recall how much the council has been opposed to that. we have put into place a definition of what constitutes a situation of rescue at sea so that member states finally cannot turn a blind eye any more to people who are in need. we have managed to put in place quite a number of safeguard mechanisms for refugees and we have also prevented push-backs on the high seas. so that is already good and i think we, as a parliament, have also achieved this against the council. for that, thank you again to the rapporteur mr coelho but – and here i have to insert a ‘but’ – this regulation does not put in place, it does not put into reality, what the european court of human rights has been calling for. the court has been setting out very concrete criteria for when putting people back into third countries, pushing them back or disembarking them in third countries is allowed and when it is not allowed. because the question here, the core question, is how can we identify people in need? the european court of human rights has put the personal circumstances of each person at the core of this question. it has said that each person has to be assessed individually, and this is not now the case in each and every circumstance. the court has also said that people have to be able to explain their reasons why they should not be sent back to third countries and why they are in need of protection. how is this supposed to be possible if interpretation will only be provided by radio and not on board the ship? also, the court said that refugees have to be able to lodge an appeal, to have the legal means to appeal against being pushed back into third countries, against being disembarked in third countries, and this not the case. you might argue that it is impossible to put that in place on the high seas and yes, we have been saying that, but what the european court of human rights has said is not being put into place. we cannot simply make laws disregarding what the court of human rights tells us to do. we cannot simply overrule a court decision and then say maybe we can find another refugee who has survived this journey and is able to lodge an appeal at the court. they have been putting minimum standards in place. the court has been putting in place what should be the absolute minimum for how we make regulations and we should not go below that, but that is absolutely what is happening now with this regulation. human rights have to be valued everywhere. the rule of law has to apply to everybody, also to refugees.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the right to life is the most important thing a person has. there is no higher right. if a regulation is needed to recognise this right to life also for refugees, then this will already cast a significant light on the eu and its member states, who cannot avoid being partly responsible for the deaths of 19 000 people at the eu's external borders, because that is the balance sheet. this regulation partially implements the high seas judgment and makes it mandatory for frontex operations to respect the law of the sea, a matter of course which has been neglected in the fight against illegal migration. the gain of the regulation this is certainly right is the clear definition of the principle of non-refoulement in accordance with international human rights standards. positive is also that the human rights abusing pushbacks are banned and must be banned and there must be detailed reporting of incidents and actions. but the fight against so-called illegal migration is out of the question, as the established possibility of disembarking refugees in third countries shows time and again. imagine a frontex operation facing 3,000 refugees on the high seas, who are being intercepted. on board the ship, every means should be used to identify the persons, to assess their personal situation. all this is happening on the high seas, with 300 people. and then there's all kinds of other people, interpreters, lawyers and, and, and. but it is only to be used to the full. whether it is actually identified, whether it is actually explained and evaluated for the individual person remains open. on this basis, however, a disembarkation or not is then made. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the european union's financial interests against fraud is based on the principle of proportionality. the lack of prospects for refugees remains, it will not change, and we are not satisfied with that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. let me make a preliminary remark. this is not just about political persecution and fleeing war. as long as we live in a secure europe, and poverty and instability prevail elsewhere, forced migration will continue. and we cannot turn a blind eye to these challenges. the european community of values has a great responsibility in this respect. however, the challenges arising from this situation cannot be solved by asylum policy alone. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. we also need safe legal bridges to europe for those who are politically persecuted, such as humanitarian visas. we need access for those who simply want to work with us. this can only work together with the member states, and we must work on it. as regards the regulation itself, 'pushbacks' are expressly prohibited. safe coastal monitoring is permitted but has not been implemented with frontex. the principle of rescue at sea and non-refoulement is also explicitly reinforced. eligibility for international protection must be assessed on an individual basis, including access to legal advice and translation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the regulation does not solve all the challenges, but it does create improvements in the interests of refugees as well. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter.
the first item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission 100[nbsp ]years after the outbreak of the first world war: lessons learned and the future of europe (2014/2670(rsp)). i would point out to the members of the house that there is no catch-the-eye procedure in this debate and that no blue cards will be accepted. ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to commemorate the beginning of the first world war 100 years ago. in 2014, this human catastrophe is present in all debates. we will also be discussing today, i'm sure, the brutality of this murderous conflict, the senselessness of this mass death, which is still deeply disturbing to people today. this first industrial war in europe was a war in which modernity showed its ugly face for the first time in the history of the 20th century. we are all deeply disturbed to this day when we see the images of this gigantic killing machine that has been unleashed and has developed an enormous force of destruction on our continent. we must remember that 100 years ago, 65 million men were soldiers, and almost one in six of them died. that was 6,000 dead soldiers every day. a look at the maps shows that in the west there was a front that stretched from the north sea to the swiss border. there was a front in the east, which was unlike this front in the west, which was rigid, which was mobile. it moved hundreds of kilometers in a short time, while the one in the west moved by a few millimeters over years. i would like to quote the german historian and political scientist herfried münkler, who wrote, i think, correctly: 'a fury was unleashed which came suddenly and with tremendous force upon the people. the eastern front became, he writes, the place of the gallows and the hanged. and in the west -- here you can only, i think, quote erich maria remarque -- it was the generation that was destroyed by war, the generation that was destroyed by it, even if it escaped the shells. seven million dead civilians along with countless dead soldiers - the first catastrophe of the 20th century. the great war that gave rise to all the subsequent disasters, as american historian fritz stern described it, has defined the timeline to this day. in many countries of our union people are commemorating the beginning of this war this year. each people remembers this war according to its experience. the differences in sentiment are: for some it is victory, for others defeat, for some a downfall, for others to this day a national rebirth. in any case, this war represents a profound break in the history of our continent. one result of this war was another war. the result of these two catastrophes - and also a response to this period in history - is the cooperation of peoples and states across borders in common institutions. one of those organs is us. we, the members of this parliament, representatives of these 28 countries, some of which did not exist then in the form in which they exist today, but which today form a union as sovereign states, represent the community of peoples of europe. the european parliament, in its form and its work, is also an answer. that is why i think it is appropriate that this debate should take place in this house this morning.
i thank you very much, mr daul. mr daul, you have thanked so many people, both the staff of your group and the colleagues in the house. given that this was your last plenary speech as president of the epp group, i feel i speak on behalf of the whole house when the european parliament thanks you. you represent, in your person, a european spirit which has not only served this house but has benefited it and done it good, regardless of political differences. we wish you all the best from the bottom of our hearts. thank you very much on behalf of the citizens of europe! (applause from the centre)
thank you very much, mr swoboda. mr swoboda, your last speech in this house is certainly an occasion for me to thank you too for the great work you have done in this house. in various activities you have done this house a great service with your intelligence and your worldly knowledge. i would also like to say a personal word to my friend here: the european parliament has gained a great deal through hannes swoboda. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a parliamentary mandate. i think it will remain as rich as your life in the european parliament. but i think i can say on behalf of all my colleagues that you are, like the other two who are making their last speeches today, among the bridge builders in this parliament. without that ability, this house couldn't function. good luck and thank you for your great work. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank you very much, mr cohn-bendit. mr cohn-bendit, that was your last speech in this house. the european parliament has been a very important institution in the past, and it is a very important institution in the future. i would like to add my voice to what guy verhofstadt said. there are many in this house who share his sentiment: it is a great privilege to have you as a friend. but a man who has you for a friend doesn't need any more enemies. it's a wonderful experience to be with you. you can be argued with wonderfully, but you are distinguished by one thing: the claim you make that respect is the basis of democracy, you also practice personally very credibly. they were for many, for me as a boy, for example, a point of reference in the formation of identity of a political kind. i have not chosen your political line, but another. but i know there are many in this house who have had a similar experience: they were an idol for an entire generation. and you have been a great asset to this parliament in every way. the european parliament will certainly miss you. i think i speak for all my colleagues when i say good luck to you and stay as you are. but we know you're not gonna change. thank you very much. (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank the outgoing chairmen of the political groups for their cooperation. i have always appreciated the respect you have shown to those who disagree with you here in parliament. i wish you all the best, of course, but i would also like to take this opportunity to thank all the other members who are not running for re-election to the european parliament for their cooperation here in parliament and to make it clear that we are very well able to practise a different political culture here in parliament. i was very impressed, for example, when i came here from a regional parliament and noticed that it is possible to emphasize the commonalities in certain specific matters. i very much hope that we will not throw this political culture overboard, but that we will preserve and develop it. i believe that this would also be decisive for the next parliamentary term. (applause from the centre) my group, the united european left/nordic green left, organised a two-day event in brussels and ypres in march. we wanted to show, especially in cooperation with peace initiatives and european peace networks, how important it is to remember today what happened over 100 years ago. that is why i think it is important that one of our last initiatives here in the european parliament at the end of the parliamentary term should be to send a signal that the european union must never actually go to war. we also want to make sure that peace is fragile. peace is not a given, not in europe, not in the european union. it has to do with our actions together. when we visited the flanders fields museum in ypres, we were greeted by the museum director with the words: where is the european community? the heads of government will now come to ypres on 26 june, as is traditional, to the menin gate, then go to dinner and not to the museum. the visit to this museum would be extremely important because i have never seen a museum concept that is dedicated to such an event without running the risk of falling into a heroization of the events of that time, without falling into nationalism, but that makes it clear that this was a european war. it is a european task, a european mission, to prevent this from happening again. it is a question of how, after these unspeakable events, after this immense suffering for thousands of families and thousands of soldiers and their families, for the civilian population, it was possible that 25 years later this war fatigue, this frustration with war, could be swept aside. how was it possible to create hysteria and get people to say, "yes, they want total war". we have to think about it. because there is no such thing as security, as i said before. i would like to draw your attention to one more thing. i think one of my previous speakers referred to the younger generation. we can talk a lot about how we want to see the european union as a symbol of peace. but if the younger generation no longer feels that this is the big vision per se, because they have not known anything else, then it is our task not only to think from the point of view of our generation, the generation of daniel cohn-bendit or the younger generation, but to speak from their point of view about what is really preventing them from being committed to this european project. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and i hope that the council will accept it. it is no longer solidarity with the people, no matter in which region of the european union or in the neighbouring countries they live, but solidarity with the banks we produce. that's their view, that's what they're afraid of, that's what they don't believe anymore, that's what they don't take away from us. what they need is to feel that we are really working together for their interests and that the people and young people in latvia who have emigrated are just as valuable and have the same right to a future, youth and life chances as migrants or members of ethnic minorities in our member states. but that's the signal we have to give. i think that any attempt to apply unequal measures here, to ignore, for example, the proclamation of hungarianness in hungary, the declaration of the protection of the hungarian state for hungarian nationals, and the declaration that every child of a hungarian citizen is automatically a hungarian, no matter where he lives, is problematic. we should not measure with unequal scales. but that's how others measure us. i would also like to make one other point very clearly: yes, the first world war was also a milestone in the technologization of the use of weapons in a negative sense. we've never had to deal with chemical weapons before. we have seen the production and use of weapons of mass destruction on a large scale. but we also experienced that there was resistance. we should also use this day to remember those who refused to go to war, who joined forces across trenches with soldiers of other nationalities who had withdrawn from the war. bertha von suttners (eldr). - (de) mr president, i should like to thank the rapporteur for his report. we should remember these forms of pacifism and at the same time ask ourselves what it means today to avoid any escalation of conflicts which could lead to a dynamism that no one can stop. i also wonder how we stand today, for example, with regard to the impunity of whistleblowers, of people who say that we are not playing this game, that we are avoiding it. this is precisely where we as the european union have a responsibility. i would also remind you of the council of europe's work on this issue. we should think about this again together, this is an initiative we could start together from brussels or strasbourg. (applause from the centre)
in writing. the debate today, 100 years after the outbreak of world war i, shows how alive the ghosts of the 20th century are. once again, borders are being moved, international law is being violated, territories are being annexed, people are taking up arms against each other under waving flags. europe is one answer. the attempt to overcome the egoism of the state. but if europe is to be a success for the people and a model for the world, we must go one step further: from the relationship between states to the relationship between people. we are tearing down national borders and establishing new ones - internal and external borders, borders that run through the heart of our countries and societies, for example, borders between rich and poor, borders between those who have and those who do not, borders between those who have jobs and those who are unemployed. and the limits are getting higher. europe must overcome the hypertrophy of state power and overcome that of economic power. europe is freedom and equality and fraternity! europe must work tirelessly for the freedom of all people, for genuine european democracy and equality before the law for all, and for an economic and social order that is oriented towards the well-being of its fellow citizens, the environment and posterity!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is no longer the time to talk about sanctions in the conjunction. it has become a major problem for ukraine that the european union, on which so many hopes were placed, has not been as consistent in its support for the civil movement as it actually deserves, also in the light of the speeches that have been made in this house. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we want on 25 may not only elections in the european union, but also in ukraine - as the majority of the elected ukrainian parliament decided with the votes of viktor yanukovych's faction - to freely and re-elect who is the president of ukraine. it would be a great shame for us if this election could not take place. that is precisely what this emerging russian government is aiming at with its strategy, first in crimea and now, as we are seeing, quite obviously in eastern ukraine. the european union must not be left to the whims of the world. we have to stop suggesting that we can't break free from this addiction, because there are alternatives. it must also be said again and again against the propaganda from moscow that no nationalist or fascist-led movement has taken power in ukraine. it is our task to emphasize again and again that in ukraine the citizens have come to realize the rule of law, to regain the validity of the law, to make a successful life possible for the ukrainians. these are the european values for which we have been fighting for a whole winter and, in fact, for years before that. it is a real disaster that many citizens in eastern ukraine today feel that they cannot count on the support of the european union. because it has become clear to me in the last few days, in individual conversations, that for individuals in ukraine, in the east, in this conflict situation, to choose now between a perceived very great power coming from moscow and the wavering spirit of the europeans behind an inexperienced and deeply insecure new government in kiev, that is very difficult, and we have not made this decision easier for the people.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. without independent analysis and reflection, a common eu foreign policy in this conflict will never emerge from the ritualised interpretations and blame-placing. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the community. that's why politics has to admit when it's made mistakes. i think that the eu's foreign policy stance on developments in ukraine is consistent but wrong. it ignores the essential elements of the genesis of the escalation around ukraine: the longstanding links between the eu commission and ukrainian oligarchs, for example mr pinchuk, whose power the maidan just wanted to see broken, the abundant us sources of money for the activities of brilliant figures such as olek rybatschuk, or the social dangers posed by the power and actions of svoboda and the right sector, as well as the political purges carried out by the new rulers. we must recognize that there are changes taking place in the ukrainian protest, which is increasingly about socioeconomic issues, which itself is no longer driven by the rightfully protesting middle class of students in the hope of democratic conditions, but by the concern of the workers in the region for their future. this protest has started to organize itself, and the eu and the us will do as putin does, to join the protest.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. there is as the osce and the council of europe report no discrimination against the russian-speaking minority in ukraine. there is a clear majority, including in eastern ukraine, for the unity and territorial integrity of ukraine. so there is no reason - although even this would not be enough - for the russians to invade there. the insurgents there are russian-led, uniformly trained, uniformly equipped, there's no doubt about that. we must see that the troops on the border build up an additional pressure potential and enforce a destabilization by a russian-led minority in order to prevent the free election of ukrainians on may 25. that is why we must do everything possible to stabilise ukraine. i am glad that the financial package is being adopted. i am glad to see that progress is being made with the international financial institutions. i think that the osce missions should be expanded. the eu and the european parliament must send observers there, especially election observers in large numbers, also for the national parliaments, to contribute in this way. we must say that ukraine has a right to territorial integrity and to self-defense. i find it impossible for putin to say: "i'm going in there with people led by me" and ukraine has no right to defend itself, but this will then be used as an alibi to intervene militarily itself. this is unacceptable. ukraine has a right to decide its own constitution, no one else. if they want to make it federal, let them do it! i think there are many approaches to this, but it must be done in a way that does not endanger the unity of the state and is not an approach to separatism. i think that's clear by now. and if we don't use the military and help - this is not a nato case - then it must be clear that we use all peaceful means to help the ukrainian people. that means sanctions in particular. if geneva fails, we should say that russia is destroying the multilateral international law that has created us peace for many decades. helsinki and all that will be destroyed. that's why this goes way beyond ukraine. it is a question of future peace throughout europe. that must be clear, and we must oppose it. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i believe that ukraine is not a nato case. we must be prepared for any attack on the borders of the nato countries - the baltic states, for example, or poland - and i believe, as i have said on several occasions, that in this situation nato will once again play an increasingly important role as part of our collective security. the european parliament, in its meeting with the national parliaments, has also insisted that all the territories of the european union must have the same level of security and that we must not make any difference. poland and the balkan and baltic states must enjoy the same level of security as germany or france. this must be clear in our inner relationship, that we can rely on each other.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i agree with most of what i have heard so far, particularly with what elmar brok has said. we expect our russian partners, if they can still be called that, not to aggravate the currently fragile situation in ukraine, and that means that they will clearly reject all calls for a protective power role. we expect russia to return and make an active contribution to the political and economic stabilisation of ukraine. we welcome the meeting in geneva tomorrow with representatives of ukraine, russia, the eu and the usa. we have been asking for this for a long time. the commissioner has pointed this out. i am convinced that today is not the right time to adopt such a resolution tomorrow. that we discuss it, agreed. the fact that mrs ashton knows what we think she has to do will certainly be conveyed to her - she does not often take part in these debates here - is also fine. but i do not think it is productive for us to adopt such a resolution, either in terms of wording or in terms of individual points. that is why some of my friends and i will not be taking part in the vote tomorrow.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr. brons, with all due respect, don't you realize that you're acting as a propagandist for dictator putin by spreading his legends? the european union has not forced ukraine into it, but rather has prevented it from doing so. that's not true at all. but ukraine made a last-minute turn and then the ukrainian people took to the streets. you're telling the exact opposite of what's really going on.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the russian aggression against ukraine shows that peace in europe remains in danger. the russian approach is deeply unreliable. in crimea and eastern ukraine, the right of russians to self-determination is allegedly defended; the european union has a duty to help the people of the caucasus, including the chechens, to achieve a similar result. the demands for this are met with military force, bombs, death and destruction. this should be an opportunity for citizens of the european union to reflect on their own values. i have been a member of the european parliament since its first election in 1979 and will be leaving it after 35 years with the election on 25 may. in 1979, europe was divided - the western part was free and democratic, the central and eastern parts were oppressed by communism. for me, it remains the miracle of my generation that my own country, the federal republic of germany, is united in freedom and that estonia, latvia and lithuania, poland, the czech republic, slovakia, hungary, slovenia, bulgaria, romania and croatia belong to the eu a community of values based on human dignity, human rights, freedom and democracy, law and peace. 'we are united in our happiness', says the berlin declaration of 25 march 2007. in the european union, law has the power, and not power - as is currently the case in russia - dictates law. when our values are threatened - from within or from without - we must defend them in solidarity. in 1979, the european parliament had no legislative powers whatsoever; the council of ministers is now the legislative body with the greatest possible equality of power. the european parliament is now an influential and decisive actor, an expression of parliamentary democracy in the european union. we all have reason to look to the future with confidence. but all that is human remains at risk. the european union is also facing major challenges, both internally and externally. each generation must prove itself to meet these challenges. i would like to ask you to continue to work towards the unification of our european continent. it is a great opportunity for us to continue to defend our values and interests in solidarity in the future. this was my last speech in the european parliament. i thank all my colleagues for 35 wonderful years. (applause from the centre and the right)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have to do two things. we must show european resolve on the one hand and we must continue the dialogue with russia on the other. the european resolve requires that we regulate matters which strengthen our sovereignty. there are enough studies. we need liquid gas terminals for northwestern europe. we must also structure the flow direction of our pipelines from west to east. we must promote domestic energy sources so that we can become independent of russian energy if we want to, and we need a large european energy market. so there are plenty of things we can do to make ourselves sovereign. but what is equally necessary - and hans-gert pöttering has just mentioned this - is that in the darkest times of the cold war, there was a dialogue with moscow. i do not want to cut all the lines to moscow because of that, but i am glad that the meeting in geneva is tomorrow. i expect there to be talks. i don't know if there are any solutions. if sanctions are to be imposed, they must be imposed. we have to talk to moscow anyway. because one thing is clear: there will never be peace in europe without or even against russia, but always only with russia. (applause from the centre)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. thank you very much, madam president. i am aware of some of the strange statements coming from your bulgarian socialist party on the subject of ukraine. you're talking about a strange chain of internal and external circumstances. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the situation in ukraine. i'm not familiar with that. why do you speak of a chain of internal and external circumstances? in ukraine, especially in the east, people actually lived well together. so what is your reasoning for seeing internal circumstances?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we must put an end to the current destabilisation of ukraine with determination and united efforts. the eu must work for reconciliation between the different factions within the country in order to strengthen ukraine. international principles are to be respected absolutely, including by russia. but the eu and russia are interdependent. a critical but constructive dialogue with president putin is also part of the solution. the people of ukraine should be allowed to choose their own path. this deserves our support. we have a responsibility for a socially and economically stable ukraine. this cannot be done without financial support on the one hand and serious political dialogue on the other. stability in the region is a cornerstone of a promising future. we must not forget the republic of moldova, the south caucasus and our eastern partnership. after 15 years in this parliament, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you and i bid you farewell.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. in order to clarify the outstanding issues in this report and out of respect for democracy, my group would ask that this regulation not be dealt with today at the last minute in accordance with rule 175 (3) but that it be referred back to the inta committee and that the committee on budgets also be given the opportunity to express its views. why would you do that? firstly, the commission has started a fundamental revision of its isds concept. this regulation is therefore outdated and does not take account of the new findings. secondly, at present all citizens, member state governments, local authorities and all stakeholders are invited to participate in the commission's consultation procedures on isds in the ttip negotiations. we therefore think that it would be a bad example of democracy to create facts by adopting the regulation before the outcome of the consultation. thirdly, the committee on budgets was not involved in this procedure and it is still unclear from which budgetary resources the fines are to be paid. it may be billions of dollars arising from liabilities incurred under this regulation. (applause from the centre)
mr president, we greens support mr scholz’s proposal to postpone the vote because, apart from what he has said, this regulation does not respect the new competences at european union level set out in the lisbon treaty, the new competences in the area of investment. given that investor-state dispute settlement (isds) cases create case-law which sets precedents for further rulings, we cannot agree with a regulation that gives member states broader rights to defend themselves in isds cases, even when the claim is directed at eu-wide regulations and their possible interpretation. so we agree that eu competences are being broken here and we should postpone the voting.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. our reporter, cătălin sorin ivan, is unfortunately not with us today because he is in the hospital. but he has authorized me, as the socialist coordinator of the committee on budgetary control, to announce here after the vote that he wishes to withdraw his name as rapporteur from this report.
in writing. - i very much welcome the fact that we have adopted today by a large majority the report by mrs paulsen on the prevention and control of animal diseases. in the field of animal diseases, which know no frontiers, a coordinated approach throughout europe is particularly necessary. without a coordinated strategy and reporting procedures, it is difficult to control animal diseases in a europe so intertwined. it is also important to focus not only on disease control but also on meaningful prevention measures. there is little that a single country can do in this area. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal welfare system is properly managed.
in writing. - i am glad that we voted today on mr fajmon's report on the protection of crop pests. the point of contention in the report was how we intend to deal with the import of plants and plant materials in the future. the committee on agriculture had proposed a complete reversal of the previous system by means of a positive list. i very much welcome the fact that the majority of parliament voted against this proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are protected. i think that by maintaining and improving the existing system, a good compromise has been found which is fair to all parties.
in writing. - i voted today against mandatory origin labelling because i consider it to be extremely unfriendly to consumers and businesses. unfortunately, i was alone with my union colleagues. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of important steps in this direction. in future, it may no longer matter whether german know-how or technology was used to produce a product. our voluntary "made in germany" label will therefore no longer exist. the new compulsory marking is linked to customs legislation. i do not see any added value for our consumers. because it will not tell you anything about the manufacturing standards, or the product quality, or the product safety. on the contrary, i am. it even misleads the consumer. finally, the scheme is entitled 'consumer protection'. it is not helping our consumers and it is also putting a burden on our companies, especially our smes, to have mandatory labelling. until now, labelling has been voluntary. in future, our companies will be burdened with more bureaucracy and costs, without gaining any competitive advantage. i could not and would not support that.
in the case of the secondment of workers to other eu member states, there is widespread abuse and social dumping at the expense of workers, social security funds and honest companies. contrary to what is intended, the enforcement directive does not solve these problems but creates new legal uncertainty. the spd delegation therefore rejects the implementation directive and continues to call for a revision of the posting of workers directive (96/71). the principle of equal pay for equal work at the same place of work must be introduced. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take any control measures they deem necessary to combat fraud and the circumvention of the law. we also call for the introduction of general contractor liability across the entire subcontractor chain and all sectors. finally, the principle of the place of work or the principle more favourable to the worker must apply to cases outside the scope of the posting of workers directive.
in writing. - freedom to form political parties is one of the basic principles of democracy. with the party statute we are adopting today, we will finally have european parties. the negotiations were a nightmare. they just kept coming. the commission's draft had to give the impression that parties were subject to european legislation and administration, dependent authorities operating from above within the framework of content-related regulations and otherwise losing their approval. the opposite is true: parties are formed from below, by the citizens. in complete freedom. they must also be able to formulate entirely new, unfamiliar and uncomfortable content. the state has completely withheld its input. we've been fighting about this for years. many of my colleagues wanted to retain or obtain the right to decide on the content of their competition. we greens, on the other hand, have fought from the beginning to ensure that this right to form a party is not subject to political control by the existing parties in the european parliament. we have always advocated a depoliticized and purely administrative procedure. we have now, after long negotiations and against the strongest opposition, achieved this through a terribly complicated legal structure. i remain hopeful that these parties will contribute to the development of a real, vibrant, citizen-centred european democracy.
in the case of the commission, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. this is why the criminal prosecution of fraud against the eu's financial interests is a crucial step in the right direction. this report contains guidelines on various crimes such as dishonesty, fraud, bribery, tender fraud, etc., which are contrary to the eu's financial interests. the commission proposal also provides for minimum penalties (imprisonment of six months). i am tending to oppose the introduction of minimum and maximum sentences in the criminal justice system. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the minimum penalties are not exceeded. the desire for uniform penalties could provoke disruptions in national penalties systems. i am not opposed in principle to the unification of the rules on sentencing and to progress in the eu in the field of criminal law, but i think that it is simply too early for that at the moment. i therefore welcome the position of the european parliament against the introduction of minimum sentences!
in writing. - on behalf of the members of the cdu/csu group, i would like to make this statement to express our criticism of the fact that mr president schulz did not allow a vote on an article in the committee's draft which he disliked. the president has no formal right to strike out a paragraph from a report which has already been voted on by the committee and presented to the plenary, and we strongly criticise the arbitrary censorship of the report which he has undertaken. we still support the substance of paragraph 47, on which we were not allowed to vote. the committee on budgetary control, like us, criticises the fact that a report from the olaf monitoring committee to the parliament's committee on budgetary control was not forwarded by the president of parliament to the committee but kept under wraps for more than two months. that a summons to testify issued by a belgian court was only forwarded to the three members concerned by the parliament's administration after a delay of three months; and that the budgetary control committee was hampered in its work by the cancellation of a hearing on the work of the task force on greece and the delay of a hearing on governance the european commission as managing authority for over a year.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i too believe that this is my last speech in this wonderful circle. and once again we are talking about the european union's own resources. for me, as a member of parliament who started dealing with this issue 20 years ago, this is the i don't know how many times. the european parliament has called for a reform of own resources long before we were born. we called them at regular intervals. we have not only asked for, but have also made concrete proposals on how we envisage the renewal of the revenue base. the commission itself, in its last proposal for the present financial framework, has attempted to make a cautious start on the reform of own resources. whether we are socialists, conservatives, liberals or greens, we all agree that something must be done! on 8 june 2011, parliament adopted by a three-quarters majority the sure report calling for the introduction of genuine own resources, away from transfers by the member states and away from repayments, exceptions and correction mechanisms, commonly known as rebates. but the council has closed itself off to all good arguments. he has consistently refused to even consider reform. and instead of at least ending the discount and exemption system, he has decided on more exemptions and has widened the circle of those who benefit from the discount. the council is only pretending to be a european institution! in reality, it is a collection of 28 national egos. these 28[nbsp ]selfish people are only interested in contributing as little as possible to the european budget and getting as much as possible out of it. this is the 'juste retour' drive. the only reason why we have now been able to persuade the council to set up a high level group on own resources is that we have to agree to the adoption of implementing rules - one of four documents - as parliament before the ratification process can begin in the member states. only after the own resources package has entered into force can the beneficiaries of the rebate benefit from their rebate. this was the decisive argument for not delaying the start of the high level group's work any further. i wish the members of the own resources group every success in the world - both the commission and the council and my colleagues. may they help to make our own resources system finally what we have always called for: simple, fair, transparent and democratically accountable!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i only have a minute, and i need to be brief. i can underline most of what the previous speakers have said. in particular, what jutta haug said - and i would like to emphasize this once again - is true of the criticism we also have of the budget and the system of own resources. so i don't want to repeat that, but i want to add another aspect that i noticed in reading last year. there is a study which points to a link between budget and currency. i think that is one aspect which we have not yet considered enough. there is very serious research that monetary communities - and there have been a number of them in the past - have only survived if they have had a reasonable sovereign budget as their basis. the budget we have at the moment in the european union is exactly what it has been described as: it is not a sovereign budget, it has no own resources, it depends on the member states. i would like to draw attention to the fact that we should definitely include this link between a currency, between the future of the euro and the budget in this debate on own resources. obviously, a currency, if it is to last, needs to be supported and subdued by a separate sovereign budget. i believe that the negotiations on the new own resources, on a new own resources regime, are an important central step towards securing the future of the euro. i think it must also be in the council's interest to continue to work on this point and to abandon the blockade.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen! i would like to turn to the practical side of the calculation of gross national income, because this practical side also says a great deal about the functioning of the system itself. three years ago, it was decided to reform this system. it should be in effect by now. what we're seeing is that there are probably many more transition problems and there have been in the past. the last reform of the conversion of the calculation was in 1995. and we see that there are still member states which are still hanging on to the last transition, let alone being able to participate in the current one. mr president-in-office of the council, perhaps you can tell us why greece was unable to send the relevant statements and data to the commission from 1995 to 2001 in order to arrive at a final calculation of the amount of own resources. the same is true of great britain. this reservation, also from the same years 1995 to 2001, was only lifted in 2013. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the total number of specific reservations in the calculation of gni own resources at the end of 2012 was 105. the vat revenue at the end of 2012 had 153 reservations. 16 of these reservations were older than 10 years. given these implementation problems, it is hard to say that this system works very well. we're backed up long and high. this is a matter of concern and it is also a point that the court of auditors regularly raises. we must ask ourselves how this current system of own resources really works and can work. because the most beautiful system depends on the implementation. and that's where action is needed! i would like to thank the two outgoing colleagues, jutta and jan, for their really good cooperation. it was a lot of fun. you're one of the colleagues i'm really gonna miss. thank you so much for everything.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. what lasts long, finally becomes good. europe is also prone to natural disasters floods, droughts, earthquakes and fires. my home region of bavaria has experienced it firsthand over the past year. the great flood last year dams have broken, and ultimately much has been destroyed. it is good that the european solidarity fund exists for this very purpose. this fund is a good example of how europe is truly united and how we help each other. it is even better that now, through the revision, we have managed to send the message to the affected regions, now and in the future: there is quick help and less bureaucracy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. that's good. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the victims of the disaster. we have made a double positive sign with this reform. firstly, europe is a place of solidarity. secondly, europe is cutting red tape. we cannot send a better message to the outside world a month before the european elections.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the reform of the european solidarity fund is right and necessary. the natural disasters we have discussed - floods, earthquakes, and even forest fires - bring need to innocent people, and it is good that help is available. as chairman of the committee on budgetary control, i was present last year at the floods along the danube and i worked to speed up the disbursement of funds for the people affected by the floods on the danube and elbe in germany, but also in the czech republic and austria, and in the other countries affected. i would like to take this opportunity to thank you, mr lewandowski, and the commission for making it possible for these funds to be made available earlier this time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european solidarity fund. we want to help unbureaucratically, help faster. i think it is perfectly acceptable that the funds come from unused structural and cohesion funds. if there are budget surpluses, we don't need new money. however, we should concentrate all our efforts to tackle the causes of the problems, for example by reducing sealing of land, by organising flood protection at the surface of the rivers. but we also need to acknowledge that global climate change can put people in an emergency situation through no fault of their own. i was in the town of barby on the elbe when i noticed that some of the homeowners affected by the floods will no longer have insurance cover because the insurance companies, although they have covered the damage, are no longer prepared to insure the homeowners affected, or if they do, at horrendous premiums. this is unacceptable. i think we also have to think about creating a different legal framework here, because people should have insurance coverage anyway. the european solidarity fund has improved the way we help people in need, and i thank all those involved. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
blue-card answer. – dear colleague, that is a very good point. i would like to answer you in english. i have considered that, and as liberals we are always fighting against bureaucratic burdens. indeed, one question, for instance, was the protection of animals and our opinion is that we should have a pragmatic approach there. therefore, i thank you very much for that intervention.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the reform of the solidarity fund is closing a long-standing gap in european regional policy. i would therefore like to thank the greek presidency, which unfortunately is not here today, because without its commitment we would not have been able to get this started. if i look back, i see that this fund was not re-established until 2002, when devastating floods in central europe cost many people their possessions and some even their lives. mr barnier then linked the fund to a commitment to prevention in a historic speech. this is where we put green back in. we have made sure - and i am proud of that - that the regulation includes the requirement that prevention must be reported. this means that the regions will only receive the money if they actually implement environmentally sound prevention measures. because one thing is clear: the rivers need their space back. only then can we be truly in solidarity with the people, only then can property, life and life be protected. i would therefore urge the commission to ensure that this progressive reform is implemented in this spirit.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are constantly shocked by images of great natural disasters that devastate entire lands, deprive people of their possessions and often cause death. in order to provide assistance in european solidarity, the european solidarity fund was adopted as a regulation in 2002. since then, more than 50 cases have seen eu assistance of over €3.5 billion in disaster damage and reconstruction in the affected regions. german regions were also affected, as in 2007 after the kyrill storm and last year after the elbe flood. this regulation continues this good practice. the content of the programme is being clarified and the bureaucratic obstacles to granting aid are being further reduced. the aid payments will be made available more quickly and effectively to member states or regions affected by major natural disasters. this is a success of the european parliament and especially of our rapporteur, mrs rosa estaràs ferragut, who has been able to prevail against the council. thank you very much, estimada rosa, for this work. but european disaster aid does not relieve member states of their obligation to take measures to prevent and detect disasters. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. all too often, the consequences of natural disasters for people and property would not have been so devastating if national and regional authorities in the member states had devoted more intensive and comprehensive efforts to disaster prevention. prevention is always better than cure, but this is also something the new regulation puts particular emphasis on.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i am grateful to be able to speak briefly as rapporteur of the foreign affairs committee for the instrument for stability and peace. the problem of humanitarian aid, which has already been discussed here, is equally present in the area for which i have this responsibility. it is a small sum, but it is a basic sum. 58 million euros are missing by the end of the year. some projects are in danger of not being able to take place, in a total of nine countries: ukraine, iraq, gaza, syria, iran, sierra leone, sudan, south sudan and the central african republic. it is a core project of the european union, it is a core competence of the european union, namely civil conflict management and conflict prevention. we are making a fool of ourselves if we are not able to provide the necessary funds! i would like to emphasize that this is not a competition with humanitarian aid, absolutely not! although it is fair to say that humanitarian aid will be needed more if prevention is not promoted. baroness ashton has pointed out this connection on several occasions. i would ask you, commissioner lewandowski, to initiate a transfer for the instrument for stability and peace, as you are already proposing for humanitarian aid.
in the case of the commission, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. without this instrument, the european parliament cannot fulfil its role of effective control of the executive. anyone who denies parliament the most basic rights of inquiry, such as the possibility of summoning witnesses and requesting documents, is - perhaps not even unintentionally - contributing to the fact that major scandals that rightly irritate citizens are often left unresolved or even hidden under the carpet. the right to a functioning inquiry committee is long overdue. we have repeatedly proposed such arrangements in parliament. and we have repeatedly declared, formally and informally, our openness and willingness to negotiate. nothing has helped. the council stubbornly refuses to negotiate with parliament and to grant it even a fraction of the rights which are self-evident and necessary. i find it scandalous that the governments of the member states deny the european parliament effective powers of control and investigation. here the goat becomes the gardener. the top executive branch denies the house of representatives the right to investigate executive misconduct. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is a question of some reports on the european union's own resources on which we have voted. i would like to say again that i am an enthusiastic supporter of equity financing. but i want to say three things to ourselves: first of all, i would ask that when we look at the own resources, we should look for a very stable source. the second point is that we must take into account that large fluctuations in revenue can eventually lead to a budget financed by credit. that's exactly what i don't want. the third point: i am always proud of the fact that the european parliament is financed by revenue and never by credit. if you look around the member states, you will see that everything started very slowly, very small, and then at some point you fall into the credit trap. i am therefore proud that we as the european parliament have never had to draw up a budget financed by credit. and i want to keep it that way.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too could agree with the report. i am aware that in my three votes today i am probably one of those who must also say a few words of admonition on the positive ductus. it is true that we must act quickly with the solidarity fund. it is true that we have also lowered the threshold from which we want to intervene. it is right that we also make advance payments. i would now like to address my words of warning to the member states: the best disaster is always the one that doesn't happen. so please do not let up on the precautionary principle either! it would also be a task for all of us in the european parliament to look at how the member states take appropriate precautionary measures. i repeat: the best disaster is the one that does not happen! but if one does occur, the european union will naturally stand together and show solidarity. that is the positive statement of the report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to stress my voting behaviour again, particularly because the vote was so close today. i voted for this report precisely in the interests of our european beekeepers and in the interests of our honey producers. i think that the time taken to implement the report will show that we have really decided in the interests of our european beekeepers. what annoyed me a little bit about the debate was the mixing of different things that were not part of the report. the report needed to clarify the role of pollen in honey, and we have rightly concluded that pollen is a natural component of honey. the question here was not whether we were for or against genetic engineering. the question here was not about labelling where the honey is produced. we naturally want to consume more honey from the region, and that is precisely what we are doing with this vote.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we voted against the report. as someone who has been a key player in the genetic engineering legislation for many years, i find the vote very regrettable. it was very close, and it is a pity that the council, the parliament and the commission have fallen on their knees before the genetic engineering industry. because the beekeepers want pure honey. they want to produce what the bees give them and what the consumers want, which is pure honey. this is precisely the legislation we have proposed: that only accidental pollution does not have to be labelled. it is also a clear blow to the ecj. the european court of justice has made it quite clear that pollen is an ingredient of honey. what did we do? we decided against it. this is not creating enthusiasm for europe - quite the contrary. consumers want a clear label. the majority of consumers do not want genetically modified products, and the beekeepers do not want to produce them either. it is therefore regrettable that parliament has allowed itself to be made into a pawn of the gene technology industry.
in writing. - i rejected the report because i do not believe that the current text is acceptable to the consumer and that it is also disadvantageous to local beekeepers. i don't think pollen is an ingredient in honey. bees can't act on their own. if consumers still choose to buy non-genetically modified honey, they buy from their local beekeeper and can be almost absolutely sure of receiving the product.
member of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, thank you for this opportunity to discuss the court of justice judgment from a couple of days ago. the commission has welcomed the clarity brought by the court on the validity of the data retention directive. the ruling generally confirms some of the critical conclusions of the commission evaluation of 2011 of the implementation of the directive, and we had the possibility to discuss that with the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs two years ago. the court has decided that the data retention directive does not meet the principle of proportionality and should have provided more safeguards. other issues that the court raises are access and use by national authorities, the definition of serious crime, data security measures, the retention period and the location of retained data, as well as the need to differentiate between individuals on the basis of their closeness to activities, giving rise to criminal prosecution, and the protection of professional secrecy. the commission evaluation report pointed to some of these issues as well. at the same time the court considers that data retention as such does not adversely affect the essence of fundamental rights. but, the court emphasised the need to respect the principle of proportionality and establish strict conditions for this to be the case. it recognises that some limitation to fundamental rights could be justified in the name of a legitimate and general interest – namely the fight against serious crime and terrorism. from the commissionʼs side we have already started the reflection on whether there is a need or not for a new legislative proposal. this, in that case, would be for the next commission to take up. the judgment of course underlines the need for a swift adoption of the proposed data protection reform and, in particular, the draft directive which applies to the law enforcement sector.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first, the judgment. the judgment of the european court of justice makes it clear, first of all, that europe has grown up a bit. politics - parliament and the council of ministers - decide, that is true, but a court - the european court of justice - controls us. and it is right that we, as legislators, are also under the control of our court. the fundamental rights of our citizens are protected by the european court of justice, and the legislator is not above fundamental rights. that's the signal that went out. that is extremely positive. i would like to emphasize that as a member of parliament. the national courts should also see this signal. it is a positive signal, especially towards the german constitutional court in karlsruhe, that the rule of law is functioning in europe. the value of the charter of fundamental rights, which we have received through the treaty of lisbon, is clearly and clearly brought to our attention by this court judgment. we should also be proud of this set of fundamental rights as parliamentarians, as europeans. the right to life, dignity, freedom, privacy, the independent right to the protection of personal data, freedom of religion and expression and many other points are enshrined there. we europeans can be proud of this catalogue of our values. however, a major problem still exists. the problem is that europe too is still under the pressure of terrorism, that the threat of terrorism is not from the world but, unfortunately, from god. there are still many dead, there were many dead in europe. it's bound to destinies, it's bound to families that have been destroyed. the state also has a duty to protect its citizens from this terror. i therefore say again, in the name of the epp group: the threat of terrorism is still there, the threat is still there. the terrorists are using all the technical means available to them, just as they did in the past. we know that the bomb in madrid was detonated by a mobile phone. that's why the state can't be defenseless! the statements of europol or in my home country germany the statements of the federal criminal police office are clear: we also need the link data in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. this is still valuable information. that is why we believe it is necessary to submit a revision. the ecj - as the commissioner put it - explicitly allows us to store citizens' data. it's about the conditions, the framework. we therefore ask the commission to table a new proposal in the next few days, which will take account of the reasoning of the european court of justice. the length of time the connection data is stored, the maximum storage time, can be reduced. we need a common minimum storage period. we need a common definition of the criminal conditions under which access to data is possible - that is, restrictions on serious crime - and we need, of course, judicial safeguards, that is, the rule of law, to allow access to the data accordingly. the commission in office will remain in office until october. the commissioners in office will not be running for re-election, but will continue to serve in brussels. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the national laws remain in force. and if you want us to protect the data of european citizens through european law, if you want us to uphold the protection of fundamental rights, you must also support the idea that europe should provide a legal framework for the storage of data. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. this cannot be in the interests of protecting european fundamental rights. the epp respects fundamental rights. we have great respect for the ecj ruling, but we also believe that we need the directive so that the state is not blind in the fight against terrorism. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. my dear colleague! no one is using terror as an argument to get anything done here. but it is just as negligent when colleagues - as i can hear from your question now - ignore the threat of terrorism and fail to discuss how we actually find and hunt down terrorists to protect our citizens. the epp is interested in both issues: the protection of fundamental rights and the fight against terrorism.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. dear colleague! first, i defended my consent at the time. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. i still think the directive is right. we need a new balance, that's the job. but the concrete question to you is this: if we do not receive a new proposal from the commission - and you have not said whether you want a new proposal or not - we will have national savagery, which means, if i look at the british model, less data protection. the question i would like to put to the liberals is therefore: do you want a new proposal to implement the protection of fundamental rights in accordance with the ecj's guidelines, or do you not want a new proposal? i would have liked to have answered that specific question.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the ecj's decision on data retention is undoubtedly the most significant ruling to strengthen the fundamental rights of eu citizens in recent years. it shows that eu accession to the charter of fundamental rights is working and it is proof that it is worth fighting for the protection of citizens' rights at european level. on behalf of my group, i would like to thank all the network activists from austria and ireland, but also the many supporters from europe who have actually supported this lawsuit. the ruling overshadows any other decision on data retention, including that of the federal constitutional court, and clearly states that the directive is complete and retroactive so you can read it repealed. she doesn't exist anymore. it is invalid and therefore no longer subject to reform. the court of justice has made it clear that no objective, however general, justifies the retention of data. because this is - and i quote again - an infringement of the fundamental rights of almost the entire european population. because there is no direct link between the actual data, mr weber, and a threat to public security. because exceptions to the protection of personal data must be limited to what is strictly necessary. that's what the verdict says. we therefore call for an end to the collective rage and the security mania in the eu and, of course, in the member states. we demand that all regulations and directives which involve such storage be examined. this concerns the data-moloch europol, the schengen information system ii, and of course eurodac, where law enforcement agencies store data even on recognised refugees. this is real racism. the swift and pnr contracts with the various third countries have also been affected, as has been mentioned. let us take this opportunity to make it clear that there will be no eu-pnr agreement, as we have to make clear today. the commission has also proposed that the member states should immediately abolish any rules based on data retention, simply because they are contrary to eu law and there is no longer any basis for them at european level. we call on the commission to take the initiative and to initiate infringement proceedings against member states which fail to do so. one month after we condemned in the strongest terms the mass surveillance of eu citizens in our nsa report, we now have the legal tailwind. the mass surveillance of people in the eu is a thing of the past. we can signal this today by clearly positioning ourselves.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the ecj's ruling is good. it leads on the one hand to clarification of the possibilities, what is and what is not possible in the field of data retention, and it leads to clarification of the limits. i cannot accept that the only conclusion to be drawn from this, including that of this commission, is that we will not receive any more proposals on data retention. i cannot accept it because, firstly, the threat situation has actually become worse than it was before. i cannot accept it because there are still security gaps, which you have rightly mentioned in the swift dossier, and i wonder why this should not apply here and why it should not apply in the eu. but i cannot accept it either, because in addition to the right to liberty, there is also a right to security in article 6 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, as the court of justice has also stated. the fight against serious crime is also a matter of public security. i cannot accept such a decision either, because it is precisely because of this that the prosecution of criminal offences, which is a monopoly of the state, is no longer possible in many thousands of cases. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. i also think it is extremely worrying from the point of view of the rule of law when the state no longer enables the law enforcement authorities to ensure that law enforcement is carried out in accordance with the state of the art. we must also agree as legislators on a high level of protection, that is to say, a level of security which is appropriate in the light of the existing realities. we cannot do that without such a legal act. it is also about the confidence of our citizens in the police, in the law enforcement agencies in the judiciary as a whole, in the rule of law as such. i cannot accept that position either, because it is precisely the legitimate interests of the victims that are not taken into account here, because then we leave them alone. we therefore need the balance shown by the court of justice to meet the legitimate interests of citizens in the protection of their data and the legitimate interests in the investigation of criminal offences. i do not want to explain to the victims or to the survivors why we do not use all the means available to solve crimes. (the speaker agrees to answer two questions under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. my question goes in the same direction. look at paragraph 59 of the judgment: it is clearly denied that with a data storage system and then with this data stored even the slightest terrorism can be prevented on an order of magnitude. i'm not saying that. we'll find out in the verdict. are you seriously suggesting that law enforcement agencies don't do any data collection? there are also event-related data collections.
answer to two questions on the 'blue card' procedure. firstly, all this data about connections and communications is no longer there if we do not have this data. that is why it cannot be used to prove anything in court. that's exactly the point. of course, it can be used for some sort of intelligence or for prior checking. but it's also about understanding the actions and seeing who did what there. so it is not just the prevention of acts, but particularly the prosecution of acts that is relevant here. as for the ecj, it is the task of a court to be guided by the law and fundamental rights, and not to think, like politicians or legislators, about how to do something else. we do not find in the judgment the limit for the question of whether the safety of the individual can in fact be a limit in relation to this data subject.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. on a flash drive like this, millions of european data could be stored: who called whom, when, what text messages were sent. this million-fold indiscriminate collection of data from innocent citizens has now, thank god, come to an end. the data retention put each of us under general suspicion. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. for years, these ordinary, innocent citizens have been snooped on and monitored, which simply cannot be. what is even more shocking is that the ink is not even dry under this ecj ruling, and the conservative colleague, mr weber, is again today calling for a new draft directive from the commission on data retention. it's unbelievable how you trample on civil rights, mr. weber, it can't be! you can't scare us with crime and terror anymore. germany is the best example. the former federal minister of justice of the fdp, sabine leutheusser-schnarrenberger, has prevented the introduction of data retention in germany. and the police have done a wonderful job. on the contrary, it is almost a mockery to suggest that the police need to retain data to protect citizens. no, we do not need data retention - neither at national nor at european level!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european court of justice has ruled against the european directive on data retention. yes, states are supposed to protect their citizens, but freedoms and fundamental rights are absolute! the ecj therefore does not only criticise individual details such as retention periods, but also makes it clear that the objective of the directive does not justify the retention of data on all people. it thus puts our fundamental rights and important principles of the rule of law, such as the presumption of innocence, at the centre of future decisions. the court of justice's ruling seems to leave only one question open: will the commission make a new proposal, or is data retention actually off the table? but the question that really comes to the fore is this: if the european directive is not compatible with european law, with the rights of the charter, does that not also apply in principle to transpositions in the member states? i think that the commission has a duty to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. and this is of course also true of other data collection systems such as passenger data, 'smart borders', swift and others. in the context of the current debate on data protection, on data breaches in business, government and intelligence services, where we can no longer control the use of data, we need to redefine how we can protect fundamental rights and freedoms in the digital age. what we need now is a clear return to our shared values, to our principles of democracy and the rule of law. europe needs a new start here too.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there are two bad phenomena that we are facing. one is the abuse of religion, and the other is the persecution of religion and religious people and the destruction of religious freedom. abuse of religion occurs when religion is used for ideological purposes, when religion is abused for violent and terrorist purposes, and when people are killed and persecuted in the name of religion. unfortunately, it's not just islamism that's at stake. we are dealing with phenomena such as the very recent phenomenon of putin threatening europe, who is now, for example, posing as the protector of christendom. he is a despiser of humanity, a slanderer, a mass murderer, and an aggressor, but he is now considered by some to be the protector of christianity. but we also have other phenomena, and that is the persecution of religion and especially of christians worldwide. we must vigorously defend ourselves against this in our foreign policy, regardless of the religion whose freedom of religion is being violated. i would like to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to its own devices. this europe is diverse. but if you look at strasbourg, with its cathedral in the middle, you can see very clearly that this europe is characterized by christianity and its older sister, judaism. this is the root of europe! a secular state is not a state that cuts off these roots, but a secular state is a state that does not force people to a particular faith. this is a secular state! but we are 80 percent christian in europe! we have these deep cultural christian roots. so, of course, we have a special obligation to advocate for the most persecuted religious community in the world, namely, christianity, without neglecting anyone else. and if we are advocating religious freedom in general, then of course we must also act as a peaceful protective force for christians. for to whom should they refer if not to us? those who are genuinely interested in religious freedom will not object to this course. for if you protect one religion, you protect all, and if you have no respect for your own religion and do not care for your own religious communities, you will not understand the others. yes, he won't even be truly peaceable, because he lacks the violin key of religion, the musicality of religion. we must preserve this in europe, so that we can also act as a protector of religious freedom!
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - mr president, i thank the honourable members for this fruitful exchange of views. we will of course study the content of the resolution carefully. i would like to point out that, in relation to religious freedom, the protection of religious freedom and the avoidance of any violence against religious communities is certainly one of the first priorities in the guidelines to which i referred in my opening remarks. i would also like to remind you that lady aston and the council have repeatedly reacted directly to specific cases of infringement of religious rights or violence against religious communities. i would like to mention iraq, iran, statements on alexandria, pakistan, tunisia and, of course, the drama unfolding in syria, which is indeed putting in a very difficult position historical religious communities which have existed in that country for centuries. as i said, we will study the content of the resolution carefully. i also fully agree with mrs giannakou's observation that the european union does not want to impose its own cultural codes and that it respects cultural diversity. the respect for cultural diversity is also a cornerstone of the european construction, both within and outside europe. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. i would like to thank mrs giannaku in particular for her outstanding contribution to european integration over many years, which is well known. i would not dare to list her offer now because it would take too long. i shall simply limit myself to the very important role it has recently played in the adoption of another important piece of legislation, the adoption of the regulation on the financing of european political parties and european political foundations. thank you very much, mrs. yannaku, for all your offerings over the past many years: i think you have been elected four times as a member of the european parliament and i wish you good luck in your future activities. (applause from the centre and the right)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i should like to say that i would have liked to thank mr almunia for his good cooperation, not only on this dossier. but i'm happy to take a liking to you now, mrs. malmström. i would ask you to tell him that we as a parliament have been very satisfied with the constructive cooperation with him and the commission at all times. give him our best. i would also like to thank mr kourkoulas, who is still here in parliament at the moment, on behalf of the greek presidency of the council, for his commitment to this dossier. in the end, however, it would not have been possible for the european parliament to reach a solution to this important dossier of private enforcement of antitrust cases if it had not been for the cooperation of the colleagues from the various groups - sánchez presedo for the social democrats, eppink for the ecr, olle schmidt for the liberals and his predecessor as shadow rapporteur, bas eickhout, but also bernhard rapkay, who was also absent this evening - all of them together with the chairman of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. we have achieved with the directive, on a proposal from the commission, that in the near future, after the member states have implemented this directive, victims of cartels will be able to enforce their legitimate claims before the courts of the member states because they have suffered damage. this is important progress, and i believe that progress is all the more important because it is in line with the line which the european parliament called for in 2010 in the 40th annual report on competition policy of the european commission, namely that we should incorporate the principle of follow-on actions in this directive in many places, thus eliminating all the risks of american-influenced class action systems for the european union legal area. i must say very clearly that i am grateful not only to the commission but also to my colleagues in parliament for having succeeded in taking this path which ensures that many of the wrong developments we have seen in the united states of america cannot spill over into the european union. there are a whole range of elements involved here. we have clearly rejected this not only in committee but also by agreeing to a first reading here, and we have ensured that the european principle of enforcement of the law after official assertion of a breach of public law is given a majority here. thank you very much. i think that we have also succeeded in improving a number of points compared with the commission's original proposal. i believe that the relationship between article 12 and article 13, that is to say the question of the privilege of a plaintiff, whether he is directly or indirectly affected by a cartel, has been properly limited by the european parliament in reasonable places. the risk of double privilege for both the direct and the indirect claimant may lead - not necessarily, but may lead - to multiple claims being brought and to multiple claims for damages being made. but that would be a great danger for the european economic centre, because already today the united states of america has to record that its companies are putting back more money to avoid lawsuits and less money to invest in research and development. the situation in europe is quite the opposite, and we want to keep this trend in europe. it succeeded because in the end, when we met the council in the trilogue, we were able to find the necessary majority. secondly, it has succeeded in embedding the mechanism of voluntary redress in article 17. this is important so that we can offer plaintiffs a convenient way to recover their damages without having to sue. i'll get to the rest of the points at the end.
member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank everyone for this short, but very clarifying, debate. i will make sure to pass your kind words on to vice-president almunia, who unfortunately cannot be with us tonight. the final text agreed is indeed a very important step forward for all the victims of competition law infringement. large companies, smes and consumers will be able to effectively claim full compensation before national courts throughout the union for the harm they have suffered. in addition, the right of compensation will apply to the victims who have actually suffered the harm, including those who had no direct dealings with an infringer because they were further down the supply chain. this is very often the case for smes and consumers. i want to stress that we are indeed talking about full and fair compensation. we all agree that multiple compensation for the same harm should be avoided, and the directive includes provision to achieve this goal. at the same time, the text regulates interaction between the public and private enforcement of competition law, leading to an optimal overall enforcement of competition rules. the effectiveness of essential tools of public enforcement, such as leniency programmes, is maintained – and even enhanced – while respecting eu rules on transparency, as well as the fundamental rights of the victims. let me once again thank the rapporteurs, especially mr schwab, but also the various co-rapporteurs – mr rapkay and the chair of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, ms bowles – and others for the excellent work.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to go. thank you very much, mr. president wieland, for the pleasure of meeting with us tonight. i am sorry that vice-president almunia cannot be here. that is why i am very pleased that you are here, mr wieland. i would also like to comment on what has been said in this debate. we've heard enough of "thank you", and i'm glad you did. but it's about the cause. i should like to thank mr sánchez presedo, who is absent, once again from this place. he was always an incredibly constructive and friendly colleague. i'm going to miss him in this area. the same applies, of course, to the kind words of mr eickhout, and i also miss the liberals in the debate today. but, commissioner, there is of course one point in this directive which still leaves legal doubts. the decision which was ultimately taken by a majority, namely to ensure that the crown witness remains privileged in terms of liability in the external relationship, is not clearly helpful in my view from the point of view of consumer protection policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i know that the european commission has tried with great effort to bring this article into line. i know that many competition authorities in the member states, which have never had a lead witness, have been given a glowing look in the hope of having lead witnesses. but you shouldn't mix things up. the question is whether there is enough economic activity, not whether there are enough witnesses and their privileges. that is why we will not just be happy with this regulation. but in the next five years - and this has already been said - we will have plenty of time to see how this directive works, and i think we will eventually arrive at a fair solution. i am particularly pleased that we have succeeded in excluding phishing expeditions with this directive and thus have a safe environment for the companies working for us and at the same time create better conditions for the plaintiffs and for the consumers. the european parliament should therefore give its unanimous consent to the vote tomorrow.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, 17 april 2014, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european long-term investment funds (com ((2013) 0462[nbsp ]-[nbsp ]c7-0209/2013[nbsp ]-[nbsp ]2013/0214 (cod)) (a7-0211/2014).
i thank you very much, mr kalfin. the next speakers will be those representing the political groups. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would like to thank mrs lulling.
member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank honourable members for this important debate. i will of course pass all their comments to commissioner barnier. this is a long-awaited proposal because, in practice, european long-term investment funds will give investors – such as pension funds, life insurers and others with long-term horizons – access to assets that reflect the long-term investment needs and that will be invested in three types of assets: infrastructure programmes, projects that require a significant amount of investment for a long period of time, unlisted companies such as start-ups and smes, and real estate, which has historically been a very important asset class for investment funds. this is something that is vital to reinforce the financial health of the economic sectors and which ultimately will bring growth and jobs. that is why this tool is so important and i hope that we can make it available to our companies as soon as possible. as has been said here tonight, this is a first step, but it is a very important step. i hope that by your vote tomorrow we will send a very important signal that we are working with this and that we hope that we can reach an agreement at the beginning of next autumn.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, 17 april 2014, at 12 noon.
member of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, it is an honour to be here with you on this last day of the current sitting of parliament. when i came to this parliament for my hearing, i singled out implementation as one of my three priorities. we are here today to debate and adopt, as the last piece of environmental legislation of this parliamentary term, important amendments to the european union regulation on shipments of waste. they aim to strengthen the enforcement and inspections of the waste shipments regulation to help prevent illegal shipments of waste. as i am frequently reminded by members of this house, this is a very serious and frequent problem today. considerable amounts of the waste we produce leave the european union illegally, mainly to destinations in africa and asia, where it has a severe impact on the environment and human health. illegal waste exports also mean high costs for european union member states and they are a lost opportunity for the european union economy, as already mentioned by the rapporteur. by reducing illegal shipments of waste, member states will also be able to cut the substantial costs of having to repatriate illegally exported waste and paying for clean-up operations. if waste is routed through legal channels for recovery, we ensure that those valuable raw materials are channelled back into our economy, creating jobs in the recovery and recycling sectors, and reducing our dependence on primary resource imports. the problem that we have faced until today is that the european union waste shipments regulation lacks bite. it did not contain common criteria which were specific enough for the inspection of waste shipments. the commission is therefore very pleased to have reached an agreement with parliament and the council on waste to address these shortcomings.first, under the planned new legislation, all member states must establish inspection plans to target the most problematic and high-risk waste streams. these plans must include the elements needed to establish sufficient inspection capacity and effectively prevent illegal shipments. a key part of the planning process is to carry out risk assessments, covering specific waste streams and sources of illegal shipments. second, new provisions will enhance the powers of national inspectors by enabling them to request the necessary documents and evidence from exporters. third, the new legislation will facilitate the prevention and detection of illegal shipments through improved cooperation and exchange of information between the member states. effective implementation of these new provisions by relevant authorities and inspectors on the ground is of course of the utmost importance. to signal that the commission is committed to assisting them in this crucial task by providing guidance on relevant aspects, i would therefore like to make the following declaration. the commission intends to make use of its prerogative to adopt guidance, including on risk assessment for inspection plans and, as necessary, electronic data interchange. i should also add that one of the changes introduced to the commission’s proposal in the first reading deliberations requires us to make a declaration on the use of the non-opinion clause for the adoption of implementing acts. this has also been communicated to the secretariat. finally, let me express my gratitude to the rapporteur, bart staes, for his dedicated and thorough work on the commission’s proposal, as well as to the shadow rapporteurs in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. well done on the good work from parliament.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. yes, i would love to join in the thanks to bart staes. you did good! we could have avoided all this if our member states had applied the old waste shipment regulation conscientiously. admittedly, the old regulation was toothless. but we know why it was toothless: because the member states did not want to give power to europe at that time, and the mess we have now, unfortunately, we find, including in my own country, that 25% of exports are illegal. the member states have therefore - and this must be said quite clearly - failed once again. we would not have had to do anything if they had properly implemented the old regulation. the fact that this is now becoming more stringent, that more controls are now being introduced, is the fault of the ladies and gentlemen in the member states themselves. the industry should have insisted that these illegal exports not be approved and not accepted, then it would have been easier. what's the consequence? the result is a distortion of competition for the industrial giants, the result is that we have a huge waste-hopping, that is, the waste stays in one place and then is traded from one port to another, as in the stock exchange. then the trail to the chase is lost. then control is zero. well, we made a big mistake. we have a 25 percent yield in the developing world, and the recycling yield in europe is 95 percent. that must give you a headache. we had clear rules, everyone knew what was allowed and what was forbidden. now we're getting to the point where we're getting very strict inspection schedules. there's gonna be some screaming. but if they don't want it any other way, then that's the way we have to do it. the commission, my dear friend janez potočnik, could of course have done a little more checking. but i know that the manpower is also scarce in the directorate-general for the environment. everyone needs to be aware that we may have to start at a different end here. the result of this report is good. we will reverse the burden of proof, which means that the person who exports must prove that he is allowed to export. until now, the poor customs officer at the port had to decide that - there was too little staff. i think the burden of proof is reversed is an important and good thing. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative. but the facts being what they are, he's very good, and i thank you for that, and i thank janez potočnik, too, for his team's contribution to such a good result.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not currently, up to 50% of waste shipments are illegal. the new regulation focuses on the inspection plans to be drawn up by the member states. this should include, inter alia, controls and on-the-spot checks. these inspection plans shall be made public. i think that makes a lot of sense. my group will vote in favour of this new regulation. we have doubts, however, about how the checks should be carried out in practice, because they are labour-intensive and costly. without additional funding, porthopping, i.e. shipping from ports with less or no controls, could continue. in addition, we call on member states to pursue illegal shipments of waste, including plant closures.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not it's actually a crazy story. sometimes european laws are made, all the member states sign them, and i have the impression that some of them go home and think that i do not really want to implement them. the european union is a little sick of this, too, in this case, with this subject. the fact is that right now the good guys are suffering because there are black sheep who still have letter box companies that still don't play by the rules and endanger the whole sector. as liberals, we are in principle in favour of cabotage and flexibility in the market. but it has to be on equal terms. we can't have the legal competing with the illegal. in fact, we want to make sure that the drivers have reasonable conditions. this is important because we will need the truck drivers in the future. a lot of transport is done on the road - now and in the future. we want to make sure that the drivers have reasonable conditions. we've just made sure they have bigger cabins, and, of course, they're going to be treated fairly. this must be controlled, and as long as the controls vary so much in the member states, it is impossible to continue to support cabotage because we do not know what we might cause. the fact that drivers are treated well is not just important to them, it's important to the whole sector. it's also because we don't have enough drivers. how are we to get someone to do this job when the conditions are so bad and so unfair? we must therefore have more controls there, and as mathieu grosch has already said, this is a task for the future. we will certainly, if we are back in the game, make sure that everyone in the next parliament is aware of this and will support the commission in improving the controls.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, in 2008 when the return directive was adopted in this house it was harshly criticised by us greens, by many nongovernmental organisations and even by heads of government. latin american leaders called it a directive of shame. the directive allows for excessive detention of irregular migrants. they can be put into jail for up to 1.5 years, not for a crime but for the simple offence of staying in the european union without permission. now we are informed that even these excessive rules are not being implemented properly by the member states. obviously greece is using an illegal trick for detaining migrants even longer than the maximum of 1.5 years and this could affect several thousand people. i would like to know from the commission what it is going to do against this breach of european law, and whether it will take effective measures to end this. from the recently published evaluation of the return directive by the commission, which, by the way, is not very informative, we also learned that other member states are not even sticking to the low standards of the return directive. several do not have criteria for the risk of absconding, which is the major reason why people are being detained. one member states prolongs detention unlawfully. a fourth of all member states have no mechanism for monitoring return procedures, and only one half of all member states have special detention centres. if i understand the evaluation report correctly, then the commission has not started even one case of an infringement procedure. can the commission please explain that: what steps are you going to take against member states that are obviously in breach of european law? the evaluation also omits very important questions. i would like to know, in particular, how long migrants are being de facto detained, and why did the commission not provide any information on this? lastly and finally, parliament has always said that no[nbsp ]one is illegal and we should also respect that in the titles of our debate.
member of the commission. - mr president, first, i would like to clearly say that i wish to express the commission’s commitment to do everything in its power to bring all member states into line with the requirements of the directive. i was also clear that our eyes are focused in the greek case on the problem, where we also share your view that the problem potentially really exists there. what we are doing? we are constantly monitoring in all cases what is happening in all member states, that support is clearly done through the european return fund. we are regularly visiting the places and trying to make improvements. concerning the things you mentioned about infringements, it is true that there are no infringements yet, but we are monitoring member states and dialogue with them has already resulted in quite a few cases in positive changes. we have launched a few pilot cases, which means that this is a kind of pre-infringement monitoring which the commission is doing, and of course, if necessary, we will not shy away from opening the infringements. i have also heard from your side quite clearly that you are not entirely satisfied with the situation on the ground and also with how the commission is dealing with handling the problems, and that some of the replies in my original initial statement were weak. i of course took that point. i can promise you that i will forward your worries and criticism to my colleague, and try to make sure that we address it properly. finally, i would like to say that concerning the case of the united kingdom, it has the possibility to opt out on the treaty basis in this area and has decided to do so. that is simply a fact of life. since this is also my last speech in this european parliament, i would like to thank you all for your work and for your cooperation and of course i wish good luck to all those who wish to return to this parliament. all the best.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, on behalf of the commission, i wish to recall the reasons for strengthening our trade relations with vietnam, a country of 90[nbsp ]million people and the third largest country of asean. sixty per cent of its dynamic population are under 50 years old and vietnam is a development success story. political and economic reforms launched in 1986 have transformed vietnam from one of the poorest countries in the world to a lower-middle income country within a quarter of a century. vietnam’s openness has led to growth at an average rate of just below 6% between 2008 and 2012. last year, for the first time, vietnam surpassed indonesia in terms of total trade value exchanges with the eu and has thus become the eu’s fourth most important trading partner in the asean nations behind singapore, malaysia and thailand. for the eu, by 2015, 90% of future economic growth will be generated outside europe – a very large part of it in the asia-pacific region. asia contains some of the fastest growing economies in the world. so for us, the eu, it is only logical that we increase our engagement with asian economies such as vietnam. it is part of our own drive to use international trade and investment to boost growth at home. it is part of our recovery strategy. they are a stepping stone for our ultimate goal of achieving an agreement with the whole region. beyond tariffs, the agreement with vietnam will cover services and investment disciplines on state-owned enterprises, public procurement, sustainable development and the regulatory framework. as in previous negotiations, which have already been finalised, there will be a clear link between the trade provisions and the political provisions of the association agreement. the agreement will allow vietnam to build on the reforms it made when it joined the wto on issues such as transparency and public consultation, all of which will make the system more effective and in tune with real economic needs. vietnam is also moving ahead with a wide range of new agreements, through broader asean negotiations and through their trans-pacific partnerships. commissioner de gucht went to hanoi on 17 march, where he met with the trade minister of vietnam. they took stock of negotiations and agreed on a way forward. the commission hopes to swiftly advance and conclude these negotiations, ideally before the end of this tenure – by the end of october this year – so that business in europe and vietnam can reap the benefits as soon as possible and stimulate growth in both economies. i want to thank the european parliament for this resolution, which is sending a clear and consistent message to our counterparts regarding these negotiations.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the importance of participation in international trade in creating growth and jobs is particularly evident in the asean region. the countries have opened up to international trade in recent decades. they are participating in globalisation, and this is one of the reasons why economic development in this region is so strong. these negotiations have been going on for several years now. the european parliament's opinion was already very much incorporated into the negotiating mandate at that time. we want to make clear again today in our resolution that we have priorities on the road to the conclusion of the negotiations, which we would like the european commission to take into account. we also want to make it clear to the public once again with today's debate that these negotiations - as indeed all the foreign trade negotiations of recent years - will be conducted in the most transparent way for the public. the content of my report is that we should ensure that we meet vietnam in the short and medium term in the one respect that it is still a very rapidly developing country at the moment. but on the other hand, we should really make sure that all these exceptions, that in doubt transitional periods, eventually expire. i think it is an important concern for all of us in this parliament that any asymmetries which may be established in such an agreement will eventually come to an end and that we will not have asymmetrical rules in this agreement for a period of time - doubtless for decades. secondly, vietnam is still a country where the rule of law is far from being as developed as it is in the european union. i believe that our agreement with vietnam is a very good example of agreements in which we also need investment protection. we must ensure that investors from the european union in vietnam are also protected from the fact that the legal system is not as developed as we know it from europe, from our liberal democracies. and we also need to give investors an incentive to go to this country because they know that if in doubt the government makes arbitrary decisions and the courts, unfortunately, cannot make independent decisions because of perhaps political influence, then they have a protective shield under the investment protection agreement that goes with it. i would be very, very grateful if all members could behave accordingly in the vote today. i would like to thank the commission very much for bringing the negotiations to this stage. we have set ourselves the ambitious goal of completing these negotiations this year. i would be grateful if the european commission would really stick to the matter in the coming weeks and months. i am very grateful to the asean delegation, chaired by mr werner langen, for its close support for these negotiations. i would therefore be happy if we could conclude this agreement at the beginning of the next parliamentary term, if possible.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are also firmly convinced that trade promotes sustainable development and, in this respect, we support the negotiations with vietnam, a country which can certainly generate wealth for its people through trade. and in that respect, yes, we also find the seven rounds of negotiations very promising. but we also have to say that prosperity and sustainability can only be secured if we guarantee fair conditions, and there are three areas that are particularly close to my heart. the first is the question of animal welfare and respect for international animal welfare standards, such as cites, that there is no illegal trade in rare species. the second is the involvement of civil society in the process, and the third is, of course, how we ensure that fundamental labour rights, fundamental environmental standards and social standards are safeguarded, particularly in the conduct of business in vietnam. the commission has therefore decided to make the sustainability of the programme more binding.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to say to mr almunia that vietnam is an economic success story and that mr martin's proposal to conclude an agreement with all 10 asean countries is unrealistic, because the economic and political differences are too great to hope for a common agreement at the moment. i think the right way forward is to conclude free trade agreements with five countries and to conclude partnership and cooperation agreements with seven of the ten countries. the questions are all contained in mr zahradil's report and there is nothing to add. i believe that economic freedom and good economic relations must go hand in hand with political freedom, with freedom of speech and freedom of religion. the partners in vietnam know that. i had a very intensive discussion with all the negotiating partners on this issue during our last visit in autumn 2013. i was surprised at the despondency with which the communist unity party has so far rejected reforms. it has a broad base in this country, which has a special history, and i was surprised that the last party congress did not allow this opening. vietnam has 35 million internet users, and yet if bloggers speak out against the regime, they are immediately arrested or disconnected from the internet. this cannot be reconciled in the long term. i think it is therefore right that parliament should urge the commission to negotiate comprehensively. i would welcome it if it were to be completed this year - definitely. but the next stage, as we see in many free trade agreements, also needs to be accelerated. this is the ratification by the 28 member states. it is no use in us working quickly here and the member states delaying ratification. i am glad that the negotiations are taking place and i wish the commission every success.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what is it? i am very sorry that this translation error has already led to a change from tuesday to today. english was really the original language in which we negotiated. i would like to say a few words about this because many people may not know what we are voting on. it is a framework directive on maritime spatial planning. we have seven times as much coastline in europe and twice as much water as land. there is a lot of potential for development with offshore energy and blue biotechnology. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a proper manner. i don't think most people know that, so i wanted to say it again.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we now have a really important resolution to vote on. in our last meeting before the elections, we will decide on a resolution on ukraine. we have been negotiating with almost all the groups in this house for a very long time in the last few days to develop a common text. i was very shocked by this when i saw the pattern of amendments, because it changes the substance of this resolution. i would now very much ask that we vote on this resolution together, and i suggest that we do so at the end by roll call, because i think that is more in keeping with the seriousness of the negotiations conducted by mr rouček, mr brok, mr saryusz-wolski, myself and mr van baalen. i call for a final vote by name.
i have to say, madam president, on behalf of my group i would like to propose an amendment in the light of the new developments concerning the decisions in transnistria. article 33 now reads as follows:expresses particular concern over renewed instability in the separatist region of transnistria in moldova; believes that the recent request of 16 april 2014 by the self-proclaimed authorities in tiraspol for transnistria to be recognised by russia as an independent state represents a dangerous and irresponsible step; recalls that the so-called referendum in the autonomous territorial unit of gagauzia was against the constitution of moldova and therefore illegal; reiterates its full support for moldova's territorial integrity and calls on all parties to urgently resume dialogue, under the 5+2 framework, and calls for an enhancement of the eu's status to that of negotiating partner, leading towards a peaceful and sustainable settlement of the issue; (applause) i would like to thank
i have to say, madam president, i would like to comment on the motion because we are constantly accused of not doing anything in the european union in the area of asylum policy. two things are remarkable here. firstly, we have opened an office of the european union for asylum in malta. so we want to help those member states which are not able to cope with the flood of asylum seekers. secondly - and this is also remarkable - we have today decided and confirmed that norway will also participate in this european union asylum office. i think that is a very important signal, because it is quite simply necessary to manage and control the flows of asylum seekers, and this must also be regulated in a democratically legitimate way.
i have to say, madam president, a historical pattern is repeating itself in ukraine. mr putin, a megalomaniac aggressor, is exploiting a nationality problem which he himself has created in order to be able to act as a force for order. i am glad that we, as the european parliament, have rejected this with great unanimity. i remember from history class and also from my childhood when a megalomaniac dictator named ulbricht said we had no intention of invading czechoslovakia. he once said that no one has the intention of building a wall. and every day after that, he said the opposite. this is the pattern of putin's propaganda, and we must oppose this propaganda with a clear language from the european parliament. this can only be the language of human rights and international law.
i have to say, madam president, i too am in favour of economic relations with vietnam, an important partner in southeast asia, and also of close political relations. but we must not forget that there are still massive human rights violations in this country. that there, in particular, the freedom of religion, which we discussed so intensely last night, is being violated as much as in only a few other countries. that christians, buddhists and other religious communities are persecuted there. that christians are being brutally persecuted for their religious beliefs. that bishops and priests lose their lives or go to prison. so, of course, we as the european parliament must maintain cooperation. but we must do everything we can to ensure that human rights and religious freedom in this important partner country are not trampled on any longer, otherwise it simply cannot be and remain a partner country.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on pakistan: new cases of persecution.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not pakistan has a difficult history. his name is just a string of letters that is artificial. so artificial is the whole state, born of the division of british india into a muslim part with a large hindu minority and a hindu part with a large muslim minority. whole populations were relocated and reassembled. and that has had a massive impact to this day. however, we cannot accept that violence is being perpetrated here, not only between hindus and muslims, not only between the different sects of islam, but especially against christians there. i am not going to go into detail. i want to make it very clear that we are, of course, committed to religious freedom for all. but who, if not we europeans, is to be the natural protector of christians? this is our central task, and we must also fulfil this central task towards our important partner pakistan.
question no 2 by mr morten messerschmidt: the 'blue card' procedure the commission is not i would just like to ask mr messerschmidt why he is using this important subject to attack the european union. the commission elected by the european parliament does at least as good a job as the national governments elected by the national parliaments, it only has more weight because it represents the whole of the eu and not just one individual state.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we strongly condemn the recent events and court rulings in pakistan concerning blasphemy. the protection of minorities, especially religious minorities, is one of the main guidelines of our eu foreign policy. increasingly, christians worldwide are the target of discrimination, hostility, and threats. the eu must act decisively here! we reject any form of extremism. the european union is also calling for the establishment of a special committee to deal with the situation in the middle east. pakistan has a very great responsibility, particularly in relation to the situation in afghanistan. only by combatting radicalism together and strengthening civil liberties and pluralism will pakistan be able to stabilise. a reconciled pakistan will benefit the entire region in the long run. the reconciled greater central asia could be a shining example and must become our political objective. that was my last speech after 15 years in the european parliament. i thank all my colleagues for the good cooperation. stay strong in the cause of human rights! (applause from the centre)
i thank you very much, mrs jeggle. good luck to you too, on behalf of the house.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, the vulnerable situation of all minorities in pakistan is at the forefront of the human rights concerns raised by the eu with the government of pakistan. we have repeatedly expressed our concern at the climate of intolerance and violence, the attacks on christians and other minorities including shias, ahmadis, hindus and hazaras and the potential for abuse of the blasphemy laws, to which many of you make reference. the issue is raised in the eu’s human rights dialogue with pakistan and, most recently, during high representative catherine ashton’s dialogue with pakistan’s foreign affairs advisor sartaj aziz in march. the visit to pakistan in the coming months by mr lambrinidis, the eu special representative on human rights, will again be an opportunity to reinforce this. a major contributory factor to the problem of persecution in pakistan has been the alarming rise in violent extremism in parts of the country. the focus for terrorist attacks has been religious minorities, as many of you have said, but also female workers, as ms gurmai said; people promoting education and health and schools, especially girls’ schools. it remains the case that the fundamental causes that make violent abuse and intolerance possible must be tackled. the lack of adequate state education and serious economic problems mean that unemployed young people are open to manipulation by unscrupulous politicians or religious leaders. short of resolving these issues, efforts by the authorities to combat intolerance and violence will continue to be challenged by radical groups, which target religious minorities as part of their agenda. it is in the interest of europe, as well as the stability of the wider region, to do as much as possible to support the vast majority of pakistanis who reject sectarianism and extremist violence and want to see more progress, prosperity and democracy in their country. it is our view that it is essential to engage with pakistan, both through dialogue and through practical engagement. we are preparing to support a major project addressing discrimination on the basis of faith in pakistan. it will focus on improving attitudes through the media, education, culture and public offices. it will also seek ways to tackle discrimination and attacks on the basis of faith, including by legislative review, legal aid and specific mechanisms to deal with attacks. moreover, the eu is supporting projects to improve access to justice for vulnerable groups in pakistan; to improve law enforcement and build capacity in federal and provincial institutions to increase awareness of human rights. support for education continues to be a focus of eu assistance to pakistan, including an understanding and tolerance of other religions. we believe that human rights monitoring resulting from the inclusion of pakistan in the generalised system of preferences, which is contingent on the effective implementation of core international conventions, provides good leverage to ensure steady progress in the protection of respect for human rights. we will continue to raise the issue of freedom of religion and belief, the importance of freedom of expression and the responsibility of pakistan to protect all its citizens, including christian and other minorities, and the rights of women and children. to do so, we need to be united, mr messerschmidt – the commission, council and parliament – and all european citizens that believe in human rights and democracy.
mr sonik, i have to ask you a question. i said at the beginning that i can't make this happen for everyone. we have two more catching-the-eye procedures. i also did not take into account another colleague. i'm sorry about that. we can't keep going on this last day forever. i also take account of the time at which members arrive for the debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the two following debates.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on syria: the situation of certain vulnerable groups.
a writer. - mr president, i have to go. today we remember the christian martyr for peace and human rights, father van der lugt, but also the countless victims of all religions and denominations who have been killed in this murderous struggle in syria. we must see that there are two huge millstones: on the one hand the anti-humanist assad regime, on the other the opposition elements who in reality want to build a fanatical pseudo-god state. the various minorities of the multi-ethnic state of syria, not least the various christian minorities, are in danger of being caught between these millstones. we must, as europeans, make a concerted effort to moderate the dialogue, to distinguish between those parts of the opposition which are really concerned about freedom and those which want to abuse freedom in order to establish a new tyranny. but we also need to talk to those in the regime who may be able and willing to make a peaceful transition. i would like to take this opportunity to thank mrs de keyser for the good cooperation on human rights and syria which is also reflected in this resolution.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i think it is important and right that we look at the situation in syria today in a differentiated way. i think that the contributions of the previous speakers have shown that there is quite a lot of overlap and commonality. the situation is, as has been said, dramatic in many places. but - and i would like to point out at this point - there is also one or other point where there is some hope. the kurdish areas in northern syria have so far managed to bring the violence to a halt and to establish a framework, a basic democratic structure. over 1 million syrians have therefore fled to these kurdish settlements. but this region is isolated from its neighbors and cut off from humanitarian aid. we cannot accept that, and since these areas border turkey, we must make it our duty, especially for turkey, as a candidate for eu accession, to open its borders at this point and to allow and facilitate the delivery of aid. i would like to ask the turkish government to do the same.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, the commission welcomes the urgent resolution on the situation in syria, especially to support the most vulnerable communities in this country. the situation in syria continues to be extremely difficult and a violent civil war is going on with no end in sight. the international community has spelt out very clearly the conditions for the resumption of the geneva ii talks, but the regime prefers to focus on preparing the re-election of president assad. the council stated very strongly last monday that such elections would be a parody of democracy and would have no credibility whatsoever. at the same time, what was a local uprising against the violent excesses of the assad regime has attracted radical forces which resort to terrorist tactics against the most vulnerable, as was the case in the recent attack on the syrian town of kessab. vice-president/high representative ashton has, on many occasions, called on these fighters to leave syria and on their external supporters to withdraw this support. equally, the regime relies on outside support, which further aggravates the situation and impedes the path to a political and syrian-led solution. we continue to work with all the stakeholders to maintain a political process but the plight of syrians continues to worsen. the european union is involved on all fronts to assist the syrian population. the eu has shown real leadership among the international community, from the ongoing humanitarian support, pressing for humanitarian access, and now with un security council resolution 2139, to actions supporting refugees, including palestinians and their host communities in the neighbouring countries, together with providing basic services to syrians organising their lives in all areas. we will continue to focus our activities to better assist the most vulnerable, which means refugee communities, the internally displaced, people in besieged areas, children, women and minorities, including christians who, as the foreign affairs council reiterated on monday, are increasingly targeted. vice-president/high representative ashton, in a statement, expressed shock at the assassination of father frans van der lugt. many of you made reference to this terrible fact. father van der lugt was a courageous man, helping many syrians trapped inside their homes. many others like him continue to be kidnapped and mistreated for their courageous work in their communities, especially by extremist and al-qa’ida linked groups. thus the eu will continue to call for accountability that will ensure that the perpetrators of war crimes, crimes against humanity and violations of international human rights and humanitarian law, especially in regard to those most vulnerable, will not go unpunished.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the next debate.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the situation in north korea.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i've been to north korea many times over the past 20 years, and it was one of the most formative experiences of my life, to have witnessed such a dictatorship from the inside. it was with the success of our parliament that the united nations set up a committee of inquiry into north korea, which has now come before the world public with a very clear result. the result is not only systematic, massive violations of human rights, but, to be more precise, extermination, murder, enslavement, torture, imprisonment, rape, forced abortion, other forms of sexual violence, persecution for political, religious, ethnic, gender reasons, forced displacement of populations, abduction of persons of other nationalities, inhuman punishments, camps that resemble the most cruel camps of the last century. i think we must not only call very clearly on the government and the leadership in north korea to stop all these human rights violations immediately and to respect human rights, but also call on russia and especially china to reconsider their policy towards north korea. we must call on the commission and the eda to stop taking this issue off the agenda and simply do everything we can to continue to denounce this in the world public and to make a difference. i would like to conclude, because this is my last speech, by saying this: man is not for the state, but the state is for man. the dignity of every individual is the starting point of all law and all state power. i want a world where we can shape our rights and relationships in freedom, equality and fraternity - in europe, in north korea and everywhere. i'm glad i could help, i'm glad i helped. i wish all those colleagues who will take up this responsible work here in the future to continue to contribute to making this possible everywhere in the world.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, the situation of human rights in north korea is indeed a matter of grave concern for the eu. the un commission of inquiry on the human rights situation in north korea was established in march 2013 following a resolution initiated by the eu and japan. since 2003 the european union and japan have taken the lead in drawing the attention of the united nations system to human rights abuses in north korea. the recent report by the un commission of inquiry was a powerful reminder of the abuses that are being perpetrated there, and beyond its borders, by the authorities of this country, including ones that may qualify as crimes against humanity. our policy towards north korea is one of critical engagement. the eu’s position on the absolute need and obligation for a country to change course in terms of human rights is crystal clear. we have consistently and constantly raised this issue, both with the authorities of north korea and in the international arena. especially in the united nations, the eu has taken a leading role in drawing attention to this appalling state of affairs and we will continue to do so. we will work with all our partners to ensure an appropriate follow-up to the findings of the commission of inquiry. at the same time, the european union has continued to finance limited humanitarian projects in north korea that ease the sufferings of the most vulnerable and show the north korean authorities that the eu is not just a critical voice but an actor ready to help improve the situation directly on the ground. the improvement of human rights in north korea is our ultimate goal.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item is the vote.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
since this is the last sitting of the parliamentary term, i propose that the minutes of this sitting be approved now, by way of derogation from rule 179 of the rules of procedure. (no objections were raised.) the minutes of today's sitting are approved.
mr president, i should like to take this opportunity of speaking on the agenda to thank you and the staff from the bottom of my heart for the excellent way in which you always conduct these thursday sessions and to say a warm 'goodbye' to the president of the european parliament, our astrid lulling, who is here today. (applause from the centre)
i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer. as far as the staff are concerned, i would like very, very much to join in this thanks and pass it on.
i would like to add, for the record already approved, a standing ovation for mrs lulling. i wish you all a safe journey home. i wish you a campaign, certainly with conflict, without personal injury. we are democrats. we're arguing about the cause, not the other person.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 4.25 p.m.)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we are a unique institution. the 751 members of parliament who are gathered here - we, ladies and gentlemen - represent the peoples of 28 sovereign states. we are a legislative chamber that passes laws for 507 million people in 28 different states. this is the only time in the world. this parliament is unique! it is unique in its existence and it is unique in its function. the fact that 750 men and women, who, if i am correctly informed, represent about 300 parties representing the nations and 28 sovereign states here, the fact that we can sit down and debate about who among us should be put at the head of this chamber, this fact alone, ladies and gentlemen, is not taken for granted. it is one of the greatest historical achievements this continent has ever made. we should be proud of that and make it the basis of our work! (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there can be great variation in how this is done. and the different currents are represented here in this house. we are obliged, as members of this house, to work together across the boundaries of the political groups. none of us alone has a majority. it is regrettable, but that is the will of the electorate. that is why transnational cooperation, which is the basis of the european union, is also here a cooperation across the boundaries of political currents. that is why the debate which the candidates are having here is a debate that goes beyond the currents. we're free in the voting booth. there is no factional constraint here. here, everyone can decide how he or she wants to decide. the darkness of the voting booth is the guarantee of democracy. that's why i'm asking you all to trust me. i have been able to preside over this house for the last two and a half years. this has been the greatest honor of my life, and i want to tell you straight up: what we have achieved in this last election period is that there is no longer a hierarchy in the institutions. when i was elected to this office, they were still around. there were the council members who said: 'well, the european parliament' and there were the commissioners who said: 'there is only one institution, and that is us'. today we are in a situation where no one in the european union, no one at national and no one at european level could pass this parliament, this unique institution. today we are the source of democratic legitimacy in europe. (applause from the centre) this great democratic advance, that executive power must come from democratic parliamentary will, we have achieved. this is one of the greatest political turning points in the history of the european union. i'm proud to have been a part of it. i'm going to reapply. many of the colleagues who are seeing me here for the first time as a newly elected colleague do not know what the colleagues of the last election period have experienced with me. i'd say a lot of good ones, but i'm sure people make mistakes. i'm the last person on earth who thinks i'm flawless. quite the opposite. i'm a human being with strengths and weaknesses. i ask all those who are new here for a vote of confidence, and those who voted for me last time, i ask for a new vote of confidence that i may continue to represent this parliament with dignity for the next two and a half years and continue to represent it as a democratic venue for the debate on the future of europe. thank you very much. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my name is beatrix von storch, alternative for germany. i have a point of order. i refer to rules 15 and 182 of the rules of procedure and ask for a roll-call vote. we want to show the people who put mr schulz in office. i would like to remind you of the three points that have just been raised. the committee on budgetary control has accused him of misuse of office and all the political groups have refused to give him a discharge. he has made his own decisions on passages from the critical report. let's show the people who put mr. schulz in office. i call for a rollcall vote. (applause from the centre)
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. thank you for your confidence. i hope to win the confidence of those who did not choose me today. i thank you, mr iglesias turrión, i thank you, mrs lunacek, and i thank you, mr karim, for this competition. i thank those who voted for me. i want to tell you that as the first president to be re-elected, i am aware of this extraordinary honor. i am aware that this first event in this house gives me a special responsibility, and i want to face up to that responsibility, and i take it very seriously. our parliament, ladies and gentlemen, is the heart of democracy in the european union. the role of our colleagues at national level is our role at eu level, namely to appoint the executive after an election, to entrust it with its work through legislation and to monitor the implementation of that work. what was considered normal and self-evident at the national level was absent at the european level. an overwhelming majority of this house criticised this before the european elections and drew the consequence that only someone who had previously presented himself as a candidate to the citizens and had applied for a mandate should be elected to the next commission. in my language, such a person is called a top candidate. this word has, surprisingly, found its way into many other european languages, it has become a european word. one of these top candidates has been nominated by the european council last weekend as the designated president of the commission as a result of this process and is due to stand for a vote of confidence here on 15 july. i believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a great step forward in strengthening parliament and parliamentarism in the eu. it is an achievement of which we as members of the house can be proud! (applause from the centre) i believe that this is a process that will bring about a profound change in europe. but, ladies and gentlemen, we still face great challenges. the dramatic unemployment of young people, especially young men and women under 25, is creating a sense of hopelessness and despair that threatens our democracy. the inequalities between countries, between groups in the population, in society, and above all the still existing inequalities between women and men, must not leave us in peace. the completion of the reforms in the banking and tax systems will require our strong commitment to further legislation. the negotiations with the united states of america on a free trade agreement will certainly be extensive and difficult. and we agree, i think, across all party lines, that we need a charter of digital fundamental rights for the 21st century. we need a humane policy on migration and asylum that helps to prevent the tragedies we have seen in the mediterranean from happening again. (applause from the centre) we need justice for people and for businesses in the single market. we need an energy policy that makes us independent, but also keeps energy affordable and secures our energy supply. and let me make this very clear, also in terms of the really short-term needs: the fight to protect our natural resources and to combat the threat of climate change will remain our constant task during this election period, including as legislators. there is a long list of tasks, ladies and gentlemen, which we must tackle together, and the 396 newly elected members - among them many young men and women who are here for the first time - will certainly bring fresh air to our chamber of deputies. i would like to say to you, the newly elected members, whom i would like to welcome in a special way, do not worry, you will find a lot of work in the european parliament. we have great challenges ahead of us! a parliament with 751 members from 28 sovereign states, representing the regions from the azores to the belarusian border, from northern lapland to malta, is already a place where the continental problems we have become visible in everyday life. an institution where the very different concerns and threats are felt. and that is why we need a serious debate in this house about the international role of the eu and our role as a parliament in this debate and about the international strategies that the european union has. a guiding discussion. we have been very much concerned with ourselves in the european union in recent years, because of the severe crises. these crises are going on. but dramatic things are happening all around us! like the civil war in syria and the refugee flows it's causing. it challenges us, every day. the disintegration of iraq, the radicalization of the regions bordering the european union, the disintegration of entire states. we must not underestimate that. and so we need not only a debate on refugee flows and how to deal with the refugee question, but above all - and i say this with regard to the revision of the financial perspective - more money for development policy, and we need a consistent debate on arms trade. we will only solve the problems if we solve the problems in the regions where the problems arise. this house, ladies and gentlemen, has dealt with ukraine in the last election cycle in i don't know how many debates. what is happening there every day, and what has happened in the last few months, has led to the fact that 100 years after the start of the first world war and 75 years after the start of the second world war, people in europe - you all felt this in the election campaign - are actually afraid of war. i think that in europe it is not right that people have a real fear of war. if we are serious about the eu as a force for peace, then the economic power we have must be used politically in such a way that those who want to trade with us accept the rule of law and do not practice the law of the stronger. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. it's also how we win back people's trust. when people feel that the european union is there for them, protecting them and empowering them. the basis of the rule of law, ladies and gentlemen, is respect for human dignity. the european union is committed to the principle of equal treatment for men and women, and to the principle of equal treatment for women and men. i am firmly convinced that democracy can only be built on this principle, the principle of respect for human dignity. the guarantee of mutual respect and human dignity must therefore be the guiding principle of our action. and we must make it the basis of our work here, in this house and through this parliament in the internal processes of the eu and through the eu in international politics. i know that the overwhelming majority of the members of this house support this position. i would also like to say, on taking office as president of the european parliament, that i will oppose vigorously anyone who calls into question the rules of mutual respect and human dignity. (applause from the centre) ladies and gentlemen, we have a lot of work to do. let us work in a collegial spirit, in controversial but constructive discussions, let us get to work! and let me thank you again very personally for this extraordinary confidence. i hope i can prove worthy of your trust. (parliament adopted the resolution)
ladies and gentlemen, the delays we've incurred this morning have led to some changes in the deadlines that i have to tell you about. i would like to set the deadline for the nominations of the vice-presidents of our house at 1.30 p.m. that would mean that we would have to reopen the plenary session for the election of vice-presidents at 3 p.m. that concludes this item. (the sitting was suspended at 12.20 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
the next item on the agenda is the election of the vice-presidents of the european parliament. i have received the following nominations: the candidates have informed me that they have been proposed with their consent. i am therefore pleased to inform you that the candidates have been nominated with their consent. (as two colleagues are absent from the first round of voting, the president will first draw lots to select two new counters: olle ludvigsson and peter lundgren.) since the number of candidates exceeds the number of seats available, we must hold a secret ballot in accordance with the rules of procedure. rule 17 (1) of the rules of procedure shall apply. (the president read out the rule and then explained the procedure.) the vote will take place today at 12 noon. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
mrs gill, as you can see, this is now a purely theoretical question, which we cannot discuss in depth. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. this shows that democracy is taking on a life of its own. you were right, but i can't change it now. the vote is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 3.35 p.m. in order to allow the vote to be counted and resumed at 5.05 p.m.)
i am here to announce the results of the elections for the office of vice-president of the european parliament. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union. the absolute majority is therefore 359 votes. i announce the number of votes according to the alphabetical order of the candidates: fabio massimo castaldo: 113 votes the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. the commission is also proposing to extend the the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european parliament has voted to approve the commission's proposal. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the the absolute majority of the votes cast was therefore obtained by mr tajani, mrs mcguinness, mr wieland, mr valcárcel siso, mrs gáll-pelcz and mrs vălean. i congratulate these colleagues on their choice. (applause from the centre) that means there are eight more seats to fill in the vice presidential election. a second round of voting is required. if there are no comments, i assume that the candidates in the first round will maintain their candidacy. i see no contradiction in that. the nominations are upheld. i propose that the second round be held immediately.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to ask for a ten-minute break in the sitting so that we in the epp group and the other groups can briefly discuss how we are going to deal with the result, if that is possible.
ladies and gentlemen, we are now in the second round of voting. the second round of voting shall be by electronic voting. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i hope that the council will take them up. (the president explained the technical details of the electronic voting followed by a technical sample vote on a fictitious list of candidates. the president asks several times whether all members are familiar with the technology of electronic voting.)
i'll wait five more minutes. i don't know why the technology isn't working, and i'm asking for a little patience.
we now come to electronic voting. i shall now read the names of the candidates again in alphabetical order: castaldo, creţu, czarnecki, guillaume, lambsdorff, lunacek, papadimoulis, rehn, sassoli. the ballot box is open.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have had some disagreements here, so let me ask you a quick question: if we have eight people on the ballot, are there at least five to vote for? or is there no such thing?
you can choose one, you can choose none. but you can only cast eight votes. again, to clarify, we have nine candidates, but only eight spots to spare. that's why nine is invalid. the polls are closed. i am pleased to announce the results of the second round of the elections for the office of vice-president of the european parliament. the vote was 704. the number of valid votes cast: 691 the vote was taken at the end of the debate. the qualified majority is therefore 346 votes. i announce the vote of the candidates: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: so we need a third ballot. i will first ask the elected ones if they accept their choice, or if anyone would like to reject the choice. that's how everyone is chosen. (applause from the centre)
we are now in the third round of voting, using the same procedure. i would point out that in the third round a simple majority will suffice.
mr president, can you explain how invalid votes can be cast?
you can vote. then the machine registers your vote. then you can delete everything. then you didn't vote. it will be considered invalid. you have the right to refuse to vote. this is the same as if you cast an empty ballot in a postal or postal election, which is also considered invalid. i need to correct myself. i have just been made aware of a mistake concerning mr deer. it was a mistake of mine. i read a wrong number here. mr deer had 304 votes, not 384. i'm sorry about that. so he wasn't elected. mr rehn is now listed as a candidate in this third ballot. i don't know what that was about. it was a human error on my part. i guess i read the wrong number here. mr. deer, i beg your pardon. you'll have to run again in the third round. mr caspary, thank you for that information. the voting process is now open. the names are on the screen. i'm opening the third ballot. the polls are closed. i am pleased to announce the results of the third round of the elections for the office of vice-president of the european parliament. the vote was 706 the number of valid votes cast: 690 the absolute majority is therefore 346 votes, but a simple majority is now sufficient. i announce the vote of the candidates: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union's action plan for the environment (2007-2013). fabio massimo castaldo: 110 votes i note that the following have been elected: mr rehn, mr lambsdorff, mrs lunacek, mr papadimoulis and mr czarnecki. (applause from the centre) does anyone not accept the choice? that's not the case. i congratulate all the colleagues who have been elected. the bureau of parliament has been elected. as regards the election of quaestors, i propose that the deadline for the submission of nominations be fixed at 10.00 a.m. tomorrow, wednesday 2 july 2014. i'd like to ask that you place your nominations in office r00.101 - this is the office of the presidency - in the louise weiss building, in the hands of the director general of the directorate-general of the presidency.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the european council (meeting of 26 and 27 june 2014) (2013/2967 ((rsp)). i would like to begin by welcoming the president of the european council, mr herman van rompuy, who is the first speaker in this parliament in this parliamentary term who is not a member of parliament but represents the institutions. mr president of the european council, welcome to the first ordinary part-session of parliament.
president of the european council. - mr president, let me begin by expressing my warmest congratulations on your election. some of you have been here for a long time; many are new to this chamber; others are returning after a period away – congratulations to you all. together you reflect the changed experiences of the people of europe who voted for you. even compared to 2009, you all carry with you new expectations and new viewpoints on their behalf. let me also of course congratulate president martin schulz on his unique re-election, and i am looking forward to continuing our close cooperation. indeed, we live at a time where many things can no longer be taken for granted. politics and prosperity at national and european level as we knew them, jobs, borders, geopolitical stability and the european idea: all have come under pressure. our countries are leaving the worst economic period in a generation or more – a period for our union in which solidarity and responsibility have been put to the test like never before and in which, for the first time, we have experienced the true extent of our interdependence as european nations. the euro – and with it the union – has been saved from the existential threats of the financial crisis, and as president of the european council, i am grateful for the constructive work of your predecessors in legislating for a more solid monetary union. the recovery is now slowly – but solidly – under way, and growth is returning to all our countries. but as europe re-emerges, there are many challenges to be met. a thirst for hope, for tangible results – that was clear, again, in the results of this european election. working for the recovery is our biggest task – restoring confidence and preparing our union for the future. and it is with this goal in mind that, last week, the european council set out the union’s priorities for the years ahead. it was an extraordinary meeting in many respects, not least because leaders met on thursday in ypres, at my invitation, to commemorate the outbreak of the first world war beneath the menin gate. it was not a ceremony about the end of the war, but about how it could start, about the mindless march to the abyss, the sleepwalking, and the millions killed on all sides. four generations have passed, but the memories remain untouched of where we, as europeans, come from, of what we have overcome, what we must build, and what we must prevent. this awareness remained very much with the presidents and prime ministers in ypres, on thursday. in giving the union a direction for the years ahead, my intention was not for the european council to meddle in the day-to-day legislative work, but to play its role under the treaties, namely, and i am quoting now, to ‘provide the union with the necessary impetus for its development and define its general political directions and priorities’. we agreed unanimously on a programme of priorities for the next five years to guide the action and planning of the eu institutions over that period. it is important that all institutions organise their work accordingly, and also that national parliaments are kept closely involved. to this end, the european council will hold a debate on 16 july in the evening on this programme with jean-claude juncker, whom the european council – after a formal vote – is proposing to this parliament as next commission president. the priorities we have set out are fivefold. first: stronger economies with more jobs; making the most of the single market; reinforcing the economic and monetary union; promoting entrepreneurship, job creation and investment; and reinforcing our global attractiveness as a trading partner. this will be vital work. this means prioritising key goals, like the digital single market, strengthened economic coordination, smart regulation, and concluding the ttip negotiations by 2015. it also means finding the right balance between fiscal discipline and the need to support growth – something which the inbuilt flexibility of our stability and growth pact rules allows. all of these were key points during our discussions last week, not least as part of the european semester; and leaders also stressed the importance of addressing overdue investment needs – in transport, telecoms, energy, innovation, education – by mobilising means and fostering a positive environment for long-term investments. second priority: societies that are able to empower and protect all citizens. people expect europe to defend their interests and keep threats at bay, but also to respect their identities and sense of belonging. besides being a ‘great opener of opportunities’, the union must also be seen as a source of protection. in short, it must be stronger outside and more caring inside. this is why the focus must be on fairness and life chances for all, on unlocking skills and talents, on safeguarding freedoms, and on tackling abuses and fraud, which not only affect societies but undermine trust. third priority: a secure energy and climate future. this is one of the union’s major projects for the immediate future. we want to build an energy union to guarantee access to affordable, secure and green energy. the current context shows clearly the importance of reducing our energy dependency on, notably, russian gas. energy will be a major topic of our october european council, when leaders are expected to decide the union’s 2030 climate and energy framework. last week, we took stock of progress, and i am confident that we will achieve a good result in four months’ time, in line with the union’s ambitious agreed targets for 2050. fourth priority: a trusted area of fundamental freedoms. in this field also, cross-border issues call for cross-border solutions – whether on organised crime, justice matters, or migration flows. european citizens increasingly work, study, do business, get married or divorce across countries. the union must do its best to accommodate these changes – above all, it must consolidate the decisions and work currently in progress. this message was also at the heart of our review last friday of the strategic guidelines in the field of freedom, justice and security, as required by the treaty. on migration more specifically, it is important that our countries keep attracting talent and skills through legal migration, whilst dealing more robustly with irregular migration, notably through better cooperation with third countries. fifth and final priority: effective joint action in the world. maximising our global clout, engaging our global strategic partners, especially our transatlantic partners, and developing security and defence cooperation – these are all issues on which we, as a union, must keep working these coming years. but the most pressing priority will remain being a strong partner in our neighbourhood. to our east, friday’s historic signing of association agreements with georgia, moldova and ukraine has opened up an ambitious path of cooperation. on friday, after speaking with president poroshenko, the european council laid out a set of urgent and concrete steps on which our next decisions would depend. the council will assess the situation and, should it be required, adopt the necessary decisions. the european council leaders are committed to reconvening at any time for further significant restrictive measures. the years ahead are going to be essential for our union – a time of consolidation, perseverance, a time of change. let me conclude, therefore, by wishing you well. may these be good years for our union too. (applause)
member of the commission. - mr president, let me firstly congratulate you, president schulz, on your re-election as president of the european parliament. we all know about your very strong and sincere commitment to the european union, and i would like to underline the excellent institutional, political and personal cooperation that we have had over the last two-and-a-half years. i wish you well. i believe more than ever that the european parliament, the commission and the council must do everything in their capacity to work together to deliver concrete results for our european citizens. i would also like to congratulate you all – each and every one of you – on your election to this parliament. i wish you success for this legislature. i believe that it is very important that, alongside our national parliaments, which have strong legitimacy and great experience of presenting our democratic states, we continue to build our european democracy. to believe that it is possible in the 21st century to progress in the european path without democracy is a fundamental mistake. this is the house of european democracy; fundamental to the democratic nature of the european union; a unique institution, directly elected from across an entire continent. you are members of an institution that illustrates perfectly the very special nature of the european union as a community of values for peace, democracy, tolerance, freedom, justice, the rule of law, and solidarity. as we have seen over the past mandate, with your election comes a responsibility to listen, to cooperate and ultimately to take the necessary decisions for the benefit of the citizens of our continent. representing citizens from 28 different member states, with 24 official languages, coming from 186 national parties reunited in seven european groups; a mix of nearly 50 % new members and 50 % returning members; with 65 years separating the oldest and youngest member of this house, and with more women than ever as part of the parliament, i believe you are in a great position to give concrete expression to what europe is – a europe united in diversity. i want to underline what president van rompuy just said about the special character of last week’s european council and to thank him for his initiative to start this european council in ypres. when i was standing at the ceremony in ypres, i could not resist thinking that, whereas one hundred years ago young soldiers from our countries and many other countries all over the world were killing each other in the flemish fields, this week leaders – north, south, east and west – were discussing our collective future together. the ceremony, very moving and very well organised, was a potent reminder of why the eu was created and why peace on our continent is our first and greatest common achievement. regrettably, peace is not the case in all parts of the world, and also it is not happening in all parts of europe. peace cannot be taken for granted. this brings me to the issue of ukraine. at the european council, president poroshenko shared with us an assessment of the situation in ukraine. we praised his determination and commitment to de-escalating the crisis with his 15-point peace plan. but this ambition must be shared by all sides. that was the reason why, in the european council, we welcomed the positive first step made by russia in repealing the law on the use of force in ukraine. we have said that this commitment should be backed up with action: action that will stop arms and more fighters from moving into the region, action to withdraw troops from the border and return the three checkpoints to the ukrainian authorities, and action that ceases all separatist activity. in the meantime, president poroshenko has terminated the unilateral ceasefire. we, of course, have some understanding for his decision, given the special circumstances in ukraine, and the right of the legitimate authorities of that country to defend the integrity and sovereignty of ukraine. that said, we continue to call for a permanent halt to any violence on all sides. for this, we expect russia to fully exercise its influence on the separatists in order that they lay down their weapons. we have discussed not only the political and security situation, but also our economic and political support for ukraine. that is why we are going to host next week in brussels, on 8 july, a high-level meeting to coordinate international assistance to the country. i am happy that we can now build on the consensus that was achieved in the g7 meeting hosted by the european union in brussels, where it was clearly decided to go with this double-track approach: on one side, to show russia that this behaviour is not acceptable and that we are ready to take, if necessary, additional measures; and on the other side, to show our determination to do everything that is in our capacity to support an independent, sovereign and hopefully democratic and prosperous ukraine. so far we have disbursed eur 750 million towards ukraine. last week, we also completed the association agreement and the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement with ukraine, and signed similar agreements with georgia and the republic of moldova. quite significantly, president poroshenko said at that signing ceremony that he was signing the agreement for ukraine with the same pen that was used for the vilnius summit on the eastern partnership. that was a way of showing that history cannot be stopped. the ukrainian people have the right to decide with whom they want to be in the future. these were historic agreements – the most ambitious negotiated so far by the european union – offering a long-term political and economic commitment to our eastern neighbours. it is also recognition of the significant progress these countries have made since they became independent sovereign states over twenty years ago; recognition that they want to share the same vision for a prosperous, democratic model, and that they want to live by the european spirit and values, namely the sacred principle of freedom. they are an integral part of the eastern partnership, which we launched five years ago. the usual critics – the prophets of doom – have questioned our determination, but now they have seen that the determination of our partner countries is indeed there. after the vilnius summit last year, our resolve, and our partners’ resolve, is to move closer together in terms of our joint agenda on prosperity, peace and shared values. during my recent visits to georgia and moldova, i underlined to our partners our commitment to this shared vision. but the task ahead is substantial. the success of the agreement first of all relies on our partners’ willingness to carry out the reforms that they need to fight corruption and to establish a true rule of law; reforms that need to be endorsed not just by the governments, but also by the parliaments, civil society, the media, and the social partners in those countries. i believe that these agreements represent the beginning of a new journey on which the european union and these partner countries are embarking together. our relationship to ukraine and the eastern partnership in general also underlines the importance of energy policy. i believe it is now time for all the governments of europe to agree on what we have been proposing for some years, to have a truly european energy policy. if not now, when? in this field, the european council has endorsed the commission's proposal for an ambitious energy security strategy and has asked for more work to be done on both energy security and the climate agenda ahead of the october european council. because both issues are the two sides of the same coin. we have to address energy concerns and the climate agenda. they need to be agreed together, because it will not be possible to have a sustainable economy, with more jobs, if we have an unsustainable environment, if we remain vulnerable to external shocks, like the current crisis in ukraine, and suffer from energy insecurity. with our energy dependence estimated to increase to 27% by 2030 – importing 53% of the energy we consume – the solution is to create a low-carbon, competitive and energy-secure economy; one that moves away from our dependence on imports of crude oil and natural gas to one that diversifies our energy supply, both geographically and to include renewables; one that improves the efficiency of our energy consumption; and one that improves our energy infrastructure, our interconnectivity, and establishes a genuine energy single market by the end of the year. our international partners are doing this. so must we. that is why the european council has welcomed the review of our energy efficiency directive on which the commission will make further proposals in this month of july. it is good that the european council has reaffirmed its desire to see ambitious european leadership, with our agreed 2030 climate targets, at the september un summit, with a view to next year’s paris international conference. leaders of national governments nominated jean-claude juncker as president-designate of the commission. i have congratulated jean-claude in a personal capacity and on behalf of the entire commission. we have been working together in different capacities at a national and european level for around 25 years. his european credentials and experience, his commitment to our union and its values are beyond doubt. as the nomination process moves into its final stage, the european commission and i are committed to ensuring the best possible transition to the new college, so that the european commission can, together with the european parliament, continue to deliver a european union that is united, open and stronger. the european council last week also agreed conclusions of the european semester, showing that we have more enforced economic governance and co-operation at an eu level; and i would like to refer here to the refit programme for better commitments to better regulation as well as the programme on freedom, security and justice. since i will have the pleasure to speak with you twice more today for the results of the hellenic presidency and for the next italian presidency, i will not now go into detail on those priorities. it was important that the european council took the time to set out its own strategic priorities for the coming years. i very much welcomed this step both on the substance, but also on the process. it allowed the european council to focus on where the european union adds real value and to work on the priorities in the coming years. i am happy to see that it is now well accepted, the idea that i have been expressing to this parliament, that the european union needs to be big on big things but smaller on smaller things. the european council priorities also demonstrate an evolutionary process. they are clearly based on important work and results achieved during the past mandate. in the past mandate we were able together to avoid an existential crisis to the european union. when many people were predicting the end of the euro, even the disintegration of the european union, it was possible, in very difficult circumstances, to avoid that. i believe now we have a basis to go forward during this legislature to make europe strong, namely to focus with more attention on growth and jobs. last but not least, the priorities show the respect for the division of labour as laid down in the treaties, with the european council setting a strategic agenda, with the european commission assuming its right of initiative, and of course, with parliament having the basic democratic responsibility, preserving the possibility to reach an inter-institutional agreement on our planning and programming for the next mandate. the european union is working hard to learn the lessons of the economic crisis, as shown by the european council’s strong support for the country-specific recommendations and the european semester process, our collective exercise of partnership in economic governance. we are also, as a union, playing a crucial role in the ukraine crisis. we are leading globally the debate on climate and energy and we are developing our vision for freedom, security and justice. all of this together shows that we are in touch with citizens’ concerns, that we need to implement with ever more determination what we have set out to achieve these last few years. in the past five years there was no lack of decision. sometimes there was lack of implementation. that is why i believe that, together, we should do everything that is in our capacity to make our european union more united, open and stronger. (applause)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. as this is my first speech in my new capacity as president of the group of the european people's party, allow me first to make a general statement and also to ask the house how the colleagues who have been re-elected and re-elected feel now that we are meeting for the first few days in the european parliament. i myself feel honoured to be sitting here on days like this, when we have the new electoral mandate in mind, and i also feel obliged to the citizens who elected my party, who elected the various parties, to take responsibility here now and to shape european policy. this should create an atmosphere of trust, commitment, responsibility and mutual respect in our household. that is what i would like to see and what my group would like to see. i would also like to remind you that the fact that we are meeting here - we should be aware of this - is not something that god knows is taken for granted. my grandfather's generation was the generation that still had to fight wars on this continent, my father's generation was the generation that had at least a large measure of peace in europe, but half of europe had to live behind the iron curtain in unfreedom. and at 41 years of age, i belong to a generation which for the first time is able to act in a europe where we can live together in peace and freedom. that's why we should never forget that it's not a given that we're sitting here together. (applause from the centre) i would like to say one more thing about the election results. we had a stable turnout, we had a clear pro-european, strong, democratic result in the european elections. the advance of the right-wing radicals has been halted; they are not even able to form a group of their own. the 25th of may also includes the fact that ukraine voted pro-european. i would say that the voters in europe have voted for europe and have voted for europe together. this should be our mission! (applause from the centre) i would like to thank herman van rompuy for the nomination of jean-claude juncker to the council. the proposal that the epp presented to the voters in the election campaign has been nominated. thank you very much for that. i refuse to talk about an interinstitutional struggle. i have respect for all institutions at european level. but what is clear is that the power of an idea has been established, and that is the idea that you can present content to people before votes, before campaigns, and then you can present the staff to implement that content. the power of this idea has been established. and if in all areas of europe, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about more democracy in europe, then the next logical step is that if democracy is called for, then the decisions which are important for the future must be taken in a parliament. that is the logical link between democracy and parliament. (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european council, mr president-in-office, has described a wonderful, substantive proposal for the next few years. for us as the epp group, this will be the framework, the basis, on which we will now tackle the content. we want growth, we want respect for the national level, we want to learn the lessons of the crisis, we want to regulate the banks and stop the debt in europe. and we are interested in developing stability with our neighbours, especially in eastern europe. the principle we need to tackle the future is to raise awareness and to promote among the citizens of europe that we must be open to reform. reforms, changes are the key to the future. if europe is ready to go, if europe is ready to change in the present world context, then europe will have a wonderful future! (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would also like to express my group's wishes for good luck and good cooperation to all the newly elected members and, above all, to wish that we as the european parliament send out clear and unambiguous signals, namely that we are indeed representing the voice of those who are waiting for the european union to adopt a policy of social responsibility, solidarity, environmental responsibility and - i say this now consciously - animal welfare and animal rights. my faction has grown. i'm proud of it because we've expanded too. that means that we also have party movements in our group which are able to take up the voices of people who have been undermined in the political establishment of the european union, beyond our current political spectrum. it is a democratic achievement if we succeed in bringing the voices of those who have suffered and are suffering the most from the crisis into this parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have heard in the last few days that the summit was mainly a debate on the uk's ideas on how to proceed, whereas the juncker staff were not supported by the uk. i did not feel that there was a great difference between the british and the council's policy. i had the impression that thatcher's slogan "there is no alternative" was simply being carried forward. it is the basis of what the council has done in recent years and what it clearly intends to continue to do after the european elections. where are the reflections, the conclusions, how to deal with the election result, with the statement of millions of voters who say: 'we do not want an eu of liberalisation of rights, privatisation, drastic austerity policies, which above all threaten the rights to exist and the livelihoods of millions of people. we want answers! we want concrete answers to the problem of youth unemployment. we want answers on how to change the eu's free trade agreements. we haven't heard anything about that. we have only heard that the decision on the european semester will ultimately increase the pressure on the member states. let me be clear: we want answers! and we will continue to point the finger at this at every meeting - i promise you that now - with every speech by one of our members. we are also proud that we are the only group to have managed to be represented here by 26 women and 26 men. that's a result too! (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i also warmly welcome the new colleagues at this table. to good cooperation and hopefully to change! i would like to see a change that reaches the citizens who understand it, and not just talk about changes that we think are necessary and that in the end cannot be implemented to the extent that we tried to do in the last election, but we always failed. i have, as i have so often, observed this last summit. and i thought it was a good decision to go to ypres. i think that the commission has a duty to make a statement on this matter. symbols count in politics. especially when you have heard over and over again during an election campaign that the past does not matter anymore, it is good to work with such symbols. it is regrettable, however, that when such a powerful symbol is put up, a summit is held in brussels which does not make a good decision, particularly in the debate on the breakdown of the peace order in europe. i think we have to think very carefully about what happened in brussels and what did not happen. we have seen a meeting of heads of state and government. a few days earlier, a new contract with gazprom had been signed in austria. a few days after the brussels summit, 400 russian marines arrived in france for training. this contradiction of the european union in the conflict over ukraine and russia could really end tragically. the european union must finally show a lot of self-respect before its own positions, so that the signing of the association agreements does not bring us into very serious difficulties. i really believe that we are in a situation where it is becoming more and more advantageous for russia to destabilise and hinder what we want to change in the east of the european union for the better. i have known for a long time that it is much more difficult and much more expensive to stabilise a country than to destabilise it. if the european union is not really prepared to back up diplomacy with consistent economic sanctions, then i am very worried about the further development in the east of our continent. i was, frankly, shocked that president van rompuy had mentioned the decision for mr juncker in only one poor sentence. i am not one of those who think that this new axis, martin schulz/jean-claude juncker - as martin schulz likes to say - will change everything in europe. but i think it is important that these staffing decisions make european politics more visible to the citizens and that there could be a different commitment if they both take seriously what they have represented in the election campaign. it will be our role to insist on it again and again. the decisions to be taken have all been discussed at this summit in brussels. the copy and paste method has now become a proven method for the speechwriters of mr barroso and mr van rompuy. the energy union is a project which has not been advanced, which has been wrongly blocked and watered down in many areas, in particular by commissioner oettinger. it could be the european union's project of the future! it could be the european union's innovation project, where we embrace the new and say goodbye to the old! but i see the old man's men are being pushed back. what i really regret is that not only did martin schulz become president of the european parliament - which i think is promising, because he is doing it for the second time - but that the decision for martin schulz was also a decision for the continuation of the work of günther oettinger. he has not at all earned this future project of the european union, but has actually used up all the innovative spirit of his predecessor, mr piebalgs. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. after russia deliberately attacked the peaceful order of the european continent by annexing crimea, the european union is actually called upon to defend the peaceful order, not by military means, in view of the breach of the nuclear disarmament pact, the budapest agreement. i am convinced that this conflict cannot be solved militarily. but i also see that we cannot achieve anything unless we are prepared to underpin our diplomatic efforts with economic sanctions. i am not talking about 'against russia' and 'for ukraine', but about the development of democracy. for democracy, for civil rights, for the rule of law in ukraine, we must be prepared to work with economic sanctions as well.
i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments.
thank you very much, mr. glezos. i have not been able to see the full nature of your speech on the rules of procedure.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we are now getting a taste of what this new election period can be like. the people have voted by a large majority - and this is the first time - for the parties that say yes to europe, to this european project. a huge majority said yes. (applause from the centre) it is true that there are also voices, and they are legitimate voices, who have pointed out that not everything that happens here, that not everything that is done in europe is right and perfect. that's the way it is. that is why we have a mandate to do better in places where people expect us to make better policies. but the people did not choose to be clamoured, insulted, vilified. and that's why i'm appalled by the latest reports. people don't want us to be here, calling each other names, using slogans from the day before, defaming each other. they want us to do our job, to solve the problems, to take care of how growth is set in motion, how jobs are created, how we fight the unrest and the wars that are taking place here in the european environment! that's our job! that's why we have to break up. yes, conflict is part of it. but, mr farage and mrs le pen, something like that which you are presenting here - clownery, insults, slander - does not belong in this house, nor do the people want to hear it. you're not going to get anywhere with that, i'm sure. what is needed are very concrete decisions. and there's a great proposal from the council. that is what we were going to discuss today, what the council has proposed. he has presented a programme of his own making of policy for the next few years. this is a perfect, very good proposal: strengthening the economy, more employment, more investment, priorities on how we can improve trade, strengthen the internal market, smarter legislation, budgetary discipline. these are keywords which must now be filled with concrete content. we were chosen for this! we are not elected to have events like the ones that have just been held. i'm sure it'll be fine this way, too. we have a huge opportunity if we pull together to make good policy. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i am grateful to mr reul for coming slowly to the subject of this morning, namely the summit of heads of state or government, which we are going to discuss. but let me extend the ball in the direction of president van rompuy. mr van rompuy, i have a simple question for you. you've been listening very carefully. do you think that we would have needed this anti-european clamour that we have heard for half an hour now in this house if the european council had done a decent job in recent years? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. then i want to talk to the paper, because it's very important. so many cheap remarks, so many interesting headlines! but a strategy -- that's my understanding -- is a way of achieving goals. where is this road? why don't you tell us? we have an investment gap in europe that is larger than the entire european budget. how are we gonna fill them? where is the european council's contribution to this issue? we have youth unemployment which is escalating, particularly in southern europe. we have to make a contribution. why don't you make this a mandatory semester? we, the european parliament, are happy to be a partner in this. the commission's alleged strategy is to pretend that this is the great language of jacques delors. what is missing is the spirit, the political will and the courage of jacques delors. we have to work in this house for that! (applause from the centre)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr president, i have listened to your remarks very carefully and i agree with you that the adoption of the euro, which has now been achieved, is a great step forward and that it is important for the economy of lithuania and the european union. i wonder, however, why you are a member of a group which is openly opposed to the euro and to the european union, to the chances of this common european project. i wonder too - and this question may be put to your neighbours - why there are representatives of the five star movement in this group who are quite ... (the president cut the speaker off)
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, this is my first intervention in the new house, and i too would like to congratulate all of you who have been elected or re-elected to the european parliament. you have already witnessed a debate which was truly political. we have clearly seen what will be the new debating lines in this parliament. it is clear that those who are for europe must – and, i believe, they will – work together. therefore i would like to say a big thank you to all the leaders of the groups – mr weber, mr pittella, mr verhofstadt and ms harms – and all of you who have been clearly supporting european ideals and european cooperation with a view to the future. i also believe that support for europe in our member states very much depends on how europe is explained to citizens by the national leaders and on how effectively the national leaders can assume, at the same time, the role of european leaders. i think it is time to realise that these two roles cannot be separated: that the national leaders are also european leaders and that they have this dual responsibility – to both their own countries and the european union. we also have to be clear that the election result was very much affected by the fact that we are emerging from what was the worst economic crisis since the second world war. so of course citizens have been frustrated – and rightly so – because, to be honest, it has taken us too long to find an appropriate cure and appropriate solutions to the crisis. however, after all this, we can clearly say that we are rising to the challenge, we have to overcome the problems and we will work better if we work together on overcoming the remaining economic problems in europe. we have introduced new economic governance, we have made our banks healthier and stronger and we have finally managed to cut them off from the taxpayers’ purse. in that connection, i would like to remind our colleague mr verhofstadt that one of the architects of this new system, mr rehn, is now working in his group. i believe they will have ample scope for healthy discussions on how to progress in this area in the future. several of you referred to the nomination of jean-claude juncker for the commission presidency as a major achievement of the last summit. that is an accurate assessment because we have seen how the democratic will of the people was respected by the leaders and how that was reflected in this nomination. i believe this has paved the way for close and effective cooperation between the new president of the commission and the european parliament. we have also heard, in the statement by president van rompuy, that the european council is looking for new ways to use the treaty frameworks for even closer cooperation with this house. for the first time, we will probably use the articles providing for effective union programming involving all the institutions. the european council will be using the provisions on the new strategic guidelines, and i believe this will create new possibilities for cooperation among all the institutions. it will allow us to establish a new framework, in which we can act faster and adopt decisions much more speedily, and which will allow us to tackle what we see as one of the major problems in europe, namely the ‘implementation gap’: the fact that we often make decisions but it simply takes us too long to implement them. to conclude, i would like to highlight the importance of all pro-european forces’ working together. why? because we need to prevent europe from becoming xenophobic and anti-minority, be the minorities national, religious, sexual, or ethnic. we have already seen several indications of such a trend in sections of this parliament, and it is therefore very important that we defend fundamental freedoms and the freedoms for which europeans have been fighting over many decades. otherwise i fear we could end up in a europe where we would again have discussions along national lines, emphasising national and, indeed, nationalistic borders. i simply do not think that is what europeans deserve. what we need is to restore trust in europe by supporting growth, giving back to young people the chance to get a job and to plan for a bright future. we need to work on ways of making the european union more competitive and making our economy perform better, and of securing for europe in that way a position of leadership in the world. the world and globalisation need europe. they need our values and our respect for social justice, the environment and human rights. that should be the agenda to which all pro-european forces in this house should work during the next five years.
president of the european council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as always, i have been very attentive to all the speeches. the debate was different this time from other times because there was an exchange between you and not just with the commission or the european council. we took decisions at the european council last week. in the future we will be judged not on the basis of our speeches, some more poetic than others, some more inspired than others, some more verbally expressive than others, but on the basis of our decisions, on the basis of the results of our policies. we have taken certain decisions at this european council, the first formal council after the european elections, a special european council because of this very moving celebration in ypres. firstly, we have agreed on a 'strategic agenda', i.e. a priority programme for the coming years, which is an innovation. this is the first time that the european council has made an effort to outline a programme for the coming years, to set priorities, even if not in detail, without limiting itself to generalities. in fact, this decision was taken unanimously: the 28 prime ministers and heads of state agreed on this programme unanimously. other decisions unfortunately had to be taken by qualified majority, but we agreed on the content - what is most important - of the resolution. in fact, all the prime ministers and presidents around the table represent - although i have not counted - more than seventy or seventy national political parties. so they speak for many voters nationally. this programme is also important for you, because you will be able to judge the future institutions and their leaders on the basis of what has been agreed. we try to give meaning to these words, which are often empty words, like the words "change" and "reform"; it all depends on what we mean by the words "change" and "reform", otherwise it's just talk, it's just empty words. we have tried to fill in the blanks, to give substance - in general terms, i admit - to these notions of 'change' and 'reform'. i believe that the president-designate of the european commission will need your votes to be elected by you. the president broadly and even more strongly supports this approach. i believe that there is a very high degree of convergence among the major political groups in this parliament on the lines to be followed on this 'strategic agenda' for all the european institutions. the effort we have made to agree on this 'agenda' of priorities for the next five years is therefore important. secondly, we have - of course - proposed mr juncker as president of the european commission. ladies and gentlemen, when i attended the conference of presidents in april - three months ago, four at the most - i told those who were then leading the groups that i would try to do two things: avoid a clash of institutions and put forward a proposal on which you could vote before the summer. i kept my word. yes, i kept my word. it wasn't easy. it was not easy to gather this very large majority around the name of the future president of the european commission. i ask you again not to judge me by the number of sentences and words i say about this decision. i ask you to judge me and others on the decision itself, which is clear. i hope your decision is as clear as ours. we have agreed and decided on an association agreement with ukraine, georgia and moldova. we have certainly discussed this here in this part-session, but for these countries this is a very historic moment: for decades, for centuries, they have wanted to be part of the great european family. the association agreement makes the link extremely concrete. in kiev, ukraine, dozens of people died because of the refusal to sign the association agreement. we did it. yes, we signed it. i hope that a stable majority will be obtained in each of these countries to ratify this agreement, so that this close link between the 28 member states, the european union and georgia, moldova and ukraine will be sealed forever. we made a very important decision. thirdly, we have agreed, after the stockholm programme, on the broad guidelines for the area of freedom, security and justice. the next five years will be crucial in this respect. there is always - and i am very pleased to see this - a very large majority in the european parliament for the european project, with, of course, nuances and differences in content, but a particularly large majority for the european project as such. however, if we fail to achieve results, especially in terms of employment, prosperity and living standards, i am not sure that such a large majority will emerge in five years' time. the next five years will therefore be extremely important, not only for citizens, but also for the european project and for the functioning of the european institutions. so we have an obligation to deliver: once again, we will not be judged on the quality - albeit high - of our speeches, but on our results. the next five years will also be extremely important for stability and peace in europe. for the first time in decades, they are in danger: instability in one part of europe could affect stability in another part of europe. we must therefore do everything possible in the days, weeks and months ahead to find a political solution to the conflict, through negotiations of course. but to negotiate, it takes two. to negotiate, you must be in good faith. in order to negotiate, you have to keep your promises. to negotiate, you have to commit to a result. if necessary, we will have to take the necessary steps to make this commitment more concrete and more lasting. that is why the european council has stated that it will take the necessary decisions, including sanctions, to ensure that the negotiations and the political solution can succeed. the next five years are, in this respect, absolutely crucial for peace and stability in europe. ladies and gentlemen, i have come to the conclusion that we have a programme, which has been defined by the european council. the president-designate of the european commission will also present his programme to you and discuss it with you. i am confident that this programme will be in line with the 'strategic agenda' agreed by the 28 heads of state and government. however, it will be necessary to implement it later, because, as i said, we will not be judged on the quality of our programmes, on the quality of our speeches, but on the quality of our decisions. when we meet again next time - i am addressing you for the last time in strasbourg - in brussels, the very last time i will have the opportunity to attend a debate, i will be able to announce to you, on a crucial chapter, namely that of the energy union and the fight against climate change, the results and decisions of the 28 member states. this will mark a new direction for energy policy and a key direction for climate change policy. i agree that we must take advantage of this crisis, which has geopolitical dimensions, to make a qualitative leap forward, particularly in energy policy, but we will also make progress in other areas. however, as regards the end of my term of office, the october council will be devoted to energy policy and the fight against climate change, and this will be the first chapter on which we will take decisions. the other chapters will be left to the new heads of the european institutions, who will be responsible for them and will report back to you at meetings such as this morning's.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the balance sheet of the greek presidency (2014/2610 ((rsp)). ladies and gentlemen, we're about an hour behind schedule. that is why i ask that we proceed swiftly. we shall certainly have to set another date for the election of the quaestors. i shall now see how far we have come with the debate and then i shall announce a precise time for the election of the quaestors. i welcome the president-in-office of the european council, mr samaras.
ladies and gentlemen, before i open the debate, i would like to say this: we're about 35 to 40 minutes behind schedule. that is why i am now setting the election of quaestors for 1 p.m. instead of 12:30 p.m. i would be grateful if this could be shown on the screens. for those of you who are listening now, once again, the election of the quaestors will not take place at 12.30 as announced, but at 13.00. if we are to finish the debate earlier, we prefer it. but first, it's 1:00. we are now going to the vote.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr samaras, i would like to thank you for your report. i must disappoint you, i'm not greek. i feel like a stranger in this discussion. i would like to make a few brief points, however, about the last six months of the greek presidency. first of all, i would like to thank you for the conclusion of a whole series of documents which are very important for the stability of the financial markets, first of all, of course, the conclusion of the banking union. the banking union is the biggest step towards stabilising the financial system in europe, and in this respect we have really made a great step forward for europe. however, now that the european commission is working on the details, i am very concerned that in future the rescue funds will be financed disproportionately by the small banks and investment banks will be largely spared. it is also regrettable that the greek presidency of the council has been so eager to deepen the euro area with a whole series of measures. beyond the banking union, the big plans - we have discussed all this here: the commission's blueprint, the four presidents' presidency paper - have become little. the result was a policy of unilateral austerity, and unfortunately nothing has happened in the area of aggressive tax competition. we have too little investment, too high unemployment and a lack of fair financing of our public services, which is why we are now again discussing new debts. the council presidency has done little to address unfair financing, tax evasion and tax competition, and i hope that will change in the next six months.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, prime minister, when we visited greece at the beginning of the greek presidency, mr samaras, you highlighted how this presidency would be important not only for europe but also for your country. you called it the ‘come-back presidency’, and i think that today we can all agree that this come-back was very successful. your country returned to the financial markets; your country is returning to growth, and you achieved a structural surplus in your budget after many long years. on behalf of the commission, i really would like to highlight the dedication that we observed in every member of your team to using every single minute which was left before the parliamentary recess to pass the important pieces of the legislation that would make europe better served and stronger. i cannot agree with some of the comments i heard today to the effect that the presidency is not important. this is not true. the presidency is chairing nine of 10 sectoral councils, and the experts of the presidency are chairing more than 100 working groups. furthermore, i know that without the personal commitment, personal effort and determination to succeed, there is simply no success at the end of the presidency. therefore, i would really like to thank your minister, dimitris kourkoulas, your permanent representative, theodoros sotiropoulos, and your director-general, who is sitting behind you. i also want to thank all the experts with whom we have been working so closely. it was a very good team and collective effort which brought very impressive results. several of the members made a reference to the importance of the banking union, the single market act i and ii, the posting of workers directive, the package concerning the modernising of administrations in europe through e-government and new e-procedures, visa policy revision, the entire agenda related to justice and home affairs, and the historic steps which have been taken in the area of enlargement. all this was achieved thanks to your team and to the good cooperation with this parliament and the commission. i would like to give my personal thanks to your colleagues for their good work on the general affairs council, preparing the summits, discussing the horizontal issues and completing this very important file on the european political parties, which i believe will be quite instrumental for the next european parliament elections. your presidency came at a very crucial time for greece and for europe. i believe now that we can say – six months after the beginning of your presidency – that we managed to put europe on a stronger, safer footing. i would like to thank you for that and wish your country and your citizens all the best on the continued come-back to economic recovery as well.
president-in-office of the council. - mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their positive comments on our greek presidency, especially on the european maritime security strategy, which i have to say includes maritime zones and respect for the international law of the sea. i would also like to thank colleagues for talking about that the solutions that have been provided for the euro’s architectural deficiencies. i am sorry that, as a colleague has said, emphasis was placed mostly on greece and not on europe. i think some answers are indeed deserved. in 2010, when the greek debt crisis surfaced, our monetary union had no instruments with which to face it. we were totally unprepared. there was no esm, efsf, srm or srf – nothing. i believe that we are now better prepared to avert similar crises before they happen, or to face them if they do happen. if we were now to rewrite our roadmap out of the crisis, everyone agrees that we would do it differently. i was among those who criticised the policy mix from the very beginning. but my position, as prime minister of my country after july 2012, was not to criticise the policy mix or engage in an academic discussion about the perfect path to stabilisation; my problem was to save my country, given all the mistakes of the past and all the structural problems of the present. we modified what could be modified, we implemented what should be implemented, and we ended up delivering results. it was neither easy nor painless. we achieved the largest fiscal adjustment ever in the shortest time ever. we corrected our fiscal deficit by 8% of our gdp in two years, stabilised the collapsing economy, produced a primary surplus one year ahead of our programme and came out into the international markets much earlier than anybody could have thought only six months ago. despite the strict austerity measures, we reversed the trend of unemployment, which is now falling. we are putting an end to a six-year-long recession and are now starting recovery, and robust growth for the coming year is forecast. yes, the greeks have suffered a lot; and, yes, people in my country are still suffering. this is the first thing i said every time i met a foreign leader during the past four years, but things are now improving. we came to power just two years ago. in a few years i believe this will be a bad memory. if you like you can take the opposite example of argentina, a very rich country that went bankrupt back in 2002. twelve years later, they are still in crisis today and are again on the verge of collapse, with much more suffering and no hope. this is what we did not want to happen in greece, and we achieved our aim with the sacrifices and the maturity of the greek people and the determination of my government. some people did not want anything to change in greece. some people are still doing everything they can to block changes, to block privatisation projects, to scare away investors, and to keep the country in the misery trap we are trying to escape from. some people tried to use the greek crisis as a pretext for bringing us out of the euro or to use the architectural defects of the euro as a pretext for demolishing the euro altogether. we did not let them do that, and we are very proud that we did not, because things are indeed improving in greece, where we are coming out of the worst crisis we have had for decades. i would like to answer some meps by saying that i do not have to apologise to extremists or populists of any sort. i only serve the interests of my country, and i do not have to apologise to people who do not want anything to change and who tried to block – as i said before – investors and privatisations. i think it is beyond the dignity of my country and of any country to live on borrowed money. we have put an end to this. in doing so, i believe we have served the best interests of my country. concerning something that we heard earlier, greece is a democracy, and democracies persecute actions. democracies do not persecute convictions. members of golden dawn are persecuted by the independent judiciary because of their involvement in criminal acts. we take law and order very seriously. without law and order, no democracy can stand. golden dawn is persecuted as a criminal organisation because of its alleged involvement in crimes. greece suffered from a devastating occupation by the nazis. seventy years ago they were the worst tyrants the greeks had ever known. their admirers and their supporters are totally unacceptable, but i have to repeat that the leaders of golden dawn are persecuted for what they do, not for what they believe in. they are persecuted by justice, not by the government. this is the way it should be for any democracy in the world. (applause)may i add something i heard from somebody who was not very well briefed on gmos. we are proud that, as a result of our presidency, a member state can now, for the first time, unilaterally ban genetically-modified products, as was decided two months ago by the general affairs council and by the council of the ministers of the environment. i have one last point. regarding the crisis in ukraine, the presidency, in close cooperation with the commission and the external action service, followed the two-track approach, which is a political solution and more sanctions if required. i would like to finish by saying that we are already in continuous cooperation with the incoming italian presidency for the next semester, which i am sure will be – and must be – a very successful one. (applause)
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
, in writing. other the priorities of the greek presidency in the last six months, the promotion and implementation of growth and jobs in a more effective way in europe, the strengthening of the euro area and migration issues are all urgent and urgent issues for europe. the presidency has done a lot in these areas and in strengthening financial stability. however, instead of the right-wing policy of austerity, which has been so far misguided, the union should have finally really focused on job creation. although reducing youth unemployment was one of the greek priorities, the measures taken have not been able to deliver any significant results for the union's youth. it is job creation for all ages that will make it possible to ensure a sustained and more significant level of economic growth and to tackle many pan-european issues. the more jobs there are in europe, the fewer children there are who go hungry. it is unacceptable that some 25 million children are hungry in the european union, which puts the slogan of freedom, security and justice under its banner. unfortunately, the greek presidency was unable to tackle this problem by launching initiatives with long-term results.
the next item is the election of quaestors. this too is an electronic vote. i have received the following nominations: the candidates have informed me that they have been proposed with their consent. (the president explains the electoral procedure and ensures that members are familiar with the technical requirements of electronic voting. the president shall call the vote. ) (the results of the elections are shown on the screen before the president has declared the poll closed. the president shall declare the election void and order the election to be repeated.)
mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. in this house, rules must be obeyed. the rule is that a polling station is closed when i declare it closed. i didn't declare it closed. (applause from the centre) i had not declared this election closed. if a technician in this house presses a button, i cannot prevent that, but it does not make the voting process correct. so we're going to repeat this election. (interruption of the debate) that's a good lead. i waited in solidarity with the colleagues who were partly in the elevators. i will tell you now, "we are opening the voting process", then i will give you two to three minutes to vote, and then i will close the voting process. the technicians can only work in this house after the phrase 'the voting is closed' has been uttered. i ask that this be respected. (the vote was taken at the end of the debate) i am here to announce the results of the election for the office of quaestor of the european parliament. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union. the required majority was therefore 339 votes. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has also been asked to submit a report on the implementation of the new rules. the commission is also proposing to extend the the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. congratulations on your election. (applause from the centre) a second round of voting is required. (the president asked mr karski and mr de jong whether they would continue to stand as candidates, to which they replied in the affirmative.) (the second ballot is held) the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. mr karski has thus obtained the necessary absolute majority and is elected. (applause from the centre) we have now completed all the elections necessary. i congratulate all my colleagues on their election.
the next item is the vote on the motions for resolutions. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate. (the sitting was suspended at 1.10 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ladies and gentlemen, please join me in welcoming mr ales bialiatski, the belarusian writer and chairman of the viasna centre for human rights, to the podium. (applause from the centre) i'm not sure i understand. you were finally released on 21 june after almost three years in prison. this house has worked very hard for your release on several occasions and in the end, thank god, you were released. you have been nominated for the sakharov prize for freedom of thought in this house. i am very pleased, together with my colleagues, that you can attend our meeting today as a free man. once again, welcome and my deepest respect for your courage! (applause from the centre)
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the programme of action of the italian presidency (2014/2609 ((rsp)). i therefore warmly welcome the prime minister of the italian republic, mr matteo renzi, to our house. welcome to the prime minister's office.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, i wish you all the best and the italian people and institutions wish you well in the mandate you are about to begin. i am glad that the commission has taken this step, and i hope that the council will take it. you have a great responsibility: the council has chosen to respect, as was its duty and as i believe was politically correct, the prerogatives of parliament and the respect for the electoral campaign. for all these reasons, therefore, i am happy and honoured to represent my country. (applause) i would like to thank i leave to the presidency, mr president, the written document dealing with all the subjects which we wish to bring to the attention of the institutions in the italian semester. i shall therefore not make a specific written statement on the achievements and choices made by italy during the six months of the year, but will leave it to your attention in the written text which we shall be handing to you. i am trying to ask myself and all of you what the debate on european policy is today after the crisis we have all experienced and also the political crisis we are experiencing. let me put it in a joke: if europe took a selfie today, what image would come out? may i say this with extreme concern? the face of fatigue would emerge, in some cases resignation; if i had to summarize it, i would say that europe today would show the face of boredom in the selfie. but it 's incomprehensible . out here, the world is moving at an extraordinary speed, and time offers us wonderful opportunities to understand how much the future may need us. i want to give you a concrete example, do it to me first. you finished the greek semester this morning: so there's a delivery route between greece and italy. around the world, if we pause for a second to reflect and imagine what the witness is between greece and italy, we think of things that are extraordinarily fascinating and full of suggestion. some might think of the relationship between anchises and aeneas, others of pericles and cicero, greece and italy might be the agora and the forum, the temple and the church, the parthenon and the colosseum: but we don't think about that when we're debating in europe between greece and italy, and we don't even think about the questions about the meaning of life despite aristotle and dante alighieri or archimedes and leonardo da vinci. we think about the financial crisis, the spread, the economic valuations and the financial difficulties. why would you do that? because the wound left by the recent economic downturn is very strong in our bodies. let me be clear: i do not think we can underestimate the financial aspect and i shall go into it very firmly and very convincingly in a few moments. there is a big economic and financial theme: but italy argues that the great challenge of the european semester is not just to list a series of appointments that will also be there and i hope they will see the convinced participation of parliamentarians and european parliamentarians. i'm not going. the real, great challenge facing our continent today is to rediscover the soul of europe, to rediscover the deep sense of our being together. because if we are to unite our bureaucracies, i can guarantee you that we italians have enough of our own bureaucracy. either there's a strong, deep identity to recover together, or we lose the challenge that we face. i said that i must not give the impression - and i do not want to give the impression - that i underestimated economic and financial matters. i would add, and i want to say this with great clarity and conviction: i am here representing a country which was a founding member of the european union and which continues to make a significant economic contribution to the european institutions every year. we italians are among those who give more than they receive and we are happy and proud of that because the greatest value is not the economic one. but i must also say that i represent, or rather i am one of the many members of a political party which has received the most votes in all of europe: the italian democratic party. nobody took the votes of the pd (applause) and i say to you that we took these votes not by blaming europe for the crisis we are experiencing but by recognizing that in italy the problems are caused by italy and not by europe. we have used a language of truth; we have said that "we" must make our reforms, that "we" must change the bureaucracy, the judiciary, the tax system, that "we" must change the institutions and at this moment, mr president, the italian senate is voting in committee on the constitutional reform that changes the rules of the game in our country. so we know that we have to ask "us" first for the strength to change if we want to be credible. italy does not come here to ask europe to make changes it is not capable of making. (applause) italy comes here to say that it is the first to want change and that it believes in the european institutions. and he comes to say it with the conviction and determination - i would say the courage and pride - of those who know that they represent a great country which, when it enters the european institutions, does not ask but gives. it is clear, then, that the economic question we are facing and the discussion which took place in the last council are not simply a request by some countries to change the rules. we were the first to say that we want to respect the rules and we do not ask to change them. but we say that those who remember that we all signed a pact together, our predecessors, called the stability and growth pact, respect the rules. there is stability but there is also growth and the demand to have growth as a fundamental element of european economic policy does not make it a country: it is not for italy. (applause) without growth, europe has no future, it is not a single country that has a problem. (applause) that is why in the semester ahead, we want to say this with great serenity: we do not ask for a judgment on the past. we 're not interested in judging the past . we're interested in starting the future. right away. the outside world is moving at twice the speed of europe. do we have a desire or not to make up this gap? are we willing to be at the forefront of information and communication technologies, of major investments in climate change in the run-up to next year's paris meeting? the strategic importance of the human capital issue? there will be no europe worthy of the name until there is a european civil service for our young people, for the new generations, who can see in this continent the opportunity for human growth for themselves. (applause) i would like to thank there will be no room for europe if we accept to remain just a dot on google maps. we are a community, a people, not a geographical expression - to use the expression which was addressed to italy by a great austrian politician in the 19th century. for this to happen, i believe that in the italian-led semester we must be able to tackle with strength the question of the simplicity of our institutions and of european political life. it may seem strange to you that the term "simplicity" is used: but it's a big political battle. and if in this smart europe we all want to build together we are going to be side by side with those who have different political views, this must be a positive fact, a fact that makes us proud, not a fact that makes us ill. that is why i believe, mr president, that a europe without the united kingdom would not simply be a less wealthy europe, it would be less europe, it would be less itself and we will do everything in our six months not to recover different positions, which were also in the last european council, but to affirm that those values of investment in a different europe, which were also expressed in the last debate in the european council, from different positions must be brought together in unity. because we believe that europe can be the place of the future if we have the courage to take action now. if we have the courage to say that europe must be and must return to being a frontier. it is physically, it is geographically, it is in everyday life. europe is a frontier also because, if we look at the geographical map together, we see the country with the largest number of kilometres of coastline in relation to the size of the territory. we are geographically bound to be a frontier. this poses a lot of problems for us and we in italy know something about it at the moment. at a time when the difficulties that are particularly present in libya - not in north africa in general and not in north africa in general - but specifically in libya are causing a series of massacres in our mediterranean sea, the mare nostrum of the latins, which we are trying to deal with with italian operations and which, together with the heads of government and certainly with the participation of the commission, we will be able to deal with in a more decisive way for the future through the frontex plus operation. but the problem is not just about immigration or what's happening in north africa right now: is to try to reverse the approach. it is a fact that africa must see europe play a leading role, which perhaps must be greater not only in economic needs, in the investments of our companies, in the attempt to deal with the energy question, but also - let me say this - in the human dimension. you, ladies and gentlemen, represent a great responsibility, an extraordinary vertigo. you are a beacon of civilization. you represent, as does europe, the civilization of globalization. (applause) i would like to thank if europe is not outraged by a woman named asia bibi, whose name i want to hear pronounced in this house, who has been imprisoned for four years for being a christian in pakistan, then we are not living up to our calling, our destiny. if we are faced with the girls being kidnapped in nigeria by a fundamentalist group that is kidnapping those girls simply because they are being educated in western values, if there is no reaction from europe, if there is no reaction from you, if there is no reaction from us, we cannot call ourselves worthy of the great responsibility we have. if we continue to use phrases, empty slogans, rhetorical words, if we continue to close ourselves up within our borders without having the courage to affirm our values, we will not go anywhere and we will lose the dignity of being european politicians. (applause) i would like to thank let me repeat that in conclusion, mr president: we are a frontier. italy wants to live this semester immersed in the spirit of european debate with great determination, bringing its voice on foreign policy into a framework in which we say forcefully that it cannot be ignored - it was also the subject of the last council meeting - the voice that demands freedom, that demands europe, that comes from ukraine and the eastern countries of our continent and at the same time we want to say with great determination that we do not build a europe against our closest neighbour. we cannot be blind to what is happening in the middle east at the moment, with children who have the right to grow up and - let us say it with great frankness - europe can and must do more to assert the right to a homeland that the palestinian people have and to say that israel not only has the right to exist - let me put it this way - israel has the duty to exist, being a community that reminds us all of the value of memory and of the future. we must continue to work during our term, at the asem summit in milan on 16 october, to assert the idea that european foreign policy towards asia must have a leap forward. all these issues, which it would be very interesting to examine one by one, lead us to say that our semester wants to be a semester in which we are not afraid to say that politics has its dignity and that in the dignity of politics we rediscover the deep meaning of our being here. that's why there's no italy asking for shortcuts: here is an italy that with courage and pride offers its willingness to do its part. and there's also, let me tell you, a new generation. if i were to conclude with a reference from which i started in the relationship between greece and italy, i would say that it is the telemaco generation. there is a beautiful epic in literature about ulysses, because ulysses is the great character who fascinates and moves, and also because ulysses has animated not only ancient literature but also, from dante alighieri to joyce, the thought and literature of many parts of our continent. no one is talking about telemachus: but telemachus, if you think about it, has a task that's even more difficult. it's no coincidence that at the beginning of the odyssey, athena calls him and says, "you can't be thinking about sitting here waiting". our generation too, those who were not even 18 when the maastricht treaty was signed - i was not even an adult at the time - well, our generation has a duty to rediscover itself telemaco. he has a duty to deserve the inheritance. we do not consider the great fruit of our fathers a gift given forever but an achievement to be renewed day by day. the call for action in this european semester is not simply to discuss economic issues, on which - i can assure you - we will make our voice heard with all our strength, with the strength of those who are a great country and who contribute more to the union's budget than they receive. but it is not simply in the coin that we have our destiny in our pocket: our destiny is to rediscover ourselves as heirs, to have the right to call ourselves heirs, to take the great tradition from which we come and say that we will ensure a tomorrow for this tradition. we owe it to our children, we owe it to those who have died over the centuries so that europe would not be just a geographical expression but an expression of the soul. good luck to all of us. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the commission. - mr president, allow me first to extend my warmest wishes to you, prime minister renzi, for a successful presidency of the council. i would also like to congratulate you very sincerely on your speech, which was full of passion for our common european project. during this transition period, the commission will do its utmost to support you in delivering your presidency priorities, because time does not stand still. we have a collective responsibility to ensure a smooth transition and to continue to work together hand in hand: the commission, the council and its presidency, as well as the european parliament. i particularly want to welcome the clear commitment that you, prime minister, have made to taking forward further reforms in italy as well as in the european union. the world is changing. we cannot stand still, and your impetus for reform, both in italy and in europe, is of the essence for our collective success. prime minister, you spoke eloquently about the transition between greece and italy. in many respects, greece and italy have been together quite recently. not so long ago, three or even two years ago, people were talking about ‘grexit’ – about greece leaving the euro. many cassandras were predicting the implosion of the euro. i remember well when, in november 2011, several governments wanted to put italy firmly under the supervision of the imf, when italy was on the brink of disaster. it was not just greece or ireland or portugal or spain that had financial sector problems: italy, one of the biggest economies in europe and indeed in the world, was very close to financial disaster, and it was possible to avoid that disaster. i am proud that the commission, unlike others, always stood behind italy, and always showed our commitment to, and confidence in, italy as one of the biggest economies in europe and the world. we have to build on this. during the terrible circumstances of recent years, we were able to avoid disaster, we were able to stand together to survive the crisis, we were able to provide the requisite stability, in spite of all those who predicted the implosion of the euro or even the disintegration of the european union. now we have the conditions in which to use all our collective experience, our ideas and our commitment to make europe grow, to make europe invest, and to enable europe to generate the jobs that our people need and want. together, across all our three institutions and with all our member states, we need to ensure that we deliver what is required for our citizens. what they want most is results. what they want most is growth and jobs. as one of the original six signatories of the treaties of paris and rome, italy has played a fundamental role in shaping our union from the very beginning. alcide de gasperi and altiero spinelli, as founding fathers of the european union, understood the need to move europe into a new phase of history after the tragedy of the first half of the 20th century. it is certainly refreshing today, here in strasbourg, in the european parliament, to listen to a prime minister of italy who brings this commitment and this promise of reform, because we need a strong italy at the centre of a strong european union. that is why it is very important, prime minister, that you now bring this impetus for reform to the european union. in this presidency, italy’s twelfth, and at this important transitional moment, it was very fitting that you spoke less today about the economy – though i know well how important you believe this is for your country and for europe – and instead, rightly, put the emphasis on reminding all of us that europe is a community of values and that we should not be arrogant about this. we should not be arrogant about european civilisation, but rather be proud of what europe has been giving to the world, and what europe can still give to the world. this presidency comes at the start of a new parliamentary term: a term that will be of critical importance for the future of the european union; a term that will see the union move into the next phase of recovery. it is a transitional moment that builds on the progress we have made – and we have made progress – ranging from stronger economic governance in the european union and the banking union to concrete growth, investment and social justice, as was agreed last week by all the members of the european council with the strategic priorities for the next five years. the challenge is great, but the reforms to which italy is committed at home and the reforms it is now trying to bring to the european union show that the ambition is there for building a better union. it is a top priority to deliver on our objectives for a smart, sustainable, inclusive social market economy: to deliver on our goals for jobs and employment; to deliver on the fight against poverty and for social equality; to deliver on research and innovation, education and skills; and also on the very important climate and energy agenda. we have certainly made progress but, honestly, not enough. that is why, during this half of the year, we are taking forward the mid-term review of the europe 2020 agenda, to examine properly how we are all doing and to explore what we need to change in a post-crisis period. getting this right will require the utmost coordination between member states and between the european institutions, because the lesson from european integration is that it works best when we work together and cooperate in close partnership. i support the main themes of the incoming presidency: growth, citizens, external action. starting with growth, because this is an issue of vital importance, allow me to highlight five concrete results that i hope we are going to achieve during the next six months. first and foremost is the task of tackling unemployment, especially youth unemployment. this remains our absolute number one priority and i welcome the italian presidency’s particular focus on the issue. we simply cannot meet our long-term growth ambitions if we continue to have more than 25 million unemployed, a sixth of whom are under the age of 24. we need to ensure that the time lag between the economy picking up and businesses recruiting again is as short as possible. the commission will be holding a technical seminar on this issue on 14 july. i would like to urge all member states to join italy and france in adopting operational programmes to take advantage of the youth guarantee and youth employment initiative, the result of a collective decision taken by the european council. the reality is that we are not completely delivering on the commitments made for our young people. some countries are already advancing on the youth guarantee, others not really. secondly, we need to use the seven-year budget smartly and without delay, and we need to agree the budget for 2015. although it is smaller than some of us, namely the commission and parliament, wanted, the budget for the next seven years amounts to eur 1 trillion, so it can be a major lever for growth. it needs to be fully exploited. the budget represents a large proportion of public investment in many member states: more than 80% of public investment in many of our member states, particularly those that have very little margin for national investment. so i would urge member states to finalise the partnership agreements as a matter of priority. thirdly, we need to support our small and medium-sized businesses and our industry through research funds and access to long-term financing. this remains critical in the european economy: there is not yet enough funding for our smes. much as we need fiscal consolidation and structural reforms, we also need targeted investment for growth and jobs. smes represent 99% of europe’s private companies, employing two-thirds of europe’s total workforce. it is thus vital that we breathe life into them in order to inject growth into our economies, making the best use of our new horizon 2020 research and innovation budget – at around eur 80 billion it is one of the biggest research programmes, if not the single biggest, in the world – and working towards a situation in which our industry accounts for 20% of europe’s gdp by 2020. let me now salute vice-president tajani, until now vice-president in a commission of just 28 members and now vice-president in a parliament of 700 people. he was, in the commission, one of those promoting this agenda for industry and smes and also making progress on dossiers such as pension funds, shareholder rights and access to finance. these will be critically important. fourthly, we must continue to open up. i particularly enjoyed, prime minister, what you said about the idea of reform and openness. there are some people in europe, in all political families, who believe that the best way to fight globalisation, or to respond to globalisation, is to close up, to be protective and to hide behind the table. this is not the europe i want, and i think it is not the europe that you want. we believe that european civilisation is a civilisation for globalisation, and that the message we have to send to our children is a message of confidence and openness, not one of being protectionist or chauvinistic, of being xenophobic, or being mediocre. this is the real debate in european politics today: are we going to embrace the possibilities of change or reform or are we going to give up to the negative forces of populism, chauvinism, protectionism and extreme nationalism? i believe we are on the right side if we go for an open europe – a europe which has confidence in itself. that is why it is critically important to deepen the single market, especially the digital single market. we have to strengthen our trade relations, including with the united states, building the biggest free trade area in the world. certainly we must address the concerns which have been expressed in that regard but we should not give up on europe driving the world in terms of the economy: europe being the number one trade bloc in the world, with a surplus in trade of goods, services and agriculture. finally, turning to our climate and energy needs: we will be launching the review of our energy efficiency directive this month. we will carry out stress tests on our most vulnerable countries to ensure that we meet our energy demands, and we will focus, at the un conference in september and the october european council, on our 2030 climate targets alongside our energy security strategy, to demonstrate european leadership ahead of next year’s international conference in paris on climate change. i know the italian presidency is absolutely committed to this twin goal: the energy union and the fight against climate change. the theme of the world expo in milan 2015, ‘feeding the planet, energy for life’, reflects the complementarity between italy’s priorities at home and those of its rotating presidency of the council of the european union. honourable members, we also want europe to remain a free, secure and just place for our citizens to live in. significant progress has already been made over the past five years but work remains to be completed. the stockholm programme will come to an end this year; and the european council has just endorsed the commission’s proposal on a future agenda. we must deal with our asylum and humanitarian challenges. some member states are significantly affected by migration flows into europe, italy being one of them. i was in lampedusa, i remember what i saw there, and the commission position has always been one of asking for more cooperation between member states. the situation of sea refugees in search of a better future remains a source of deepest concern. thus we must pursue our goal of a genuine common european migration policy with equitable burden sharing between the countries most exposed to migratory pressures. we must strengthen the tools we have and use them to their full capacity: we should fully enforce the recommendations of the mediterranean task force; assure the exchange of information with third countries to tackle irregular migration flows; strengthen the schengen area; defend the principle of free movement; and, at the same time, tackle all forms of abuses and address the new and serious challenges of cybercrime, cross-border organised crime, trafficking in human beings, violent extremism and terrorism. honourable members, we must ensure that we continue to have a strong global voice with our partners and neighbours. the current situation in ukraine is well known and requires our attention as a priority, and there is also a new momentum now in the eastern partnership, where agreements have recently been signed with ukraine, moldova and georgia. but the situation in the middle east – in libya, rightly highlighted by the prime minister, in egypt and in the whole mediterranean area – requires our fullest attention. it is crucial that we continue to work closely with these countries, as well as taking forward accession negotiations with the candidate countries, a task to which i know the italian presidency attaches great priority. next year there will be another large international negotiation that will require our careful attention: the post-2015 millennium development goals. the european union and its member states represent over half of the world’s official development assistance – another thing that we should be proud of, and that our young people are proud of. we have a moral responsibility, as well as a strategic interest, to ensure that, on the basis of our values, we help our partners to improve their prosperity and their security. and ensuring a successful outcome at that conference next year requires preparation today. the same goes for asia. there will be an important asean summit in milan during the italian presidency. i believe that asia is a very important continent full of opportunities. we have a lot to gain if we engage with asia and, at the same time, fight for the common standards that everyone should agree to if we want open markets and open economies. so there is a lot of work ahead of us. we need to build on the experience we have gained collectively and we need to show political will. prime minister, what i saw from your commitment today and from the italian presidency programme is precisely that political will: the idea that, more importantly than bureaucratic or technocratic decisions, we need the democratic consensus to go ahead with them. you have great authority precisely because of the results you have achieved in italy. i believe the time has come in europe for the forces from the left, the right and the centre – all those who believe that europe can be part of our vision and that europe has not only a market but also a soul – to work together and to work to reduce the gap that often exists between statements made and their implementation. in this way we can put an end to what has been too common, namely national leaders’ taking decisions collectively in brussels and afterwards putting the blame on europe when they have not done their homework in their capitals. we need to work together at all levels to understand that this is a common task and that we are not going to succeed if the parliaments at national level blame the european union or if the european union blames the governments and the member states. we can win only if you work together and if you understand that the european union is not just part of the solution, but is fundamental to our solution. prime minister, since you quoted odysseus, and so many figures of classical greece and rome, let me also conclude on that note. europe is a never-ending project, so part of the frustration with europe is that we are always thinking about it as some kind of completed building, whereas europe is also a voyage. it is like odysseus’ voyage to ithaca. we should make it happen step by step. we cannot constantly compare it with what will be a complete achievement. this process of european integration is something new. so let us do like odysseus: let us enjoy the journey towards a stronger, open and free europe. (applause)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, welcome and respect for the election result. it's a big responsibility you're pulling out of this election result. europe is strong when the member states are strong, when italy is strong. you yourself have admitted and described that you are stronger as a council chairman if you do your homework at home, tackle your own reforms at home. congratulations on that statement, on that statement. we have heard many speeches here as members of parliament, many ambitious plans for the future, and we are of course also looking at the balance of the italian presidency, what will come out of it. we hope that you will take up many of the things you have promised here. the central point is the question of generating growth. that is why we need reforms. my group, the european people's party, has no need to catch up. we have been responsible in many countries - portugal, greece, ireland, spain - as the european people's party, we have done a lot for our citizens and we have been confirmed as the strongest group despite these difficult decisions. that means we have taken the path of reform. and now it's up to you to follow the same path. there are many points on which we agree. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council, and the council will be consulted on it. on one point, mr prime minister, there are unfortunately some differences. the question is whether we have learned the lessons of the crisis, the crisis of the last few years. one of the lessons was that we regulate the financial markets. and so many laws were made to control the banks, to control the financial markets. no one would think today that because the financial situation has calmed down, because the markets are more stable, we need to relax the laws we have made for the financial markets, we need to relax them a little. no, we all expect the ecb to play by the rules! that was the first lesson. the second lesson: debt does not make the future, debt destroys the future. that was the second lesson we learned in the crisis. we have also given legislative answers: the stability and growth pact, the sixpack, the twopack, our laws here - which, by the way, were passed against the social democrats' votes. we have been responsible for this in parliament, for making us more stable, more sustainable. and now, suddenly, because the markets are becoming a little more liberal, we hear, especially from social democrats and socialists, we have to be more flexible, we have to re-interpret this, we have to rethink all this. i'm telling you, this is the wrong way. we must apply the lesson we have learned and take it seriously. that is the only way out of the crisis: building sustainable households. i ask the prime minister of italy: with a total debt of 130% of gdp, where is the money to come from? you said yourself that you wanted to give your children a chance and not add to the debt. let me just make one more point. there is an argument that reforms will be introduced when we have more time. mr renzi, i understand the message, but the president-in-office of the commission, mr barroso, has already given french president francois hollande more time to implement reforms. so far, we can't see that the promise is being kept. that is, how can we be sure that reforms will be implemented? i would like to make one final point: if we give italy and france more time, if we allow them to take on more debt, how are we to argue with portugal, greece, spain and ireland, which have done their homework and learned their lesson, which have taken on the burden of having to be more flexible just because it is a g7 country, just because it is now one of the big ones? ladies and gentlemen, rules are there to be followed. there is no difference between small and large countries in the european union! finally, i would like to give you a few words on this subject: you spoke of the confidence that the citizens place in us. what if you make a promise to your friend, make a rule, and then break it? you'll destroy the trust. and if we in europe do not understand that we must take seriously and implement what we agree and decide in europe, as the president of the commission has said, then we will destroy the citizens' confidence. the most important lesson is that we should take decisions seriously and implement them, each one in his own responsibility! (applause from the centre) (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. for the ecb: i respect the independence of the ecb. it has acted as a stabiliser in europe during the crisis and has taken its responsibilities. the central question is not whether or not some loans are good. i repeat: the central question is whether or not we take seriously what we have agreed - and this was supported by the socialist and social democratic votes - to adopt the stability pact unanimously in the european council. that is the focus of the debate. and if we take it seriously, we build trust. that is the way of the european people's party! (applause from the centre)
i am not sure that the commissioner is aware of this. i think that was an interesting speech. the impression is given that one is concerned with the good and the important and the valuable, thus pointing out that: "we do not need to concern ourselves with whether what we have done in the past few years was right or wrong. we just start over. this gives the impression that everything that has been valid until now should also be valid. then you get phrases like, "it's about people, not numbers". but i ask you to be careful that when the economy and finances are not right, when the states are in trouble, the people cannot be helped either. that is, the prerequisite for everything is orderly finances, the prerequisite is that the economy is functioning, the prerequisite is that revenues are being generated. otherwise, nothing good can be done to people. that is why i am very concerned that your suggestion that we want to start things over here is an indication that we want to reinterpret growth in a way that is different from the way many in this parliament have understood it. we agreed in all the states and here, that we had a large majority to ensure that financial stability is the precondition for building something, and that growth is not organized by spending more money, but by creating structures. we have tens of billions of euros in the youth unemployment fund and none of it is being called up! the problem is not less money, the problem is: how do you do it, how do you use the money in a way that it makes an impact? how do you create structural change, structural reform? how do you create innovation, and how do you create research and new venture? not by putting in place new rules that prevent or slow down companies from investing, but quite the opposite. they don't need more money and more spending, but they need more ideas, more innovation, more technology, more willingness and risk to do something new. that's the way to go in europe!
in writing. the italian presidency has set good priorities in the field of social affairs and employment: i also think that the issues of youth unemployment, workers' rights and the social dimension of emu are central. i think it is good that the presidency of the council is going to promote the european platform against undeclared work. a clear definition of undeclared work is important for the protection of workers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted. the platform should not only serve as an information exchange but also take on concrete tasks such as eu-wide training programmes for inspectors and the organisation of cross-border labour inspections. i also welcome the fact that the mobility of workers is one of the priorities of the presidency. however, mobility must be fair and voluntary. the eures reform must promote crossborder partnerships. the lack of information on employment and social security conditions in other member states is one of the main obstacles to crossborder labour mobility. eures should therefore not be used merely for job placement by employment agencies, but the social partners should continue to meet the increased need for information and advice. i hope that these priorities will not remain mere declarations of intent. the social dimension of the economic and monetary union is particularly important in that we need to set binding targets on employment, education and social exclusion, for example. only then can we finally achieve social progress in europe.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 10.05 a.m.)
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 3 july 2014.
ladies and gentlemen, many member states of the european union have been hit by severe floods this year, most recently in bulgaria, where a whole quarter of the town of varna was washed away and more than a dozen people, including a number of children, lost their lives. in may, the worst flooding in decades hit bosnia and herzegovina, serbia and croatia, leaving a trail of destruction. in eastern croatia alone, more than 150 000 people had to be evacuated and many more were killed by the devastating floods. the economy, and in particular agriculture, in these regions will take many years to recover from this severe destruction. i have seen for myself how the danger of land mines lying in the areas is a danger that is difficult to control. i would like to mention what we have experienced here on behalf of many colleagues who have asked me to do so. in a region of europe that has been ravaged by bitter conflict in recent decades, on the border between croatia, bosnia and herzegovina and serbia, this flood was not of borders but of immense solidarity between the people of all three countries. i have been able to get a picture of the great solidarity of the croatian people with the people of other countries in croatia. i would like to expressly state here how deeply not only i, but many others who were able to observe this were impressed. i think it is our responsibility now to ensure that those affected are not forgotten and that we ensure that the eu provides whatever help it can to the people in this region.
i have to inform you of the deadlines for tabling amendments to the draft budget for the financial year 2015. the deadline for tabling amendments by committees and by members wishing to table amendments under the rule of at least 40 members is 12 noon on thursday 4 september 2014. so, groups or individual members, at least 40, on thursday 4 september 2014 at 12 noon. the deadline for the groups is 12 noon on thursday 11 september 2014.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 10 july 2014 in accordance with rule 149 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: monday: no changes. the european parliament has called for the commission to be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation in the middle east.
who wants to speak for the motion?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this is a very important issue. we agree that these chemical weapons must be destroyed. but the question of the quality of the process, the question of the environmental impact too - to discuss this again here, my group supports this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i have a point on the agenda, and it also concerns the item for tomorrow. i am aware that the deadline for tabling amendments to the agenda has expired. but i want to make a very brief and basic point. we shall be discussing tomorrow the most important person in the european union for the next five years. it is about the presidency of the european commission. it's just the most important job there is to be given. we have a debate scheduled for 90 minutes. the debate is as long as the debate on 25 february on the normalization of the accounts of railway undertakings. i think that the group chairmen have not done justice to the importance of this position, which will be discussed tomorrow, in their draft agenda. if we want to take the citizens seriously, the hearing cannot be just 90 minutes. i have a very brief suggestion on how we can arrange this. (the president cut the speaker off)
this is not a point of order, but a point of order which you are making. i can't let him go on like this. wednesday: the gue group has requested a resolution on the debate on the escalation of violence between israel and palestine.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to ask, on behalf of my group, that on wednesday afternoon we not only hold a debate with the high representative on the situation in israel and palestine, but also adopt a resolution to that effect. the situation has worsened over the weekend, and there is a risk of further escalation. we shall not meet again as a parliament until after the summer recess. i think it is urgent that we speak out here, not just internally with the high representative, but also send a clear signal that everything must be done to prevent this escalation. there are already over 170 dead, there are thousands of rockets fired at israel, thousands of palestinians have to leave the northern part of gaza, are threatened. and from our perspective, there is a threat of a ground offensive. this must be discussed here and must be accompanied by a clear position from our parliament.
the motion for a resolution is for a debate with a resolution. (parliament adopted the resolution) (the agenda is therefore adopted.)
the next item on the agenda is the one-minute statement on important political questions (rule 163).
i have to say, madam president, it is very regrettable that mr schulz, the president, was unable to accept my request for a change of the agenda and had to interrupt it because it was not a request for a change of the agenda but a request for a change of the rules of procedure. that's too bad. i would like to say something about jean-claude juncker: we are electing him as president of the european commission tomorrow. in any case, there has been a great deal of drama in germany about the so-called top candidate. the citizens of the eu are supposed to believe that by electing the president of the european commission, the eu and the european commission in particular are somehow democratic. some 15% of germans know the name of mr juncker on demand. you know his name, not his program, but his name. in the end, mr juncker is responsible for all the laws that are passed here. because the european commission is the only one who initiates legislation here. it's not the parliament. all the laws that are passed here come from the european commission. ladies and gentlemen, the fundamental flaw of the eu is the unchecked power of the european commission.
thank you for the heads-up. we'll check the matter and let you know.
the next item is the statement by the candidate for president of the commission. the agenda calls for this debate to begin immediately. in this debate, ladies and gentlemen, there is no catch-the-eye procedure, and i will not accept any blue cards. ladies and gentlemen, at its meeting to nominate a candidate for the office of president of the commission, the council, in a contested vote, which was the first time that the council had done so, and with the active assistance of the european parliament - one might say with a little help from the european parliament - nominated mr jean-claude juncker as that candidate. mr juncker, i welcome you to the european parliament. you will now have the opportunity to make your speech, your inaugural speech, your recruitment speech before parliament. i welcome you to the european parliament, where you are not a newcomer but have already been in many different capacities. i would like to begin by congratulating you on your nomination by the council and give you the floor.
president. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 25 may the citizens of europe spoke to us. they sent us strong messages, though sometimes contradictory. we must respond to them now and in the years to come. to meet their expectations, their anxieties, their hopes with a dream, because in europe there is a place for dreams. it is here in the european parliament, the seat of european democracy, that i wish to lay out the general guidelines for the work and action of the next commission. i am speaking in general terms. the brief guidelines i have written to you in all official languages, because all languages have the same dignity. i would like to thank the translators who spent the night working on a text i finished late last night. the detailed programme of the commission will be the one of the college of commissioners which you will have to legitimize by voting in the autumn. the parliament which has just begun its legislative term is a parliament which is different from its predecessors. you are the first parliament to really elect, in every sense of the word, the president of the commission. you will elect him in a new spirit. the day after the elections, you insisted on the need to take account of the results of universal suffrage. in doing so, you have given the true meaning, the true democratic and political meaning, to article 17 (7) of the lisbon treaty. without your insistence and advocacy, this article would have remained dead letter forever. you have defended the democratic principle and you were right to do so. a parliament which enforces the observance of the democratic principle is doing a noble job and does not deserve any unjustified and harsh criticism or ill-intentioned trials. i want to pay tribute to the other front-runners who have added a great deal of vivacity, another democratic debate. if the political family of one of them had won the vote, i would have been the first to ask this house to give him the mandate to form the next commission. parliament and the commission are two community institutions par excellence. it is therefore only natural that the president of parliament and the president of the commission, on the one hand, and parliament and the commission, on the other, should have a privileged working and design relationship. we will be community actors, not against the european council or the council of ministers; europe is not being built against states and nations, which are not a temporary invention of history but are established in time. we, parliament and the commission, will act in the public interest and i would like us to do so together. the european council proposes the president of the commission. that doesn't make him his secretary. the commission is not a technical committee of brilliant senior officials working for another institution. the commission will be political. i want it to be more political. it's going to be very political. the composition of the european council must reflect the plurality of ideas that are being put forward, and i would like the european council to follow the same principle when it organizes its internal architecture. the president of the commission is elected by your assembly, but that does not make him a receiver of orders. i will not be the european parliament's aide-de-camp. but do not doubt for a moment that i am prepared to remove a commissioner whose confidence you have lost, and that i am prepared to follow up your speeches and calls for this with a legislative proposal in principle. so the right to ask questions will not be infringed. it'll stay the way it is. i will ask the commissioners to attend more often to the highlights of the important trilogues and i would like the council to do the same. i'll make sure the lobby register is made public and mandatory. i would like the europeans to know who has come to see who, who has spoken to whom, and i would like the other institutions to follow suit. (applause) i will see to it that the rules of procedure for the various authorizations of gmos are reviewed. i would not like the commission to be able to take a decision when a majority of member states would not have encouraged it to do so. in general, ladies and gentlemen, let us give up ideological debates which have no other aim than to fuel divisions. let's replace them with virtuous debates that are based on strong convictions and far-reaching ambitions. let us choose pragmatism as our method. let us concentrate on concrete achievements that have a positive impact on all europeans. let us not tire those who observe us with interinstitutional debates which take us away from the essential, that is, the european citizen. and i say to governments: resist the temptation to criticize more often by going home to the decisions you made together in brussels. (applause) "if you have said yes in brussels, don't say no elsewhere. never, never again, after a meeting of the european council or the council, say that you have won a victory and the others have lost. in europe we win together and we lose together". (applause) i would like to thank europe has become illegible because we often turn its description into a caricature. let us not be nationalist. in europe, let's play as a team. let's apply the community method. yes, it's demanding, but it is effective. it's proven and it's more credible than intergovernmental drift. the community method must be restored. (applause) yes, mr president, i am now speaking in the language of the world's great leaders, that europe has an ingebüßt glaubwürdigkeit. the distance between the european union and its citizens is growing. the european union is very often in a state of uncertainty, and we are constantly in a state of obligation to explain europe better. europe, herr präsident, needs a broadly-based reform agenda. the status quo is not a complete palette. we must expand it. people are very often afraid of reform. they feel they are being threatened, they are being taken for a ride. but if there is no risk, there is a bigger risk. we must take risks to make europe more competitive. we as the european union have an international and global competitiveness. we are backslidden, because we are standing still. we must come again in vorsprung. competitiveness is often confused with a social construct. but competitiveness is not achieved without social work. competitiveness is achieved by having a broadly based concept at hand. the european union must be a standard for people, a standard for investors. dazu also includes the principle that man must sometimes remember the necessity that the economy should serve man and not the other way around. the economy has the people to serve. (beifall) it is clear that the binnenmarktregeln have no higher value than the sozialminimregeln. the internal market is not always going to be there, but the social sector must retain its place in europe. (beifall) i am a keen follower of the social market economy. "wohlstand für alle", said ludwig erhard, "is not only a welfare for some women". the welfare of all must be the maxim of all economic and social policy. it is often said that in the face of the crisis the social market economy would have failed. no, ladies and gentlemen, not the social market economy has failed! the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet known whether the commission will be able to take a decision on the matter. the social market economy has failed. (beifall) the social market economy only works if there is social dialogue. the social dialogue has in the past been a crisis. it must be revived both nationally and also and above all at european level. i want to be a president of the social dialogues. (beifall) standortsicherung braucht wachstum, nicht schuldenfinanzierte konjunkturprogramm, die zu strohfeuer führen, die auf dauer keine arbeitsmarktwirkung zeitigen. (beifall) the fact that the german labour market is not in a state of recession is not to be taken as an indication that the german labour market is not in a state of recession. what we need is a sustainable growth for jahrzehnte. we need a demanding package of employment, growth, investment and competitiveness. why do we need that? we must lead many people in europe back to europe, back to the middle of life. the growth package, the competitiveness package, the investment programme have only one aim: to bring people back into the centre of society. it is currently established within the borders of the european union and 29 states. this is the state where they live, but have no work. the first is the right to work. the commission has not yet adopted a position on the proposal for a regulation on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. i would like to see this 29th member state become a normal member state again. therefore i propose a challenging investment programme. i would like to see this ambitious growth, investment, competitiveness and employment package completed by february 2015. i would like to see us mobilise €300 billion in public and above all private investment over the next three years. that is what we are doing, and i would be grateful if parliament would support me in this way. we can do this by making a green use of the existing structural funds and by making a green use of the instruments available and being developed by the european investment bank. we need investments in infrastructure projects, in coordinated investments, in broadband, in energy networks, in transport infrastructure in industrial centres. we need a reindustrialisation of europe. we also need investment in the industrial sector. we need investments in research, development and renewable energy. renewable energies are not the field of play of the ecological good men. renewable energies and their development are the prerequisite for europe of tomorrow to have truly durable, sustainable and direct comparative advantages with other players in the world. (beifall) a stronger europe for investment is a europe for more prosperity, it is a europe for more jobs. the investment is the best unemployment association. we must also develop the jugendgarantie. i would like to see the age limit gradually increased from 25 to 30 years. investments are only then oriented to the structure, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises, when we come to bureaucracy. the average size of the enterprises is not a large capitalist enterprise. the mittelständler are working hard. the mittelstanders are creating jobs. we must do more for the middle class, especially by resolutely abolishing bureaucratic excesses. we must do this by applying the principles of subsidiarity. since the maastricht treaty we have been talking about the correct application of the subsidiarity principles. we are only a few weeks old. our speeches are longer than the efforts we are making to ensure that the european commission and the european union, instead of looking at all the details, the corners and corners of the human heart, look at the really big european problems. not every problem that exists in europe can become a problem of the european union. we should take care of something big! (beifall) all dies, herr präsident, must of course be guided by the stabilitätspakt-konform in die wege. we will not change the stability and growth pact in its fundamentals. this has been stated by the european council. i'm sticking to this standard for the next few years. stability was guaranteed by the introduction of the common currency. stability is not just a temporary requirement, but a permanent requirement. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome. i will not break it! (beifall) after the european council has rightly stated that we need to bring the flexibility margin, which contains the 2005 and 2011 reformed stability pact, also into line with the growth dimension of the stability and growth pact. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the common transport policy. i was president of the euro-group and i am no longer president. the fact that the event is not subject to an entertainment tax is not really relevant. if i give up, i will be happy, but if i give up, i will be unhappy. but we have during the euro crisis die keine euro crisis war, sondern eine schuldenkrise ein brennendes flugzeug im flug repare musten. we have to repair the burning planes in flight. the war is not simple, it does not meet all the requirements of high statecraft, it does not meet the requirements of sophisticated political aesthetics. but we have managed to keep the eurozone as a whole. a little over a year ago, speculators from all over the world and many laughed at the bet that the eurozone itself would collapse. she is not! it was concluded on many financial markets that greece would be leaving the eurozone. i have done everything and i am proud that greece, this brave people, this great nation, is still a member of the european economic and monetary union. (starker beifall) but, herr präsident, we have also made mistakes. a burning plane in flight is not easy to repair. it burns itself off from time to time. i would like in the future, when there is still an adaptation programme to be implemented, to see that a very thorough social impact assessment study is carried out. i would like to know how the adaptation programme in the lives of people is working. there will be no adjustment programme in the future without a social impact analysis. (beifall) and i would like to see us, every time we have an adjustment programme in the house, have a plan b ready, a plan b that we can then rely on when the macroeconomic forecasts are not right. if there is less growth in a country, as the basis of an adjustment programme, then the adjustment programme must also be adapted. therefore, i am prepared to put in place a plan b in all these cases. (zwischenruf) it does not seem to convince you? i would have liked to have thought again about the troika's instrument. the parliament has in relevant reports stated that the troika, as it now functions, lacks democratic substance. it lacks a democratic substance and a parliamentary dimension. we must re-establish the troika, make it more democratic, parliamentary and political. we will die! (beifall) we cannot spend money that we do not have. we have to replace deficits and debt with ideas. these ideas are there. we must better use the opportunities offered by digital technology, which knows no borders. we must break down national silos of telecommunication regulations, of copyright and of data protection. we have to break down national silos as far as the management of radio waves is concerned, and so on. we must knock down these barriers, these hurdles to growth. roaming charges in europe have to disappear, and they will disappear. if we are successful in implementing a real digital single market, we can generate eur 250 billion of additional growth in europe, and we will do it. we need as was so often said (mainly during the ukraine crisis) a resilient energy union with a forward-looking climate-change policy. we have to reorganise europe's energy policy into a new european energy union. we need to pool resources, combine infrastructures and unite our negotiating power vis-à-vis third countries. we need to diversify our energy sources and reduce the high energy dependency of several of our member states. i think that the european energy union will become the world number one in renewables and will contribute to significantly-enhanced energy efficiency beyond the 2020 objective, notably when it comes to buildings. a binding 30% target for energy efficiency by 2030 is, to me, the minimum if we want to be credible and forward-looking. we cannot pretend to be the leader as far as climate change policy is concerned if we do not become more efficient when it comes to energy efficiency. (applause) i would like to thank you. the internal market has to be completed. if we are successful in this, we will add another eur 200 billion of added value to the european economy. we have to do it. we have to complement the new european rules for banks with a capital markets union. to improve the financing of our economy, we should further develop and integrate capital markets. this would cut the cost of raising capital, mainly for small and medium-sized enterprises. free movement of workers has always been one of the key pillars of the internal market. i will defend that principle. free movement is an opportunity, not a threat. the rules will not be changed. it will be up to national authorities to fight against abuse of fraudulent claims. i will initiate a targeted review of the posting of workers directive and its implementation. we have to fight social dumping, and we will do it. i will combat tax evasion and tax fraud. i am in favour of the adoption at eu level of the common consolidated corporate tax based on the financial transaction tax. we have to fight against money laundering, and we will do it. (applause) as regards economic and monetary union, mr president, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that the crisis is not over. the crisis is not over. the crisis is not over as long as there are twenty-five thousand men and women who are unemployed. the crisis is over when full employment has been restored. to achieve this we must coordinate our economic policies more closely. we need to set up an economic government, an economic governance, a kind of economic government. and we will. we must remain demanding in the implementation of the necessary structural reforms which, in the medium term, will contribute to the growth of the european economy. if the member states of the economic and monetary union make special efforts, we will have to think about financial incentives to accompany this process. in this context we will have to consider the creation of a budgetary capacity of our own for the euro area. we must stop being ridiculous and allow ourselves to be represented, as one of the strongest currencies, by so many representatives who very often contradict each other. i would like to see economic and monetary union and the euro represented by one chair, one seat and one vote in the bretton woods institutions. (applause) as i am in bretton woods, which is in the middle of the united states, i would like to say a few words about the free trade agreement with the united states. i am in favour of concluding this agreement. i believe that the two largest economic areas and the two largest democracies on the planet are joining forces in the interests of both americans and europeans. that said, the deal will not be made at any price. we can't give up our standards of health. we can't give up our social norms. we cannot give up our data protection requirements. i would not like data protection to be part of the negotiation with our american friends. and i would not like us to set up secret parallel courts. we are lawful spaces, and in the united states as in europe, we apply the law and ensure that these negotiations are surrounded by maximum transparency. i say to you: 'if we do not publish the relevant documents, i am not talking about the documents relating to the negotiating strategy, this agreement will fail. it will fail our public opinion, it will fail this parliament and it will fail our national parliaments if there is ever to be a mixed agreement. so let's be more transparent because we have nothing to hide. let's not give the impression that we have to hide anything. let's not hide anything, let's make the relevant documents transparent. (applause) the european union is a union of values. we are credible to the rest of the world if we are demanding to ourselves, in terms of core values. i will appoint a commissioner who will be responsible for the application of the charter of fundamental rights. i would like the european union to join the council of europe's european convention on human rights as soon as possible. the anti-discrimination directive will remain on the table and i will try to persuade the council to adopt it as soon as possible, at least in its broad outline. immigration and migration, legal immigration and illegal immigration are topics that occupy our fellow citizens almost on a daily basis. we need a common asylum policy and i will propose a common asylum policy. (applause) we need to think about the legal immigration that europe will desperately need in the next five years. let's do as well as the united states, as canada and australia. we can do what they've always done. (protests) i thought there would be moments of excitement at that part of my speech and i had just seen... let's protect our external borders you'll like it more , let's fight the criminal gangs who make money from the misery of others. let us help those who come to us before they board the ship to cross the mediterranean and let us ensure that there is greater solidarity between the north and the south of europe. illegal immigration, the refugee problem, is not the problem of malta, cyprus, italy or greece, it is the problem of europe as a whole. (applause) mr president, i do not want to waste any time on foreign policy. we urgently need a common foreign and security policy. i would be right and i will see to it that the foreign ministers of the european union do not stop the foreign ministers from acting. a common foreign policy also requires a uniform external representation. (beifall) the außenbeauftragte, also known as the außenbeauftragte, is assisted by other commissioners responsible for the sector. in the field of defence, it is not about establishing the european union as a counter-project to nato. both must work together and breathe together. but in the defence sector we need to strengthen cooperation, as the lisbon treaty says and also provides. and we need especially in sachen beschaffungswesen mehr zusammenarbeit, instead that we gegeneinander das beschaffen, was we alle gemeinsam brauchen. there will be no new member of the european union in the next five years. from today's point of view it is unthinkable that one of the candidate countries, with which we are negotiating, will be able to fulfil the entry criteria in full and in detail until the year 2019. but the negotiations are still going on. and other european nations, other european countries, need a credible, honest common european perspective. this applies especially to the countries of the western balkans, because this tragic region of europe needs a european perspective. otherwise the old demons will be awakened. (beifall) i would like to speak to you, mr president, about the necessary industrial policy that we must put in place in europe to increase the relative share of industry in european gdp to a value of 20%. i should like to speak more specifically about ukraine, and i would like to greet the people of ukraine today and tell them that we believe that this people is european and that it has its place in europe. (applause) i would like to thank i would have liked to explain in detail why i think it is necessary for all the countries of the european union to introduce minimum social wages and minimum integration incomes or guaranteed minimum incomes. we will do so. i would have liked to say that i am convinced that services of general interest and public services must be safeguarded and cannot be at the mercy of the whims of the times. let us defend public service in europe. finally, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to speak to you about africa, this africa which is so often unhappy and so often forgotten, but which is rich in resources and, above all, rich in human resources. let us not forget africa and let us put an end to this scandal, this tragedy, this daily drama, that every six seconds a man dies of hunger and that we lose twenty-five thousand children a day because of hunger. as long as 25 000 children die of hunger every day, europe is not finished. europe has the responsibility to change this situation. (applause) yes, mr president, we must make a fresh start, we must listen to those who spoke to us on 25 may. but this is not the time for revolution, and it is not the time for counter-revolution either. if we want europeans to fall in love with their europe again, let us tell them that we are proud of europe. we can tell them that we are proud of the many things we have achieved over the past decades. it is often said that the question of war and peace no longer arises. the unvirtuous dialogue between war and peace is still a european issue. we have just discovered on the periphery of the european union that peace is not a permanent visitor to the european continent. let us be proud of the generation of our fathers and mothers, of the generation of our grandfathers and grandfathers who, after returning from the battlefields and concentration camps, made that eternal postwar prayer "never again war", a political program that to this day has beneficial effects. (applause) i would like to thank we owe our parents. (applause from the left) we should be proud that we were able, in the 1990s, to achieve enlargement, to reconcile european history and geography and to put an end to that fatal post-war decree which wanted europe to be divided into two parts forever. we have united, without arms, but with conviction, the geography and history of europe. i would also like to pay tribute to those in central and eastern europe who decided to take history into their own hands, to no longer be subject to history but to make history themselves. let us stop talking about old and new member states. there are member states, neither new nor old. (applause) and let us be proud of having created the single currency. the single currency does not divide europe. the single currency protects europe. (protests then overwhelmed by applause) mr president, i was finance minister in my country for 20 years. every six months i had to go to brussels to attend currency realignments. every six months i experienced "live and in colour" how dangerous the monetary disorder was for the european economy. i have experienced many times the loss of dignity of a state which, because it was not able to remain competitive, had to devalue. i have seen with bitterness the terrible scenes where those who had to increase the external value of their currency did not want to do so because they were losing markets, and those who had to devalue did not dare to do so because they feared a massive incursion, a disorderly return of inflation. if during the events in ukraine, if during the economic and financial crisis that hit us and made europe the epicenter of a global battle, we were still in the european monetary system, europe today would be in a monetary war. france against germany. germany against italy. italy against portugal and spain. all against all. the euro, its discipline and ambition, have given us a monetary order that protects us. the euro is protecting europe. (exclamations: what about greece? mr president, greece did not want to leave the monetary area and we did not want greece to leave the monetary area. (vifs applause) interjection from the floor: and spain? what about britain? i am defending the single currency because the single currency is protecting europe, its economy and its citizens. (applause) mr president, if we had not done what we have done over the past decades, if we had not made europe a continent of peace, if we had not reconciled european history and geography, if we had not set up the single currency and if we had not built the largest single market in the world in europe, where would we be today? (exclamation) we would be ungrateful, unarmed people. we'd be weakened by it. we would be without arms today and europe, thanks to the work and convictions of our predecessors, is a continent which ensures that those who inhabit it can live in peace and relative well-being. (the president cut the speaker off) (applause from the left) mr president, i do not want a europe that is on the stage of history. i do not want a europe that watches others do, act and move forward. i would like a europe that plays in the centre of the field, a europe that plays forward, a europe that wins, a europe that protects, that exists, a europe that is a model for others. to do this, let us be inspired by the principles and convictions that the great europeans who were there when we were nowhere were left with us. i would like to pay tribute to jacques delors, the great president of the commission. (applause) it's not delors who wants it, but delors is my friend and my master and his work will inspire me every day. i want to pay tribute here to françois mitterrand, who said that nationalisms lead to war. françois mitterrand was right about the french. (loud applause and protests) i also want to pay tribute to helmut kohl, who was the greatest european i have ever had the good fortune to know in my lifetime. (laughter) (applause) let's do what they do. they were patient. they had courage. they had determination. let us have the same courage, the same determination, the same patience. let us have the patience, the courage, the determination that long journeys and great ambitions demand. we can do great things together, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for europe, for its citizens, for the world.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the european union is a global community of citizens. today is a good day for europe. the european institutions have shown in recent weeks that we are fully capable of action. the citizens of europe have voted in the european elections for the future of europe, for more democracy, for reforms, for growth. in the european parliament, despite the social consequences of the great economic and financial crisis, we are building on a majority of constructive forces that want to shape europe's future. we have also made europe a great deal more democratic with this election. it's a historic day. for the first time, voters were able to directly decide on the head of the european commission. i'm sure not everyone has done this, but it's an important first step. the concept of the top candidates can be liked or criticized. but there is one thing that democrats should agree on: it is better to tell voters before the election where you want to go, with what staff you want to do it, than to say it after the election. (applause from the centre) we have come a little closer to this principle. that's a good thing, and no one's going to be able to undo that. today is a good day for europe, and as the group chairman i can of course say that it is a good day for my group and for my party. there is a candidate of the european people's party on the ballot today. may i remind you: all the programme countries - greece, spain, portugal and ireland - are governed by the european people's party. there were cuts in wages, cuts in pensions, cuts in social benefits, increases in taxes. the epp had to explain many unpleasant decisions to the citizens. we have asked a lot of people. on the other hand, epp governments - for example in finland, luxembourg or germany - have had to explain to the people the need for solidarity, the need for life-saving ambulances. in the campaign, the difficult decisions of recent years have been attacked by many. we the european people's party and jean-claude juncker have defended these decisions and have made people aware of their necessity. it was not easy, and yet the european people's party is once again the strongest group in the european parliament. jean-claude juncker has won the election. he's the right man at the right time. (applause from the centre) jean-claude juncker is the candidate of the european people's party, yes, but he is today seeking the approval of the entire european parliament. we know that the principle of democracy is compromise. the ideas of the other constructive forces in the european parliament must also be heard. jean-claude juncker was elected on his epp programme, but jean-claude juncker stands for consensus in this european parliament. the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. there was a lot of talk about reform, change, upheaval. the tasks have been clearly defined. the epp is centred on four points: first, we need growth. europe must become competitive. we need to re-industrialize our continent. secondly, we must continue on the path towards a union of stability. debt does not create a future, debt destroys a future. thirdly, we need more respect for the national level, especially for our colleagues in the national parliaments. fourthly, after years of crisis, europe must look outwards again, whether in terms of refugee policy or in terms of partnership with our friends in ukraine. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. but i do not want to spend my time discussing these matters in detail. we have plenty of opportunity to do that in the next five years. i would like to take this opportunity today to express two central ideas about culture, about how we deal with our europe. i would like to begin by taking up a thought expressed by jean-claude juncker and emphasizing it again: we talk about change and we must be aware that many people on our continent see change and reform as more of a threat than an opportunity, more of a fear when we talk about change. that is why it is important to get people on this path of transformation of our continent. and one thing that's important to me is that we have to be aware that we're living in a time today where a lot of fundamental changes are happening at the same time. a hundred years ago, industrialization was a defining process, a great change that created winners and losers in society, that changed the world at that time. today we live in a time of fundamental change in a variety that has never been seen before. think of the demographics. today, 15% of europeans are over 65. in 2050, it will not be 15 percent, but 25 percent. more pensioners, less innovation, that is going to change our continent. think about globalization. wealth is being redistributed around the world at a breathtaking rate. globalisation is making the countries of europe smaller. in 2040 - 26 years from now - it is likely that no european state will be able to take a seat at the g7 summit, according to economic data. that says it all. think about the ecology, think about the climate change. think about the question of digitization, how we keep in touch with friends, how we shop. everything is changing with digitization. we see the benefits, but let's be honest: have we got the downsides of this development under control? a whole host of fundamental changes are happening at the same time. i think it's important that we explain this to people, that we tell people this, because the prerequisite is that there is openness to change, to reform. reforms are necessary if we are to preserve the european way of life, if we are to uphold our values, if we are to safeguard the extraordinary nature of europe for future generations. and we must also be clear about this: those who cling to existing structures, those who are not prepared for change, will lose. this is also evident from a look at our europe today. where courageous politicians have carried out reforms, people are better off, there is a future. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in this area. since the collapse of totalitarian communism, much has changed in the country. you, ladies and gentlemen from these countries, know better than we do from the west and the south of europe that stagnation and retrenchment mean a step backwards. that is why i am advocating this understanding: clinging means going backwards, openness to reform, to change means the future. let us encourage people, let us make people want to do something new! i am not going to go into detail. i would like to add a second key point: reforms, objectivity. europe must be seen in a pragmatic way. that is what is being demanded in the country at the moment. but it has also made europe more technical. people perceive a cold apparatus of europe. i don't want to be just pragmatic, to be honest. i would like to have ideas for europe again in the years to come. i would like to be able to rejoice in our europe again in the years to come. i want to shape europe's future. what do i mean? i read a lot about the european idea in my youth, when i first became interested in politics, from the founding fathers of europe. in the ruins of the second world war, there were people who said: i want to create a continent that creates peace. i want a continent that will shake hands with the arch-enemy. i want a continent that defeats nationalism and totalitarianism, that goes back to its historical roots. or i want a continent without border controls, a common market, a living together in diversity on the rubble of the second world war. a whole generation of politicians, left and right, dreamed of the unthinkable. now, you might say, "what kind of illusionists were they then?" but they have made the impossible possible, they have won. what about today? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. all of this is important. but is that enough? europe has so much to offer! the united kingdom, for example, is the mother country of parliamentary democracy. it gave us europeans this idea. today, all of europe is proud of its parliamentary tradition. or france: yesterday was national day with the idea of freedom, equality, fraternity, which developed human rights, especially the equality of men and women. developed in france, given to the entire continent. today we europeans are proud of the charter of fundamental rights that defines us. in germany, the reformation, which enforced the separation of state and religion. today, it is a european acquis. greece with its philosophy, rome has given us the right. without it, european culture would be unthinkable. and the great seafaring nations, portugal and spain, discovered the world. each country has its own historical experience. and we've done a lot of work together in europe. today, these achievements are common european assets. we europeans have achieved this, each one contributing and each one depending on the other. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. i always imagine when the great powers of the world meet at the g20 summit and talk about global trade, for example, who raises their hand and says, "yes, trade". but we must also prohibit child labour, for example. do the indians do that? does brazil? no, we europeans have to do it. who raises their hand when the question is in the room, that we fight climate change? is this the u.s. doing this, is this china doing this? no, we europeans have to do it. and who is it at these big summits that reminds the world that conflicts must first be resolved peacefully? is this the russians doing this, is this the u.s. doing this? no, we europeans have to bring it in. this is my wish for the young generation of today: a europe that is proud of its great achievements in intellectual history, a europe that stops hating itself and is aware of its responsibility in the world, a europe that embodies this self-confidence and carries outwards the commonalities. if we are to live ideas today, we should make people want to be europeans! rooted in the region where you grew up, proud of your own nation and aware that we europeans have something to contribute to the development of the world. europe, do not forget your task, this world needs the european contribution! the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european social fund. europe with its landscapes: wales, tuscany, the masures. europe with its proud cities: rome, athens, budapest. europe with its culture: the whole world visits our museums, our operas are performed all over the world, and the european cultural scene today is rich and full as nowhere else. europe is so rich, so diverse, so alive. i feel very comfortable as a bavarian, as a german european on this continent. i like being european. and i think it's important to bring the emotional side to our citizens as well. let us get to work, ladies and gentlemen, and give jean-claude juncker a strong mandate to start today so that he can do his job! i and we in the epp want to work with him to reduce the problems and worries of the people of europe, to make europe do its job and do it simply and simply. and i want us to be able to have ideas again, beyond the pragmatic everyday life, as the founding generation did. ideas, a vision of the future of a united europe in diversity, proud of its origins, proud of its nation, but also grateful to be european. (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i don't like to disagree. he's kind of my type. but the general euphoria that we are facing today a historic day, i would like to at least add a few drops to the wine, because i simply do not believe it. i think it was a step towards saying: yes, the european elections should also be used to influence who will lead the european commission in the future. but i say no, if that is already being suggested as a great victory for democracy. we're at the beginning. and above all, we are at the beginning because this small first step has not been taken enough in the past weeks and months to suggest in any credible way that there is a democratic development here in the european union. it is said that a victory has been won, and at the same time democracy is reduced to a division of posts, to a power structure between institutions, to the supremacy of the grand coalition. but in my view, this is the beginning of the collapse of the façade democracy that habermas spoke of, not the collapse of the façade. what is needed is to really build democracy from below and develop it. we must also look at the election results. it's not like the conservatives won the election. more than three and a half times as many people in the european union have not chosen the conservatives - and i'm really only talking about those who either didn't vote or who think that, because of the evolution of the european union in recent years and the impact that that has had on their own lives, they are choosing not to want to promote any future of the european union, but to say: back to the national answer, back to the national question, which in my view is very dangerous and hinders democracy. we all - and this is the truth - have lost this election, all those who believe and want the european union to become a union of democracy, social justice and solidarity, that the european union is a real force for peace, that the european union plays a different role in foreign policy, that what was originally formulated as an ideal, as a vision, is actually living, that people do not identify with it and move further away. but what happened here after may 25 is the exact opposite. that's why i'm warning you against too much euphoria. we have a lot to do as democrats to ensure that the european union actually has a vision for the future of the people, of all people. the message that was conveyed to the voters in the weeks, months and years before, including during the election campaign, was: there is no alternative to the policy of market radicalism, rigid cuts in public budgets, the destruction of the social models that have developed in the eu, the privatisation of public services, liberalisation, deregulation of social systems and also of environmental standards, subordination to the interests of the european and globally organised economy and the interests of the international financial markets. this is a revival of the former british prime minister's famous mantra, "there is no alternative". but the number of people who have been guided by other ideas - those very people have been pushed to the brink, and more and more of them have also withdrawn - that is the great challenge we are facing and you too, mr juncker, are facing, and we think that the election result should be used intensively. you should use the question to ask what you stand for in the european commission's policy. the european union is not a 'continuation' of the past, but it is clearly the picture that is being conveyed to us now. we expect you to give us clear answers to the european commission's changing role in the troika. we are not satisfied with your saying that the troika should become a democratic instrument. what do you mean, "i'm not"? it cannot be just the involvement of parliaments. it is not possible for the troika to continue to pursue a policy of interfering with the constitutional reality of the so-called programme states. this has nothing to do with democracy! if people destroy the realities of life, that has nothing to do with democracy! so how do you intend to meet that responsibility? what should come instead? it is not enough to simply say: "the international monetary fund must go". what answers do you have - and therefore also with regard to the commission's role in the troika - to the debt problem, to a debt audit, to the assessment of debt, to debt cuts? how do you want to handle this? you have - and i am very frank with you - also spoken a lot about putting much more emphasis on social priorities. we'd love to hear that, yeah. but we've heard that too many times in the last few years, we've heard it over and over again. we want to know specifically how you're going to do that. you are talking about the minimum wage in the member states. we think that's important. but is this a minimum wage that is poverty-friendly? is it about minimum standards, minimum social standards that are poverty-friendly, that prevent poverty? that will be the decisive point. before i conclude, perhaps i should make one more remark: we have had you as a guest in our group. you've either answered questions or you haven't answered questions. but, as has been repeatedly emphasized, we expect you, as head of the commission, to take a much more decisive stance on the real problems facing the european union. i am thinking in particular of the situation in cyprus. who, if not you, should start talking to turkey? i expect the same for the problems of ukraine and russia. you talked about not allowing russia to bash you, and we'll support you. we need a europe that includes all the countries. we don't need any more divisions. mr juncker, we will not vote for you as a group. you're not getting our vote today. but we will measure what you do on a daily basis, and where you advocate for better living conditions for people, we will support you.
in writing. the commission's future work programme is initially encouraged by the fact that the principle of equal pay for equal work at the same place should be accompanied by the freedom of movement for workers. but we must go a step further: wages and working conditions must be based on the highest social standards. the implementation of the posting of workers directive, as called for by the future president of the commission, is not enough. the existing directive promotes social and wage dumping throughout europe, as anyone who has studied it a little more closely knows. if you are now saying that social dumping has no place in europe, then in the context of the revision of the posting of workers directive it must be made clear that we need effective prevention of wage dumping, effective controls and sanctions against letterbox companies, against all forms of social fraud and against the abusive use of temporary agency work and pseudo-employment. we want equality for all workers, regardless of their origin or form of employment, and we want it at a high level. we are asking for a clear commitment from the future commission. but many other forms of social dumping, such as relocation of companies, alleged practices and forms of pseudo-independence, must also be combated by the new commission.
in writing. i object to the fact that the debate on the statement by the candidate for president of the commission was not allowed to be a general debate in the 'catch-the-eye' procedure. this approach is undemocratic and bears the hallmarks of a neo-absolutism of the eu bureaucracy that is far removed from the citizen. such a europe may be the europe you want, mr juncker, but it is not the europe of the peoples and citizens. i can well understand why the bureau is not interested in an open debate: mr juncker's ideas on europe as a country of immigration, the transatlantic trade and investment partnership and nato should not be discussed at length. the members of this house have thus been degraded to 'voting animals' without any say. but sitting still, keeping quiet and voting - that cannot be the work of a member of parliament. mr juncker, i therefore object to the guidelines for the future of europe which you sent last night. i do not want a federal europe with the single currency, the euro, i do not want a free trade agreement with the usa, i do not want more and more centralisation and loss of sovereignty! i do not want my country, germany, and the rest of europe to become a continent of forced mass immigration, which can only lead our continent to ruin. i assure you, mr juncker, that in the interests of the peoples of europe and their future, i have not elected you today.
the next item is the election of the president of the commission. (the voting is opened.) first of all, we have to draw the voters who will take their seats at the polls from a to b to w to z. first of all, these meters must be triggered. i have to ask if all the members present in the chamber have received a ballot. there are colleagues in the chamber who have not received a ballot paper. did everyone get their ballot? if not, i will ask the envoys to send one where members indicate that they do not have a ballot paper. i'm going to start drawing the counters. if i don't hear anything else, i'm going to assume that you'll accept it. (the president drew the following names from a drawing of lots.) the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment,
the president of the european parliament, mr sosa wagner, mr schaldemose, mrs griesbeck, mr ehler, mr dodds, mr goffreda, mr bettini, mr gierek, mr vajgl, mr gierek, mr ivo vajgl, mr sosa wagner, mr schaldemose, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr schaldemose, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, dodds, dodds, dodds
ladies and gentlemen, the announcement of the results of the elections today marks the provisional end of a process which has no doubt been described by all of you, or at least by most of you, as a historic process. the european parliament has paid the greatest attention to this electoral process, both in the last and in this parliamentary term. i believe that the result i am now announcing has achieved a fundamental change of direction in the structures of the european union. the result of this process is the next president of the european commission, who will come into office with a parliamentary backing unlike any other. the number of votes cast: 729 the vote was taken at the end of the debate. the eu treaty requires the president of the european commission to obtain a qualified majority, i.e. a majority of the members of parliament, in voting on his nomination. that number is 376. the commission has also proposed that the council should be consulted on the draft budget. (parliament adopted the resolution) the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the european parliament has thus elected the candidate for president of the european commission proposed by the european council. i shall inform the council according to rule 117 (3) of the rules of procedure and ask the council and the president-elect of the commission to appoint by common accord the candidates for the various posts of member of the commission. i will record your election, ladies and gentlemen, in a legal act which i must sign and i will hand the result of that election to you, mr juncker, provided you tell me now that you agree with it.
president-designate of the commission. - mr president, i have to go. it is not only a matter of courtesy that i gladly agree to the procedure you have proposed. but please send a copy to everyone.
mr papadakis, i take note of that. you know the rules that apply to non-attached members in this house. we'll consider your wishes. in the context of coordination of nonattached members, any group organised within the nonattached members shall have the floor. i'll take your wishes. we'll see what we can do. (the sitting was suspended at 1.55 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
member of the commission on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - madam president, the crisis in eastern ukraine has not abated; each day we continue to receive alarming reports about casualties. the activities of illegal armed separatist groups remain a source of great concern. militants still occupy buildings and border posts, keep dozens of people hostage, and threaten the territorial integrity and independence of ukraine, as well as the security of its citizens. innocent civilians, including women and children, are caught in the crossfire. we must do all we can to protect and support them. each civilian killed is one too many. the increase in the numbers of displaced people is also of concern. it underlines the importance of supporting the work of humanitarian organisations. it is essential to provide protection and emergency assistance to all of the ukrainian civilians who are in need of it – whoever and wherever they are. there are worrying reports regarding respect for human rights – not only in eastern ukraine, but also in crimea, which remains illegally annexed by russia. crimea is where the most dramatic changes in the situation of minorities and in the enjoyment of human rights have taken place. earlier this month, the leader of the elected crimean tatar assembly was refused entry to crimea. this is a clear violation of international law and the european convention of human rights. allow me to stress that we have not forgotten about crimea; it will always remain on the radar of our policy until international law is restored. the ukrainian military campaign in the eastern ukraine continues. it is every country’s right and obligation to uphold law and order on its territory and to defend its sovereignty and territorial integrity. in these extremely difficult circumstances, we encourage the ukrainian authorities to maintain a measured approach. this is not about fighting the popular movement in part of eastern ukraine at a time when the ukrainian authorities offer discussions about decentralisation and other democratic changes. it is about fighting highly trained and equipped paramilitary forces that have hardly any regard for the needs of the local population. this is exactly the reason why we need to put the protection and well-being of local civilians at the heart of our policy. diplomatic efforts towards peace in eastern ukraine must continue. there is an urgent need for all parties to agree on a genuine and sustainable cease-fire in order to create the necessary conditions for the implementation of president poroshenko’s peace plan. president putin supported the peace plan in principle; the federation council has revoked the authorisation to use military force on ukrainian soil. however, russia has not stopped the flow of weapons, equipment and militants across the border; nor has it used its influence over illegally armed groups in eastern ukraine to stop the violence and get them to lay down their arms. so it is now urgent that russia takes concrete steps in this direction. we welcome the diplomatic efforts launched in normandy on 6 june by ukraine, the russian federation, france and germany, and we hope that this process – as well as the joint berlin declaration of 2 july – will contribute to de-escalation and to a peaceful resolution of the crisis. diplomatic efforts will only be successful if all players show genuine commitment to the process. the european union welcomes the trilateral efforts of ukraine, russia and the osce, which could lead to de-escalation and a peaceful resolution, including an agreement on a cease-fire, the release of all hostages, border security, and the effective monitoring of border crossings by the osce. unfortunately, we are not there yet. tomorrow in brussels, the heads of state and government will again assess the situation on the ground against the conditions put forward by the last european council and, should it be required, adopt the necessary decisions. in parallel, the european union supports ukraine where it can. in march, the european commission proposed a support package of over eur 11 billion for the next couple of years. the commission has also decided to create a support group to ensure that the ukrainian authorities have all the assistance they need to implement reforms. last week, the european union also actively supports the osce special monitoring mission and stands ready to further assist the organisation in supporting a cease-fire and border monitoring. at the end of this month, we are also planning to launch a common security and defence policy mission to assist ukraine in the important areas of civilian security sector reform, police and the rule of law. 26 june 2014 was a historic day for ukraine and for the european union. after years of negotiations and hard work, the remaining provisions of the association agreement – with its deep and comprehensive free trade area – were signed. this achievement is a powerful symbol of the ukrainian people’s aspirations to get closer to the european union, and of the european union’s commitment towards ukraine. the agreement will help to drive reforms and boost growth by offering ukraine access to the world’s largest market. we now look forward to its swift ratification and subsequent provisional application, so that ukrainian citizens and businesses can benefit as soon as possible from the new opportunities that the agreement opens. needless to say in this house, the agreement is not meant to replace ukraine’s relations with any neighbour; ukraine can perfectly well have free trade agreements with russia and the european union at the same time. the european union has engaged with russia in order to dispel any possible misunderstandings in this regard. last friday, trilateral talks were held by commissioner de gucht with ukraine and russia at ministerial level on the effects on russia’s economy of the implementation of the association agreement. an agreement was reached to launch a consultation mechanism with a focus on regulations and standard procedures arising from the implementation of this agreement. the purpose is to reduce unnecessary tensions by filtering out misunderstandings and by focusing discussions on possible solutions for any remaining concrete issues. experts will produce a preliminary report no later than 1 september 2014, and a new ministerial meeting will take place in that month. russia’s threats to take unilateral ʽpreventiveʼ safeguard measures are unacceptable and legally unfounded. we now hope that russia will refrain from taking any such unprovoked, restrictive measures. finally, he association agreement does not constitute the final goal of european union-ukraine cooperation. on the contrary, it provides new opportunities and is an important step in the european union’s commitment to support ukraine along the road of transforming this country into a stable and prosperous european democracy.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we expect the russian government to take convincing action instead of just wavering words. russia bears a clear responsibility for the escalation of the situation in the eastern regions of ukraine. that is why we expect russia to stop the flow of weapons and mercenaries across its borders into ukraine. we expect them to use their last remaining influence on armed separatist groups, to assert it and to call on them to end their illegal activities and to accept the peace plan proposed by the ukrainian president. we support the ukrainian government in its efforts to ensure peace, security and stability in the country and, in this context, we also call for the proportionality of the means. it is particularly important to us that we continue to support the government in its efforts to organise an inclusive national dialogue that can take due account of the interests of its citizens in all parts of the country. thirdly, we welcome the activities of various foreign ministers, including my own. we urge the high representative or her successor in office to actively contribute to the international efforts to find a lasting solution to the crisis in ukraine. i think we need to see in the european union that we are again actively shaping ourselves and not leaving it to the national foreign ministers. let me say one last thing: i believe that the resolution we are going to adopt together is a good basis for presenting our real demands. but we should do so in a way that does not create new divisions but helps to close them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it's actually quite fitting for the speaker. i would like to emphasize once again - and i would also like to do so for the benefit of russian citizens who might have to listen to this debate unfiltered for a moment - that the association agreement we signed with ukraine was never directed against russia. this was not an aggression against russia, but a treaty we wanted to conclude in favour of better democratic and economic development in ukraine. i am very pleased that the association agreements with moldova, georgia and ukraine have now been signed. in view of the meeting last week between ukraine, russia and the eu in brussels, i would say again that we can talk about trade, but a veto for russia must not allow the european union to enter into these agreements, because that would actually undermine the ideas of democratic development. i have to tell you, i am more and more appalled every week by how successful russia's strategy is in undermining the democratic process in ukraine by tolerating and now increasingly actively supporting the self-proclaimed separatists, who are partly criminals, in eastern ukraine. this is not acceptable. this is simply against normal relations with russia. we don't need to change our relationship with russia. russia is changing its relations and its approach to ukraine, and to us. i would like to speak again about the sanctions, as we have already discussed them many times. when the sanctions started to work - capital flight is a big problem, the ruble went down - when you felt the impact, there was a parliamentary resolution in russia, and you took back this 100% announcement: we will defend all russians outside russia, if it is necessary. this decision was withdrawn under pressure from economic circumstances. but then the european union, through individual member states, began to contradict itself and the idea of sanctions. i find it intolerable that arms continue to be exported, that russian soldiers are trained in france. this can't be happening! (applause from the centre) i also find it intolerable that now austria and our italian presidency of the council are suddenly pushing ahead with south stream, because this is not a project for energy security, it is a project that is strategically aimed against ukraine! (applause from the centre) i think that if you want to influence president putin, you have to be consistent, and you can't go into this conflict with four different strategies. peace is a great desire, but we can only achieve peace in ukraine if we are very clear about our attitude towards russia - not militarily, but with a willingness to change our relations. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. this topic has been discussed in ukraine again and again throughout the winter. ukraine did not want to join the customs union with russia. ukraine wants the association agreement with the european union. the presidential elections have once again shown the overwhelming majority of ukrainians who want this. this does not mean that ukraine would not like to have good business relations with russia, if russia is interested in good business relations. at the moment, russia is interested in the failure of the reform process in ukraine.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i'm not going to let you go. i was there on the day when parliament decided by a large majority to restore the 2004 constitution, as agreed. i did not see assault rifles, but i saw happy people who were aware of democracy, people who were demonstrating under the flags of europe. that is, people who have obviously understood democracy, while you use your argument to support the putin regime, which is not liberal. you should be ashamed of yourself, taking such positions here! what is clear is that the people of ukraine have decided in the presidential elections: your friends like the fascists together got less than 10%. they voted for democracy and freedom for the west. the decision must be made in kiev, in ukraine, not in brussels, not in washington and not in moscow. that 's all we want . the ukrainian people must have the freedom to choose! we're making an offer for a partnership agreement. each country is free to decide whether it wants to have it. we will ratify it as a parliament quickly as we did with georgia and moldova. but i want to make it clear: this is not against russia. this has no trade policy disadvantages for russia. the disadvantages are only caused by russia's unilateral punitive trade policy against countries that are not politically compliant. this is unacceptable! this must be rejected! and as for what is happening in eastern ukraine: as long as there are russian arms supplies, as long as you have missiles that can shoot down planes over six kilometers high - this is not just from free-lancers - we must say: as long as russia pursues this policy, russia must also expect that sanctions can be imposed. i think it should be clear that each people must have the freedom to make its own decisions. we should help the ukrainians - perhaps with osce groups, the observers - that control over the russian-ukrainian border can be regained so that this border cannot be abused by arms deliveries into ukraine. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the wish of all political forces on the maidan and in all the talks the wish of the great majority of the parliament, the wish of the entire maidan was: we want human rights, a rule of law in which there is no arbitrariness. if you call this fascism, you are one of those people who say in russian terminology that anyone who opposed russification, who opposed sovietization, is a fascist. i cannot agree with that definition. no one was followed. no russian has been persecuted in ukraine because of his language these are all myths. and for that reason, it should be made clear that you cannot follow this propaganda. you should be ashamed of the people you're in this boat with.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i miss in the whole debate the question of how to de-escalate between ukraine and russia. i am not going to go into the details of the situation. sanctions are not a means of de-escalation, they are poison for cooperation between the peoples of europe. i think that russia is as much a european people as ukraine. mr juncker said this morning: 'i welcome the people of ukraine, who are a european people and part of europe'. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would also like to ask you what the eu has done so far to clarify the background and the perpetrators of the human rights violations in connection with the odessa massacre. i look forward to your answers.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think we need to call the kid by his name. in eastern ukraine, russian violence has been carried beyond the borders. without the tanks and the rocket launchers and the fighters that come across the border every day, there would be no violence there. putin is escalating the situation on a daily basis, instead of de-escalating it. he's testing us to see how far he can go. we need to increase the international presence at the borders. the osce must finally be there with a major mission. russia must also be able to prevent what is happening there. i think the eu must also stand by its decisions. it had already been decided to implement the third stage of sanctions if he did not stop his destabilization. then there were only 11 people who were added to the blacklist who won't come to visit us anyway. i think it's very important that we make it clear to him that he cannot continue this destabilization. i am afraid that, in addition to an osce mission, this can only be achieved if we finally implement the third stage of sanctions. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i am quite frank with you: i would say that this would be the ideal solution if we, as the european union, jointly bought these two vessels and used them, for example, to find refugees or to track down smugglers in the mediterranean in the area of reinforcing frontex with helicopter carriers. i also know that this is not possible under the current contracts. but perhaps you might be prepared to consider whether these two helicopter carriers should not be used for a european purpose. i'd like that. because i also see that there are costs involved and that the companies that produced this should also get their money. but that should not benefit russia.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i am very pleased that we have a colleague who lives in ukraine. it is interesting to me that you were elected to the european parliament for fidesz. i would like to know from you how you assess viktor orbán's decision to conclude a new nuclear contract for paks with rosatom at the very beginning of russia's escalation in ukraine. this is also contrary to the idea that we want to have a different energy policy.
member of the commission. - mr president, let me first of all say that i am particularly pleased to be here today to discuss the ongoing transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) negotiations with the newly constituted european parliament. you have a very serious responsibility as it will ultimately fall to you to vote on what will have been negotiated. your thumbs up or down will make or break ttip. given the wide spectrum of opinion in this parliament, disagreement is unavoidable, but i hope the debate will be based on facts and logic. we cannot afford to let it be controlled by irrational fears or false information. let me focus on three themes that have been at the forefront of the criticism levied against ttip: the alleged lack of transparency, the alleged risk of lowering the regulatory standards which underpin our way of life and isds. many people have alleged that the negotiations have been conducted so far in secrecy. it is true that when i meet my counterpart, ambassador froman, we prefer to do it without tv cameras being present. if you want to build confidence you also need a certain degree of confidentiality. it is also true that the commission historically has conducted negotiations without that much media attention, not because we wanted to keep them secret but because the interest was much lower. ttip has completely changed that. the commission has worked hard to accommodate that new reality. to give one example: recently some media reported that leaked secret documents revealed that europe is trying to get access to oil and gas via ttip. but it was not much of a revelation. as a matter of fact position papers have been available for a long time on our dedicated ttip website, clearly stating that we want the us to remove export restrictions in the energy field. tomorrow, in the middle of the sixth negotiating round, the chief negotiators will take a break to interact directly with stakeholders. as in every single negotiating round, there will be scores of presentations from all kinds of parties with a stake in the negotiations and they will be given direct access to the two chief negotiators for questions and answers. when each negotiation round is over, we will publish written summaries of the outcome. we have also put in place an advisory group, consisting of experts carefully selected to represent a broad array of interests from civil society, including unions, consumer organisations and relevant business sectors. we have also persuaded the us to allow us to share negotiation documents with member states and parliament in reading rooms. but that does not mean that we cannot do even more. in fact, i wish we could. but the us only gives access to the parliament on a reading room basis, so you can imagine that it is particularly difficult to convince my american counterpart to go any further with our members of parliament than they do with theirs. one of the sources of confusion is the fact that the negotiating directives given by the council to the commission have not been made officially public. i am deeply convinced we should change that. the negotiation guidelines summarise the eu objectives in the negotiations and could reassure citizens that there is nothing dangerous in ttip. in may i called on the council to declassify them and today i hereby call on them again to publish the negotiating directives. in addition, i will continue to be fully at your disposal to answer all questions you may have. i am ready to consider any other specific ideas on how we can further improve transparency. one of the loudest arguments against ttip that is often raised is that the agreement will force europe to lower its high standards for protection: protection of the environment, of consumers and of workers. the argument is that our european model is much better than the american one and if we try to tear down trade barriers between the two continents we will also automatically tear down the high european standards. some are tempted to turn this into a kulturkampf, claiming that ttip threatens to americanise our way of life. the commission does not share this line of reasoning. first, it appears to suggest that the us is not interested in protecting the environment or its consumers or workers. actually, sometimes protection in the us is higher than here. to illustrate: us courts are much more likely than european ones to award high damages to consumers if they have been harmed by a product they have purchased. the air and water quality legislation in the us is not softer than ours. we do approach many areas in a different way from that in the us and sometimes our rules here are stricter than in the us but we share the same objectives of quality and protection and, even where we differ, our values and concerns are more similar than with any other parts of the world. that is why president obama flatly stated in brussels that he would not agree to any deal if it lowered the standards of protection. neither would the commission. secondly, it is also a wrong argument as a matter of logic. there are plenty of barriers to trade that can be removed without lowering standards. take the internal market. the internal market is low on barriers to trade and high on standards of protection. the same philosophy underpins the ttip negotiations. we should remove protectionism but keep protection. does it really make sense for an inspector from the us to fly over here to inspect our pharmaceutical production sites and repeat exactly the same work already done by a european colleague. if we agree that the american inspector can stay at home and just rely on a copy of the inspection report we have already made, there is no lowering of any standards anywhere. the only thing that is lowered is the amount of red tape. and where the gap in approach between the eu and the us is too wide, we just will not change our rules. we will not import any meat that is treated with hormones. we will not give a blanket approval of imports of gmos. on the other hand it is not because the us makes a claim that it must be wrong by definition. we should rely on the opinions of our own scientists in efsa and not on ideology. finally, i know that many eu citizens are afraid of including isds in the agreement. the feeling is that this will open a way for large american corporations through arbitration to undermine policy space for our democratically elected parliaments. one often-cited example is the ongoing lawsuit by philip morris against australia for introducing plain packaging for cigarettes. we have suspended negotiations with the us on this issue while we conduct a public consultation. we will draw the conclusions from it in due course. we need the debate to be about the isds provisions we are considering including and not some imaginary alternative. the commission’s current ideas are available, black on white, in the consultation document. they have been carefully drafted to ensure that damage claims can only be raised for very clear violations or very fundamental principles of investor protection and that the policy space is fully preserved. contrary to what is alleged by some scaremongers, a us multinational will not be able to successfully sue for damages for lost future profit just because a parliament introduces a new law with the legitimate aim of protecting the environment or public health. the terms of this debate should not be isds or not isds. isds is already a feature in investment treaties between some of our member states and the us. the core question is: what sort of isds do we want for investment protection vis-à-vis the us but also any other third country? there is also a question of consistency to keep in mind. i think it would be difficult one day to claim that we must avoid isds provisions with the us because they are dangerous and then the next day insist on including the same kind of provisions in agreements with others, such as china. the provisions we propose in the consultation represent a very substantial improvement over most of the isds provisions in the 1 400 bilateral investment treaties that currently bind our member states. i am looking forward to an engaging debate.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not it is good that we have another round of negotiations in brussels this week. my group sees great opportunities for citizens, consumers and businesses in a carefully negotiated ttip agreement. it is good that we have a broad debate on this subject - here in the house for the first time, and often in the committee or the special observer group, and also among the general public. it gives us a chance to listen, but it also gives us a chance to get better information. i think it is excellent that commissioner de gucht has now made negotiating documents available to us. i would be glad if the council would finally have some insight and make the negotiating mandate public. it is important that we inform the public, on the commission's website and here as well, of what is and is not the case. it is about growth and employment, and it is not about lowering standards or consumer protection. it is about better market access for our companies - large and small - and it is not about the forced privatisation of water supply. it is about the abolition of customs duties on lorries, cars, shoes or clothing, but it is not about the worsening of workers' rights. it is about solving the problem that foreign investors are still often disadvantaged, and it is not about limiting political decisionmaking or disempowering national courts. it is a question of how 500 million europeans in a globalised world of eight billion people today are finding partners in the rule of law and democracy, and it is not a question of abolishing public broadcasting, national film funding or local community theatres. the commission has a great responsibility. we want ttip, but we don't want it at any price. we want to outline a ttip as outlined in the negotiating mandate and in the resolution of may 2013. we'll measure the text on that at the end. we as the epp will ensure that in the end, and only then will we agree to the agreement. until then, good luck with your negotiations.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. the public is increasingly critical of the ttip negotiations. you can see this in the result of the european elections and in the success of my group. we regard this as a task, and on behalf of my group i ask you not to continue the negotiations on ttip now. take some time to think. you have conducted a consultation on isds and yesterday ambassador o'sullivan informed us that more than 115 000 replies have been received. the people do not want isds in ttip or in the agreement with canada. so draw a line, because 20th century tools don't have to be right for the 21st century. that is why you ask the people what they think about other chapters of the free trade policy. that would be an innovative approach. because you believe that farmers and consumers want further liberalization in trade in agricultural products? i assure you, that is not the case. and by the way, not only in the eu, but in many states in the us, people don't want that. so do not represent the interests of the corporations, but those of the people! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's on the table. and another, because i come from germany, against the background of the nsa spying affairs and so on: unless the americans are willing to commit themselves to protecting and respecting the data of the european population and also of economic actors, there is no basis for a trade agreement. so, keep the commons and stop the ttip negotiations!
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. my dear mr jadot! you have just been very vocal about the lack of transparency. is it possible that you yourself have not even consulted some of the documents at our disposal? and is it possible that your group has not been present at the regular information meetings before and after the negotiating rounds?
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr president, i would like to thank mrs beghin. i'm on the international trade committee, just like you. i look forward to working with you. i'm just wondering how you know we're not getting any documents. the committee hasn't even met yet. i know that the commissioner and his negotiators are providing the so-called monitoring group with the very documents you are requesting. so would you agree that we should wait for the committee meeting, see what kind of documents we get before we make a sweeping assessment like you just did?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is quite obvious that many people have concerns and concerns about this agreement. i think it is time to take these concerns and fears seriously and not to dismiss them. the first step is transparency. it must be said that it has been a very slow process to bring more transparency to the negotiations, and i am still not satisfied with that. i find it intolerable that the council - which is not here today - is preventing the negotiating mandate and the fundamental documents from being published. this is a scandal and i call on the governments to finally abandon this situation so that the citizens of europe can really participate in the debate and know what is going on. i also call on the united states to abandon its policy of isolation. it 's an absurd situation . on one side, you have the nsa, you have spies and whatnot, and the u.s. is trying to get all the information. and when it comes to documents, they prevent their own negotiating documents from being published and ensure that consolidated texts are only accessible in a reading room. for example, the us has presented a paper on the liberalization of education in the private sector - an exciting question, all that concerns adult education. i want to know what the united states is asking for. i can't see this document. this can't go on. if we are negotiating, there must also be transparency in all the documents on the table. otherwise, one side is clearly at a disadvantage. i just want to be able to sign something that's negotiated transparently. i also feel that on the issue of isds, the concerns and needs of people are now very, very strong - also on the other side of the atlantic, by the way. the more than 150 000 responses to the consultation showed that. so we should draw the line and say, yes, we want trade agreements, but without isds, that's the perspective. the united states has a trade agreement with australia, by the way, without isds. so clearly we should take the concerns here seriously and not have them. if you are serious about investment protection mechanisms outside the court system, commissioner, i wonder why you have not taken action to establish an international court for investment protection at the wto, instead of imposing such a thing in bilateral treaties. the old member states of the european union do not have such an agreement with any oecd country. in the end, we decide, and i think we do so very consciously and rationally, as we have shown in the acta case. the commission should therefore take the signals seriously. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the blue card procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. - i'm not going to do it. thank you for your clear words on the subject of investor dispute resolution. i have a question about this: does the clear standard you have set also apply to the agreement with canada, singapore and vietnam? these are all agreements which also provide for these mechanisms. do you also make it as clear there that these dispute settlement mechanisms should not be part of the agreements?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. there is enough research now that isds is not significant for investment. brazil, for example, has no isds, and yet there is a lot of investment in brazil. in this respect, i believe that this instrument is from the last century and should also be on the rubbish heap of history.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the consultation on investor-state litigation attracted more people than any other consultation. this shows the great discomfort of people throughout europe with a private law that benefits only the big companies. we should take this discomfort seriously. now that the newly elected president of the commission has also spoken out against such parallel justice, will you, commissioner, exclude the investor appeal procedure from ceta, the canada agreement, and ttip, the agreement with the usa? i'd like to hear that from you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the misleading title 'free trade' is what we are debating today on ttip. the isds threatens to slip through the back door as a further curtailment of the powers of national parliaments. if european parliaments are to decide on consumer protection, data protection, the environment, health policy and workers' rights under the damocles sword of financial claims by corporations, this will change the political culture in europe. the commission's responsibility lies with you. are you willing and able to take on this responsibility? would a majority of the population in europe want to be represented by you on this issue? the negotiations on ttip belong to the national parliaments. the commission does not have the necessary democratic legitimacy. if it does negotiate, then please act as a pioneer for free trade between the peoples of the world. it would also be possible to reach a democratic political and social consensus quickly. the freedom, democracy and the right of self-determination of the peoples of europe must not be at the disposal of - or the price of - free trade, mr de gucht.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i shall confine myself to the question of investment protection. even if i don't make myself popular with you now, i have to say that i'm not against it in principle. i do not see a breach of the rule of law here. it is, however, a question of greater legal certainty. it is a question of uniform rules, of order in a wilderness of 1 400 different agreements. it is not just about favouring large corporations. the protection of investments is for all investors, including small and mediumsized enterprises. that is why i ask the commission: when will the results of the consultation be published? what conclusions will you draw from this? i'm not advocating isds as we know it from the last century. i am pleading for a modern form that is transparent and will help us all. the last question is: what are we going to do about agreements such as ceta? do we have to renegotiate everything, or do we stay with the status quo? a year ago, we were overwhelmingly in favour. let us continue along this path, but with a lot of critical accompaniment.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this debate shows very clearly that we need a strong democratic centre in this house. marine le pen makes a fool of democratically elected politicians here, then pretends to speak for the peoples of europe, gives simple answers to difficult questions. i know this rhetoric from the 1930s in my country. i find that frightening. and here, at the gue, we have communists who are demanding immediate transparency, but - whether it comes or not, mr le hyaric has said so - immediate termination of the negotiations, end of debate. this shows that they are not interested in transparency, they are interested in blowing up the agreement, no matter what it says, no matter what it says. this shows that this is a campaign that's going on here, from the far right outside and from the far left outside. this is hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen! we all want new jobs, we all want growth in europe. how are jobs created in europe? they are created by research and innovation, by new products, by new services and by the opening up of new markets! airbus has tried to enter the american defence market - in vain! these are new jobs in the aviation industry for us in europe! the food industry tokia saïfi has mentioned it: we are a strong continent in food. you have a duty on european cheese of over 100%. no normal consumer in america can afford that! the commission has already made a number of proposals. other footwear: the internet is full of frustrated consumers paying hundreds of euros in customs duties on shoes going both ways. the shoe industry in italy, the leather industry - they create new jobs in europe! those who are against ttip should stop pretending to be in favour of jobs and growth in europe. let us not forget that in the end this parliament decides by a broad democratic majority, in which i expressly include the ecr and the greens.
i am not going to go into detail. there is no question of general mutual recognition of standards. but if we could accept mutual testing standards, for example for motor vehicles, then that would be a huge relief for... (interruption of the debate) but it would be a great help in this context - just as if you cut red tape, cut tariffs, simplify testing procedures, that our companies in europe do not have to go through all this twice if we open up public procurement to each other. we have in all our public offices microsoft software running on ibm computers or dell computers. in america, they have buy american. we also have european products to offer. at least for american public agencies to buy european cars would be a great advance. european cars are definitely better than american cars. i would like to conclude by saying that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to ask you, commissioner de gucht, to give me a little more time to discuss the question of transparency. the commission has always responded to the call for greater transparency with complacency and condescension. you were just talking about irrationality and misinformation that you wanted to correct. can you even understand that there is legitimate criticism? i would like to point out that the new president of the commission has promised that there will be a new beginning in terms of transparency. what we have so far is not enough. i am not a member of the inta committee, i am a member of the us delegation, i am a member of the transatlantic legislators dialogue. i cannot go to room 4c18 in brussels and look at the documents. i cannot ask my colleague jadot, who has been there, what he saw. that's not enough! we need full access to all the crucial negotiating documents. and for the ngos and for civil society, we need the same access that the industry lobby has had for a long time.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i believe that the ttip agreement is of great importance because it strengthens the political relations between europe and america - the two great democracies on this planet, which share many common values. ttip is an important issue, also for the economy. this creates jobs, brings more competitiveness. we must oppose all protectionists: protectionism has still destroyed jobs, while free trade has created jobs. (applause from the centre) when i see this there , the venerable leftists and communists: the commission has not yet been able to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. please don't upset us with this. here, the contract is linked to things that are not negotiated! european standards in the social, consumer and environmental fields will not be destroyed! this parliament has assumed the right to legislate on this matter. we're not giving that away to arbitration. it's not supposed to be there. on the contrary, with the americans, we can enforce global standards, from banning child labor to enforcing copyright. we can set industry standards to be more competitive on that basis, to secure our jobs, to survive in this world! that's the way it is! i do not want an alliance of protectionists, anti-americanists and others who invent things that have nothing to do with the facts and thus destroy our european interests, the interests of our workers. but it also means, commissioner, if i may make a comment, that we should try not to make this a mixed agreement, but at least to limit it to a part that can be ratified in this house. if it goes into 28 national parliaments, we have a problem. maybe you should reconsider. but we should counter this campaign in the social services, which have nothing to do with the negotiations.
i have to say, madam president, this is a very important topic we're talking about today. we have to think very carefully. so i'm going to look at this a little differently than my predecessor. we have a fundamental principle in our european union which is particularly important, namely the precautionary principle. the precautionary principle is of the utmost importance, particularly in the fields of agriculture and consumer protection. that is one of the issues on which we are at present at odds with the united states, which is demanding that we do away with it. we cannot accept that. yes, we may need trade with the us, but not any trade. and we will also take the floor of mr juncker, who has made it very clear today that we do not want to agree to any agreement, but we want to make sure that it is something sensible. if it is not reasonable, if consumer protection, environmental protection, data protection or other important areas should be called into question, then we cannot agree. and that is why i am very clear: we must ensure that we look very carefully at what is going to be in these texts and that we also ensure that the best outcome is achieved for our citizens. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i cannot see the advantages or disadvantages at the moment because i do not yet know the texts. i cannot say what is in a text i do not know and how i should judge it. but i want to make one thing very clear: i cannot and my group will not support a text which would be detrimental to workers' rights, social rights or anything of that sort.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is good, as elmar brok said, that the united states and europe work better together as great democracies. it is urgent that we abolish useless bureaucracy. but as coordinator of the epp in the environment committee, i must of course take particular care to ensure that we really enforce our standards. there are some critical discussions in the food sector. i am very disappointed, commissioner, that the demands for labelling cloned meat have been rejected, contrary to the proposal of the european parliament and the commissioner in charge of the commission, with the argument of ttip. i think it's dangerous to do that. it can weaken acceptance, which is why you should reconsider. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but we must take people's concerns seriously. i was not elected and we were not elected to teach people that we know better. so you should still take this demand. i think we can fight for the deal with more credibility. we must be sensitive to this, and then we can advertise the benefits with a clear conscience.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have thought many times today, in this debate, whether all colleagues have not yet understood that the election campaign is over. it is as my colleagues mr rübig and mr winkler have clearly stated: we have decided to open negotiations on the transatlantic free trade agreement, which the 28 member states of the european union have supported, in the light of the fact that globalisation will eventually become even more acute in europe and we will only remain strong if we take the right approach. that is why we are negotiating, and that is the right objective, whether we like or dislike certain aspects of the negotiations that have been held so far. of course we must take the concerns of the citizens seriously. but we must also make clear why we have started the negotiations and why we believe we can bring them to a successful conclusion. the world around europe this is important to me as a single market politician is not standing still. if we don't line up properly, she'll be dragging us by. we are doing this in the interests of the citizens, the workers and, in the end, the consumers. if we do it right - and this is of course also a matter of public relations - we can win over the public to this agreement. i therefore hope that you will intensify your communication accordingly.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i very much welcome the fact that the eu commission is withdrawing the maternity directive. i would like to give three brief reasons. firstly, the less the eu regulates, the better, in principle. let us not forget that each member state has a democratically elected parliament and a democratically legitimised government. let them take care of it. the eu's prime minister, jean-claude juncker, said here in parliament today that the eu is not such a democracy. he has explicitly said that he will not serve parliament, and he has said that parliament has a right of inquiry over him - a right of inquiry! - and that right of inquiry will not be curtailed for the time being. we are very grateful to mr juncker for this, but it is not democratic in the sense in which it is called. secondly, maternity protection is not a matter for the european union. the european union claims responsibility for workers' rights and labour market policy, but it is expressly not responsible for family policy. the eu does not even claim that. but let's look at the maternity policy. the basic question is: what is this directive about? is the pregnant woman concerned with the protection of an employee or an expectant mother? a pregnant woman is to be protected. yes, of course. a mother-to-be is the nucleus of a new family. and that is why the protection of an expectant mother is the special protection of a family and therefore family policy, which is the responsibility of the member states and not the eu labour market policy. i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its approach to the question of the protection of mothers, and that it has been very careful in its approach to the question of the protection of mothers. with mothers you protect the children, and with the children you protect the future!
i have to say, madam president, the maternity directive has been blocked for four years now. this is a frightening signal to all expectant mothers in europe who are in the labour market. i thank the italian presidency for lending us a hand. because instead of providing security, we've left mothers out in the rain for far too long, before and after birth. we are therefore in favour of an agreement in the interests of mothers and of not putting everything off any longer. but what parliament has found here in discussions, in compromise negotiations, must also be part of the basis for further agreement in the future. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community. i am convinced that the commission has a duty to ensure that the member states are able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the social dimension of the internal market is fully respected. women in employment also want and need to be able to have children. we must do everything we can to protect and support them. the international labour organization and the world health organization are setting the necessary standards for us. this is a matter of safeguarding the health of children and mothers in europe. for example, children may be breast-fed for longer periods of time. this will prevent many secondary diseases and reduce the risk of secondary diseases for mothers. if some people here and out there talk about cost: these are costs that will not be incurred in the future if sick leave is avoided, if health costs are avoided. the extension of maternity protection in europe is a real social and health progress. we must not fall back into old patterns, but we must think ahead and support women, families and fathers too.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think the european commission has made a wise decision in proposing to repeal the maternity directive. i have also been in this house for many years and have followed the debates and discussions on the maternity protection directive since 2008/2009. it is simply necessary to take note of the fact that the president of the council has explained it in detail: there are different maternity protection schemes in 28 member states. this is related to the length of maternity protection, this is related to the funding systems, this is related to the various social partners involved in this maternity protection issue. in short, it's not possible to believe that one model can solve all problems. in my country, germany, we have a combination of maternity and parental leave models - wonderful, but it did not work with the approach proposed by the commission. i am glad that the commission is taking note of the facts here: if there is no majority in the european council and parliament, then we must also draw the consequences and withdraw a proposed directive. each of us is for mother protection, each of us is for mother protection. i've done that in my country for many years. but i think that to cling to one dossier and cling to it, to force the member states with their regulations into a corset that does not fit in 27 member states, that is simply not possible. so i'm grateful for the retraction.
i have to say, madam president, in october 2013, commission president barroso promised to propose new legislation only if it made sense at european level. not everything that can be done in the member states should be solved at european level. now refit is here, 53 bills have been withdrawn, including the failed revision of the maternity protection directive, on hold since 2011. 13 member states, including germany, vetoed the resolution. we have regulations for the protection of mothers, which have been made through many compromises over many decades. it is not possible to extend maternity protection from 14 to 18 weeks at a stroke. i have argued for the german model of combined maternity and parental leave and obtained a large majority for amendments. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the work of the european social fund. germany is the european champion in child protection, and it does not need any regulation from brussels. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the protection of the environment is not jeopardised. the introduction of young women into the profession would have created an additional obstacle. the commission's withdrawal of the directive shows that it has learned from its mistakes. i hope for more evidence of smarter and leaner eu legislation. the european election campaign has shown that this is what our citizens care about.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the destruction of chemical weapons is a serious matter. and because it is a serious matter, i believe it can only be done under the highest security measures. it would be interesting to know what specific safety precautions have been taken so far and what will be taken in the future. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected. i also think it is important and part of the acceptance that the public is involved, that the public is made aware of what is ultimately happening off the coast of the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not affected. it is of great importance for regions where tourism is an important, if not the main, source of economic income. that is why it is important and essential that we should be able to present the transparent way in which chemical weapons are destroyed. we must explain to the citizens how many chemical weapons will be destroyed, at what time, when and where. i think it is right that we support the destruction of chemical weapons, and that is the way we should go, but in the case as described. the european union must not forget that support for a democratic, peaceful syria must also be guaranteed in parallel. i ask the council and the commission to take this into account.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president! - what is it? lithuania becomes the 19th member of the eurozone. this is good news for lithuania, for the baltic states, for the stability of the euro, for the whole of europe and for financial markets throughout the world. parliament gave the green light for this accession: yesterday in the econ committee by a large majority, tomorrow in the plenary and on 23 july in the council. welcome to the euro area, lithuania! the government and parliament in lithuania have worked hard since 2006 and met all the criteria: a stable exchange rate, low inflation despite increased energy dependence due to the decommissioning of two nuclear power plants in ignalina in 2006 and 2009, low interest rates on the national debt, low public debt, a limited deficit. all this has been achieved despite the huge financial market crisis, the economic downturn and a desire in lithuania for young people to move abroad, even a wave of emigration. the signs are now of economic recovery, sound finances and a reliable policy framework. we welcome lithuania as the 19th member of the euro area, and i hope others will follow - perhaps faster than expected, considering the discussion in poland. the euro itself is stable internally and externally, with low inflation rates, a high exchange rate against the dollar the world's main currency and has established itself as the world's second reserve currency. but to those who see the euro as an economic project, as a unit of account, we must say: the euro is a political project. the european council in brussels in december last year stressed the need to strengthen the european union's role in the world economy by strengthening the european union's role in the world economy. the euro has stood its ground against speculators and financial market turbulence, in particular vis-à-vis individual members, despite many attacks. i am thinking of those who have been in difficulty and some of them are still in difficulty, such as greece, portugal, ireland and cyprus. the stability and growth pact is right, of course, but it was violated 10 years ago by the two largest member states, germany and france. in the meantime, we have made the rules more flexible, we have strengthened them, we have given the pact new teeth. the commission and the member states are called upon to honour the commitments we have made in the two-pack, the six-pack, the budgetary semester. the policy has found the right balance between reform and solidarity, with guarantees and without much taxpayer burden for the stabilization of the euro area. this is the truth, ladies and gentlemen, and it is the responsibility of the european central bank, which has made full use of its monetary policy margin within the framework of its mandate. welcome to lithuania! the euro is our common success story, as is the single market, the maintenance of peace, our prosperity and our social system, european unity in peace and freedom. i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of the report tomorrow and to vote in favour of lithuania's accession on 1 january 2015.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i am very pleased to be here today to discuss the euro adoption prospects for lithuania. i am sure that parliament can play its full part in the euro area enlargement procedure. on 4 june the commission concluded in its convergence report that lithuania has achieved a high degree of sustainable economic convergence and is ready to adopt the euro on 1 january 2015. the commission has therefore made a proposal to the council to this effect. we have examined lithuania thoroughly but fairly and fully respecting the principle of equal treatment. the sustainability of convergence has been an integral part of the assessment. regarding the procedural steps so far: following the commission proposal, euro area member states in the council adopted a recommendation on adoption of the euro by lithuania and the european council congratulated lithuania on fulfilling the convergence criteria in the treaty. i now invite parliament to signal its political support for adoption of the euro by lithuania on 1 january 2015. after the vote in this parliament, it is envisaged that the council will adopt final legislative proposals on adoption of the euro in lithuania on 23 july to give lithuania sufficient time to prepare for the 1 january 2015 changeover.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. first of all, i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr werner langen, and his shadow rapporteurs very warmly for their work. the commission has presented a very good, balanced report, under enormous time pressure, also due to the start of the new legislative term. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the euro. lithuania, like its baltic neighbours estonia and latvia, has made remarkable economic progress. i was personally impressed that the lithuanian government, despite a failed attempt in 2006, did not let itself be turned away from its path. extensive reforms and austerity measures have paid off. the numbers speak for themselves. both the commission recommendation and the ecb recommendation, as well as the econ report, make it clear that the maastricht criteria are clearly fulfilled. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the economic situation in the community is not affected by the economic crisis. yesterday, the vote was clear in committee: 46 to 8 with one abstention. the positive result of the vote of the econ members of the seventh legislature on 7 april 2014 was thus impressively confirmed. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to express my clear support for lithuania's accession to the euro. the eu's economic and monetary union is a major step forward in the process of economic and monetary union. the euro remains attractive as a currency. i am convinced that lithuania will be another important, indeed reliable, partner for us in the euro area. finally, as rapporteur for latvia's adoption of the euro last year, i was very angry that we were not allowed to speak. i am all the more pleased that we can now have this debate in parliament on such an important subject as lithuania's accession to the euro.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. mr balz pointed out that this decision is under time pressure a decision which is irrevocable. the question is, why is there time pressure? we are facing the stress tests of the european banking system; the results are not yet available. we have now completed four years in which the financial crisis was particularly severe because banks were unable to cope with a stress situation. what is the reason for the time pressure? why not wait until the results of the stress test are available for the lithuanian banking system as well? there was a convergence test, a convergence report by the european central bank, in which the european central bank pointed out that the criterion of price stability was not present. the inflation rate in lithuania is very volatile, it was in double digits not long ago, it is now almost on the verge of deflation. prices are threatening to fall. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement. and these macroeconomic imbalances have to be offset by real adjustments, by unemployment, by income losses, by tax increases, or whatever, if there is no more exchange rate flexibility, if there is no more autonomous monetary policy. these are the burdens borne by the population. and then you wonder why the population is not being asked. i have heard speeches here from people who think they know what the lithuanian population wants on the basis of opinion polls. but, ladies and gentlemen, if you are so sure, you could also let the people vote. it is illegitimate to take the lithuanians into the euro without first asking them whether they are prepared to bear the burdens that may result for them from joining the euro.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mrs kappel, you said that the convergence figures were impressive. you also referred to the inflation rate of 0.6%, or 0.3% actually. but what is impressive about being close to deflation, where the stated objective of the european central bank is to have an inflation rate of 2%, so that you don't slip into the deflation zone? is it not rather a warning sign that lithuania is also facing massive economic problems?
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. - i'm not sure. you all - and your predecessors - rely very much on figures, on statistics which have been collected, although it is clear that the figures which are currently being collected are not very reliable. it is not for nothing that the european accounting standards for the member states are being redesigned. this is happening against the background of the knowledge that the figures are not sufficiently robust at present. so how can you be so sure that these things are proven to be sustainable?
i have to say, madam president, president juncker used a wonderful image this morning to describe the euro. we should not forget that. mr juncker said he had made mistakes on the euro. but the task was difficult. the task was to "repair a burning airplane in flight". he describes the euro as a burning plane, and he's trying to fix it in flight! we should not forget this picture. i would recommend to mr juncker and all those who support him that they consider whether it might be better to make an emergency landing on a burning aircraft rather than fix it. you should crash-land it and then delete it, not try to fix it on the fly. we should hold on to that picture.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism, and for the eu to take action to combat terrorism. well, the history of the euro is full of such failed attempts and the fact that you just go ahead and continue on that path. it's been going on for over a decade now. i feel sorry for the lithuanian people, who for the most part do not want to go down that road. as the great mr juncker might say, welcome to the burning plane!
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, honourable members, this has been a lively discussion where we could hear all the arguments for and against. i must make some remarks concerning the debate. first of all the euro group and ecofin have both discussed the lithuanian accession to the euro area and adoption of the euro and unanimously welcomed the results achieved by the lithuanian people – and this was with the participation of the european central bank – so there was no doubt about the performance of the republic of lithuania. so it is very clear that the convergence evidence is very solid. it has been taken very seriously by all institutions including the european commission and the european central bank. the inflation rate today is more or less coherent with the inflation rate all over the european union. if you compare it with the inflation rate of 2008, that was a completely different time; you cannot say that this was a volatile time and make some kind of conclusion based on the evidence of 2008. some members of the european parliament have advocated an autonomous monetary policy which can help to solve some social and economic problems, but i must say that lithuania has abandoned its autonomous monetary policy – since 2002, if i am correct – so from that year there has been a fixed exchange rate. lithuania joined the exchange rate mechanism a couple of years later, so it has already been in the system of the european monetary policy, and in this sense there is no change. what i would also like to say is that people who cannot see the virtues, the positive signs of exchange rate stability should look back at the history of the european union. from the beginning – 1957, throughout the 1960s – the economic policy of the european union was poisoned by the constant quarrelling about exchange rates between the member states. some member states changed their exchange rates without warning and this created a real feeling of urgency that if we want to have single functioning market we must also have a functioning and harmonised monetary environment, which means a single currency. i would, of course, like to say as well that from the commission’s viewpoint all the necessary procedures have been followed, and the commission has no doubts about the democratic nature of the decision. as a member from lithuania said, all member states who joined the european union from 1 may 2004 have actually had referendums which contained this question. so it was already decided then; we had referendums in the baltic countries and this was a part of our accession negotiations and our agreement on how to develop our economic policies further.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president! - what is it? i wonder: all these critics who have spoken here, from the right and the left, have disappeared. not a single one of them listened to the arguments. this is not serious work! this is historical and irresponsible! the contributions made here today did not reflect the outcome of the european elections, nor did they reflect the way in which opinions were formed in the european parliament. i want to start with one point: it's a legitimate decision. the lithuanian government has unanimously decided to join the euro. parliament voted 81 percent 87 in favour, 7 against and 13 abstentions to approve the laws in april. that is a clear democratic majority. all those who now claim that this is not legitimate, that a referendum must be held, do not want to take into account that according to the latest polls - all of which are quoted here - the opinion has changed. the majority is now in favour of the euro, and the number will continue to rise. i am not saying that the european union should be a political union, but that it should be a political union. and the lithuanian government, the parliament, have made efforts which are not only honourable but which can be taken advantage of by the critics here. we are therefore convinced that lithuania should join as soon as possible. there will be more to come: sweden, poland and more. i am absolutely convinced that the statements made by mr landsbergis and mr dombrovskis and the former romanian prime minister are correct, that this is a successful project and that we are fully supporting it. i am looking forward to lithuania being the 19th member and i hope that we will vote on the 20th and 21st next year. there was no time pressure. the report is only made that way because it has always been that way. i have been on the committee on economic and monetary affairs for 20 years. it has always been decided on the basis of the latest figures for june. what mr lucke said about the time pressure, he has no idea, as do some professors.
in accordance with article 7 of the code of conduct for members of the european parliament in the field of financial interests and conflicts of interest, i appointed yesterday, 15 july 2014, the five members of the advisory committee on the conduct of members. these are: danuta maria hübnermady delvaux-stehressajjad karimfrancisco sosa wagnerjiří maštálkathe two reserve members will be named in the next few days, because we have yet to contact them and have not received a response from all of them. the five full members may begin work immediately. i thank my colleagues for their willingness to cooperate. mr glezos, you have come to the rules of procedure.
i'm not going to let you go. in this house, anyone can speak and make a point on the rules of procedure or the agenda, as you have just done. you have come here to speak, i have given you the floor. you did not speak on the agenda, nor on the rules of procedure, but you were able to express yourself here. mr papadakis did not do that yesterday. mr papadakis has not responded to the question, nor has he given any indication that he intends to say anything. he just started talking. we are now 751 colleagues. if everyone starts talking, it's not a democracy anymore. it's a plurality of voices, so nobody knows who said what. i therefore asked mr papadakis to wait and to speak properly. if he had, i would have given him the floor. it's not like everyone here can say, "look, i'm not interested in that". i'll tell you what i think. this is not the way. i have given mr papadakis the opportunity to say that as a member of the communist party of greece and as a non-attached member he does not feel represented by mrs le pen. i can understand that, and i am hereby making public once again what he was trying to say: that mrs le pen spoke on behalf of the non-attached, but not on his behalf. i think that makes it quite clear.
the next item is the vote on the motions for resolutions. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes) i have been informed that there is to be a motion for a resolution.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we think that we should vote separately on the proposals for the interim period in the commission, the four subbranches, and not as a bloc. why is that important? my group is convinced, first of all, that it does not make much sense to appoint new commissioners for three months. if the appointment does come, even though the powerful commissioner oettinger, who is taking this position, has not been able to win our support, we believe it would be important, after yesterday's hearings, to be able to express a differentiated opinion on the various candidates in order to be fair to all. we would not be voting against everyone if we could vote differently. the results of the hearings were, in our opinion, mixed. we have come to a negative assessment of mr katainen in particular. i would ask you to allow the members to decide on a separate vote. otherwise, because we consider this renomination to be a total nonsense and a waste of money, we would have to vote against it or at best we could just abstain. (applause from the centre)
thank you very much, mrs. harms. mr fox! is your speech about this point or do you have another point?
i can't answer that last question. i don't know what the commissioners' entitlements are for the rest of their lives. it would be nice for her if it were. i'll check on that. first of all, the conference of presidents has decided that this vote should be taken en bloc. i put it to the vote yesterday at the conference of presidents. there was a clear majority in favour of us voting en bloc here. now mrs harms has put forward a motion for a separate vote. we have a spokesman for that, and that was mr fox. does anyone wish to speak against mrs harms' motion?
a question of the rules of procedure: i would like to know whether the block vote is mandatory for the reappointment of commissioners, because it is not a vote of the commission as a whole. i am not aware of any compulsory block voting for the re-appointment of commissioners. we have already said that as a group yesterday. (applause from the centre)
mrs. zimmer, please. the en bloc vote is clearly not mandatory. the vote is mandatory en bloc on the whole commission. we have no rules about surnames, but that's at the discretion of the house. that is why i introduced a procedure yesterday in preparation for this meeting of the conference of presidents, in which you were present. i have stated and let it be stated there - because i am not the only one to decide this and it should not be my sole decision - as the conference of presidents, which is preparing this meeting, sees it. the conference of presidents voted overwhelmingly in favour of a block vote. now mrs harms has asked that this decision of the conference of presidents be corrected and that we vote on it individually. it is a matter of fairness that we put mrs harms' motion to the vote. (the request for an electronic vote is rejected)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. article 38 of the rules of procedure requires parliament to examine the financial consequences of any act it adopts. it has to determine the financial consequences. the question has just been put to you as to the financial consequences of the election of the commissioners for three months. parliament must be informed first. you owe us the information before we vote.
these commissioners are elected for the remainder of the term of office of the present commission. the same ends on the last day of october. the next commission will take office on 1 november. that means that the members you are voting on now will take office immediately and will end their term of office on 31 october. all the consequences of this, both the rights arising from the law of service and the rights arising from the law of pensions and pensions, are the result of the existing rules of procedure for members of the european commission, which you, mr lucke, are certainly aware of. they're available in the house. all the members of this commission and all the candidates have declared their financial interests in advance. the pension rights arise from the pension regulations of the commission and the european institutions, which are also available in detail on the intranet of this house at any time. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) if you are not familiar with these, mr lucke, i am surprised, because you always seem to be perfectly informed. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have heard in the election campaign over and over again how much needs to be done to tackle the problem of youth unemployment in the european union. my group will make this issue one of the most important priorities in the coming legislature, not only because it is taking away the prospects of life for millions of young people in europe, but also because in the long term it will lead to the break-up of european societies and the european union itself. for years, young people in europe have been told about austerity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in addition to the social consequences of this policy, the very term 'austerity policy' is incorrect. is it economical to pursue a policy which, according to a eurofound study, costs the eu member states €153 billion a year? it is not a question of spending money on the problem of youth unemployment. this money and this half-assed support will not be enough to solve the dramatic problem of youth unemployment. we therefore call for an end to the blind austerity policies which affect young people in particular in the fields of education and labour market policy, and instead for investment in the future of young people. we call for the youth guarantee to be implemented in a meaningful way with more support from the european level, as proposed in the joint resolution. and we demand that, in the many other demands which will be included in the resolution adopted jointly with many members of this parliament, these words finally be followed by action. the question of whether or not the european union will be able to solve the problem of youth unemployment in the coming years will be pivotal for the whole integration project. if we fail, we lose a future and a generation. but if we manage to overcome this challenge together in solidarity, that is the first step towards a socially just and stable european union. we must therefore fight this battle now, before it is too late, and give young people a chance to see the european union again. and we hope to have the commission on our side.
i have to say, madam president, the still high level of youth unemployment is a scandal. we social democrats have been calling for many years for rapid action and concrete proposals that actually work, such as investment in growth to create jobs or the youth guarantee. what has been done so far is not enough. the fight against youth unemployment must be a top priority for all of us here in parliament, for the commission and also for the council. pushing black peter back and forth, trying to figure out who's to blame for the fact that nothing's moving, is not going to get us anywhere. the 6 billion euros for the youth guarantee are too little. we must support the member states in implementing the budget, including the call-up of funds. we also have to look closely. what is the local use of the funds? is youth unemployment being tackled? or is the cause of youth unemployment actually being tackled? we must also make concrete proposals now: what happens when the funds are exhausted? we need to make sure that there are more funds after 2016. and we need more european solidarity, for example in the area of cofinancing. we social democrats also call for standards in the implementation of the youth guarantee, the setting of binding targets to combat youth unemployment in the context of the european semester. in addition, we also need european minimum standards for good work, for good training places and for good vocational training practices. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat unemployment. i call on everyone not just to hold media-friendly summits, but to address the plight of an entire generation with the same ambition as we have in securing economic freedoms in the single market or rescuing banks.
i have to say, madam president, yesterday we saw jean-claude juncker elected president of the commission by a large majority. he promised a new start for the eu with a ten-point reform agenda. the main objective is to create more and better quality employment and to combat youth unemployment. we do not want to leave jobseekers on their own and we have decided to introduce the youth guarantee, which is better than many have said. i already dealt with this issue in a report to the european parliament in october 2010. our ambitious promise: we want to reach an expansion for young people now, up to the age of 30. since 1 january, eur 6 billion has been made available as a first measure to combat youth unemployment. we have problems in the member states with implementation. that needs to change. it is about targeted aid now, not in a few months. above all, we need economic sectors with high growth and employment potential. this must be encouraged. we must counter the trend of deindustrialization. young people need support for small and medium-sized enterprises. they are the job engine in the eu, with over two thirds of all jobs. employment figures within the eu are divergent. we've been there. in greece, croatia, about half of the young people are unemployed. we must not let this go unchallenged, and we must not let it go unchallenged, even in other member states. in germany, the figure is 7.8%. the comparatively low figures are certainly due to the dual nature of vocational and school education. more and more imitators are now joining us across europe. this is a good draft that we can bring in. the accusation that many unregistered unemployed young people in germany are being neglected is completely unfounded. a close-knit network of high-level counselling, placement and support is available to all young people who want to work. in addition, the first period of support increases the chances of entering the labour market. those seeking education or employment should not be left alone.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat youth unemployment, but has not yet discussed the causes of youth unemployment. if we look at youth unemployment in europe, we see that it is not a pan-european phenomenon. youth unemployment in germany is 8%, while in greece it is 60%, in spain also 60%, in italy and france between 30% and 40%. you just have to realize that these are such huge differences that you can't explain it by saying, "well, the spanish and the french and the italians, they don't educate their youth properly, they don't have the great german dual system", or something like that, but you have to realize that it's about the competitiveness of these countries. the competitiveness of these countries is massively affected by the single european currency. the commission is turning a blind eye to the fact that it is the single european currency that robs young people of their future prospects, that degrades young people because they cannot find work, that causes young people in europe to turn away from europe in disillusionment because they see their future career disrupted. the commission must finally see this problem and give it due consideration. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. mr sulík, you are quite right to raise the problem that in the european parliament and in the european commission there seems to be a prevailing thinking that this problem can be tackled by state intervention, by investment programmes, by debt-financed investment programmes. but in reality, of course, the state has very little influence on the competitiveness of private enterprises. that is to say, the problem is actually outside the scope of a government's control. the only way a government can try to make things easier for businesses that create jobs for young people is to allow more flexibility in exchange rates.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. it must be noted that the world economy has been growing much faster than the european economy for years. and it should be noted that the eurozone is growing less than europe. it has also become clear today that growth in the south of europe is much weaker than in the north of europe, with the following consequences: firstly, we complain about deindustrialisation in the south of europe, not in the north of the euro zone. we complain about growing unemployment in the south of europe, not in the north of europe. we complain about youth unemployment in the south of europe, not in the north of europe. the reason is quite simple: the euro has become far too heavy and too expensive for the south. this is something that almost all economists in the south complain about, and more and more politicians in the south complain about. that is why we must finally talk in this parliament about the terrible effects of a single currency. a one-size-fits-all currency is a currency that can only be described as a one-size-fits-none currency.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. under the youth employment guarantee, member states have committed themselves to ensuring that all young people aged up to 25 are in employment within four months. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am therefore very pleased that the resolution we are about to adopt, under point g, expressly states that it is also primarily a question of how we equip young people in time with the necessary skills to fill occupations which are already open today and for which we have too few candidates. the fact is that not only are large and especially small firms in germany in urgent need of young workers with the necessary qualifications, but that in france, spain and italy too there is a growing demand for young people with craftsmanlike qualities. i would therefore urge you, commissioner, to give greater emphasis to this. there are jobs in the european union, but we don't have the applicants at the moment. if we can do better, if we can bring together education, training and the necessary skills, we will be able to solve many problems! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am new to this parliament. i'm a scientist. i know. scientists think in terms of cause and effect. i have heard only normative phrases: we must do this, we must do that. normative sentences without analytical underpinning are irrelevant. we're going to need these phrases over and over again in the years to come. what is needed is a causal analysis. why has unemployment in germany, especially youth unemployment, fallen dramatically since 2010? why has unemployment, especially youth unemployment, risen dramatically in the southern periphery? why is our export surplus growing? why are they no longer able to export internationally? these are the crucial questions! if they just have an exchange rate that's supposed to apply to different countries, then i can tell them that's not going to work. they'll say the same thing next year, and no one will invest. who invests in a country that is not competitive? if they answer this question: why don't private investors invest in our country? , then they come closer to the question: how do we eliminate unemployment?, (applause from the centre)
mr president, forgive me, but that person used racist language. he used the word ‘nigger’ and should be censured much more strictly. (applause)
in writing. - i thank the rapporteur, mr werner langen, for his good and balanced report, which leaves no doubt that lithuania is ready to adopt the euro. the country has enjoyed remarkable economic development in recent years and has met all the criteria for joining the euro area. despite the financial market crisis of recent years, lithuania has a low public debt and low inflation rates. the efforts made so far must be continued in the future if sustainable development is to be achieved. the eu has also adopted a number of measures to improve the functioning of the internal market. the introduction of the euro will further boost lithuania's economic recovery. the risk of fluctuations in exchange rates is minimised. a small country like lithuania in particular benefits from a stable euro. the introduction of the euro is not only a positive sign for lithuania and the baltic states. the accession of lithuania, like that of latvia, is a strong signal for the euro area. the euro has not only established itself - despite much criticism - as a strong second world currency alongside the dollar. it is also a political project and a shared success story. i am pleased that we are gaining another reliable partner in the euro area in lithuania and i am convinced that others will soon follow.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament's budgetary powers are not undermined. the vast majority of over 82% also proves that the eurosceptics are wrong. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote in the european parliament. the reasoning of mr lucke, now postponed, that the bundesbank would temporarily lose its voting rights in the governing council as a result of the rotation principle which will come into force on accession, was not discussed in the economic affairs committee or in yesterday's debate in plenary. mr lucke, who has made this point in a written minority statement, has not tabled any amendments or similar oral amendments, thus proving that the anti-euro people are not interested in a factual debate but in short-sighted and populist arguments against the single european currency. i am pleased that the european parliament has so clearly supported the enormous efforts lithuania has made to join the euro.
i have received the following nominations from the efdd group: these appointments shall be deemed confirmed if no objection is received pending the approval of this protocol. i have a message from mr. moraes.
thank you very much, mrs. kyenge. the president has been informed of this incident. i am sorry, but i shall not be taking any more motions for resolutions on this subject. i have one more question.
- i'm not going to. you know the customs, you're no newcomer to this house. the president has been informed of this development. it is for the president to draw conclusions from this and, if necessary, to impose sanctions. that's why i said it like that. you know enough about the past to know that there are consequences to be drawn from these events. i will not take any more comments on this subject.
- the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the state of play of payments from the eu budget in view of unrealised commitments by the eu at an unprecedented level (
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not we are talking today about the eu's outstanding payment commitments, which have reached a level of serious concern. the current eu payments budget is €135.5 billion, and now a supplementary budget no 3 is to increase the budget by €4.7 billion for payments. of this, €4 billion is additional revenue which ultimately has to be raised by the member states. for example, germany has to pay 668 million euros for this amount. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary discipline and the budgetary discipline of the union. this is a matter of putting the burden on the future and of severely limiting the budgetary authority of future parliaments. can the commission guarantee that it will not need more money in 2018? i'd like that information. in addition, the supplementary budget provides for these payments to cover, for example, so-called unforeseen expenditure. but every year there are unforeseen expenses. it is also worth noting that some of this expenditure is necessary because it is so determined by eu regulations. for example, the esf has set the prefinancing rate for a given measure at almost ten times the usual rate. this alone has led to additional expenditure of eur 99 million. but if these expenditures are deliberately brought about by regulations, are they unforeseen? we say no. we in the ecr reject budgetary increases by the back door. we should instead use this as an opportunity to consider whether our budgetary system is sustainable at all, whether we have enough transparency and sufficient controls. we should introduce them and use this as an opportunity.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this is not the first time the european commission has warned against empty cash and non-payment. this year, however, it is particularly alarming because the payment defaults are already appearing much earlier than in previous years. the commission is putting off a huge amount of payments. we have just heard the figure: 221 billion euros. the annual budget is about 135 billion euros. this shows the scale of the problem. where's it coming from? the council has not been prepared to make the corresponding payments it had promised. the result was that payments, open accounts, had to be carried over into the next years. this is a growing problem. i find the council's behaviour in not keeping to the payments promised irresponsible. last year the commission had to carry over 23.4 billion to 2014, and now we have a gap of 4.7 billion. a supplementary budget has been declared for this purpose. i urge the council to move. we now have surpluses from 2013 and with amending budgets 2, 3 and 4 a solution could be found that would cost the member states only eur 105 million. but i think it is much more important that we not only look at what ad hoc solutions there are in terms of crisis intervention, but that we have to come to more structural policy solutions, and that means that we need to revise the multiannual financial framework. we greens have always pointed out that the payments are too low. that is why we did not agree to this mff. we clearly need a revision so that the payment ceilings can be adjusted. and we need a new system of own resources.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if we have 140 billion euros of outstanding payments in the cohesion policy programme alone, then it is foreseeable that there will be delays in funding decisions and payments. the council cannot always reduce payments and at the same time accumulate commitments. this leads to supplementary budgets which are contrary to the principles of sound budgetary management. many in this house appreciate the council's efforts to curb some of the excessive activity of the commission and also of parts of parliament. but now it is a question of not damaging europe's reputation. we want to remain a reliable partner for our regions, research institutes and businesses. the council must now make its contribution and increase payments at least temporarily. but the commission must also deliver. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budget is properly managed. the recovery system must be accelerated. i call for a revision of the n+3 rule. some member states need to learn that european funding is not an endless story. and last but not least, we must ask ourselves much more seriously whether european spending does not have to be linked to european added value. instead of the principle of the watering can and waste of funds, we must focus much more on regional policy and agricultural policy in particular. this also helps to save money. i would like to say to the members on the right that we are not getting anywhere with general insults and superficial criticism. i would like to invite you to go into the details of the budget debate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have a very worrying situation with 223 billion in outstanding ral commitments. i wonder if the 2014-2020 budget will ever come into force. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as a member state, you cannot do anything but represent the presidency of the council. that's why we're counting on you, and counting on you to put an end to this worrying situation. we have now set aside one billion euros for research for 2015. this is an untenable situation. i believe that if we transfer funds to the structural funds, we will be much better off in terms of growth and employment than we have been so far. i have also found a place where money is left: the staff regulations came into force this year with corresponding restrictions on the subject of promotions. but the money on the line acts as if those restrictions don't exist. i hear that all the eu institutions are distributing this remaining money, so to speak, freely. i would therefore ask all the eu institutions to do their homework here and to give us the data on what money is actually available there.
i have to say, madam president, as a member of the european parliament for the family party in germany, i am appalled by the very entertaining statements. aggressors are sacrificed here. it is a shame that palestine is being promoted in this way, for a palestine that does not exist. the security of israel must be of the utmost importance to us europeans. israel has undoubtedly the international, political and moral right to protect its people from over 1 300 rocket attacks so far. and they're not protecting themselves indiscriminately, but they're trying to target the aggressors. the most densely populated civilian areas of the gaza strip - from there they fire on jerusalem, tel aviv, ramat gan and many other israeli cities. for the first time ever, long-range weapons are being used. on average, people in israel have 15 seconds to escape the missile strike into shelters. for days, they've been living in fear to get themselves, their families, their children to safety. we're on a minute-by-minute rocket warning. i'm not sure how the weapons get to hamas. but i am convinced that it is sometimes supported by eu funds ... (the president cut the speaker off) (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i am well aware that there are victims here who need to be mourned. because children are dying on the palestinian side too. on the other hand, i do not know why israel is always blamed for everything. there are millions of palestinians who are really languishing in camps in jordan. nobody here cares about that! why is israel always blamed? israel is a country with a warfare system that is unmatched anywhere in the world. it is a disgrace to call israel an aggressor when we do so in the european parliament.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i'd like to take a step back and ask, where does this come from? how did we get into this situation? in palestine a unity government was formed in april, but the president of that unity government was unable to travel to the gaza strip. abu mazen did not drive into the gaza strip. why would you do that? because he's afraid of hamas. there seems to me to be little unity and little government there. then three teenagers are kidnapped. hamas has not distanced itself from this kidnapping and murder. there was a terrible revenge murder, the perpetrators are on trial in israel. since july 8th, over 1,300 rockets have been fired at israel. as frédérique ries said, no country in the world can accept this, no country can tolerate this! none of the countries in which we are elected would tolerate a thousand missiles hitting our territory! what are the israelis doing? they're fighting back, they're fighting back hard. but they are trying to disguise a hamas path, namely the human shield, by warning people: we know the weapons depots are under schools. we know the weapons depots are under hospitals. go, leave these buildings! and yes, you can move around in gaza, even if it's not that small, dear mrs auken. then a ceasefire is reached under egyptian mediation. egypt has been a difficult partner lately, but they have mediated here, and this ceasefire is accepted by israel, but not by hamas! yeah, why not? on the contrary, hamas says: 'no, we will continue to intensify this fight!' what, for god's sake, is hamas's goal, if not aggression, terror and the destruction of israel? the way out is obvious: hamas must accept the ceasefire. but beyond that, hamas must finally accept israel's right to a secure existence. it is only when the threat to israel is gone that the arguments of the israeli hardliners, the israeli hawks, who do exist, will be withdrawn, and hopefully we will be closer to a peaceful solution at some point. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you for asking. i didn't say there was evidence. but with the horrific murder of three teenagers, one would expect an organization like hamas, which exercises governmental authority over a territory that has some responsibility, to clearly distance itself from such a thing. but she didn't! so all i can say is: until i hear that, i think hamas is at least partly responsible. as for the other question, i wish for peace. the oslo accords were an experiment. we must continue to work on this, and the resolution is a very small contribution here. other proposals have been made. but i think in the end it's because hamas has to recognize israel's right to exist in security.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i'm not going to let you go. they list a whole lot of wrongs that have allegedly been done to palestinians. it would be nice if you could list in the same way what the palestinians have done to the israelis, to really see that these measures are not an aggressor measure, but that they are protective measures. could you make that list, too?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it seems to me that this debate - and it is not the first - is a bit sub-complex. this may also be because it is virtually impossible to write a meaningful contribution to conflict resolution in one or two minutes in this plenary. i have had a lot of exchanges in the last few years on both sides with people in israel, also with people in the palestinian territories. i am convinced that it will not help all these people and the conflict at all if you simply transfer it to the plenary of the european parliament, if everyone takes their own position - which is relatively easy - and then retreats and tries to convince the others that one side is right and the other is wrong. it's far too sub-complex. both societies - both palestinian and israeli - are very diverse. there are no terrorists among the palestinians, so to speak, and there are no right-wing israelis who think that it is best not to grant any rights to the palestinians. this is total bullshit. i think it is important that this house finally addresses this complexity and talks about who the partners for peace are on both sides, engages with these partners and plays a supporting role as a parliament rather than one that simply transports and reflects the conflict.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. today's debate concerns the future prosecution of military and political leaders for the crime of aggressive war, and that on the eve of tomorrow's international day of justice, and today also here after a debate on the situation in iraq, in the middle east. unfortunately, the list could go on and on. the political heart of the question is as follows. for the international criminal court to be able to act on the case from 2017, 30 signatory states to the rome statute must have ratified and transposed the 2010 compromise into national law. two thirds of the time, 14 ratifications have been deposited, eight of them from eu member states. even if you take into account the 11 eu member states which are at different stages of preparing for ratification, there are still nine not exactly small member states which are not moving i ask: do not want to move? i think the situation is unacceptable. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. i expect a clear programme from the high representative and a concrete timetable on how long it will take to remedy this situation.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the 2010 kampala review conference on the international criminal court unanimously adopted the proposal to criminalize the conduct of aggressive warfare in the future. the international criminal court, which has been responsible for prosecuting war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide, is now also to punish the crime of aggression. the conditions for the exercise of the right of veto are that the act of aggression is manifestly contrary to the charter of the united nations in its nature, gravity and extent. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, and it is not the commission's intention to take any action to combat it. in our resolution we call on the eu to adopt a common position on the crime of aggression and to make active efforts to achieve the necessary 30 ratifications. so far, 14 countries have ratified, including eight eu member states. and all eu member states that have not yet ratified are urged to do so immediately. on 1 september this year we will commemorate the 75th anniversary of the nazi german attack on poland, an aggressive war which led directly to the second world war - with all the resulting crimes against peace, crimes against humanity and war crimes. the nuremberg war crimes trials also included the crime of aggressive war, and i would like to quote from the opening speech of the us chief prosecutor, robert jackson, in november 1945: 'but the last step in preventing periodic wars, which are inevitable in the face of international lawlessness, is to hold statesmen accountable before the law. and let me be very clear: this law is applied here only to german attackers. but it does include, and must, if it is to be of any use, condemn the attack of every other nation, not except those who are now sitting in this court. other to wage a war of aggression is no ordinary crime. it is, as the nuremberg war crimes tribunal stated in its 1946 judgment, the greatest international crime of all, because it includes the sum total of all the evils of all other war crimes.
member of the commission. - madam president, honourable members, we remain concerned about the situation in nigeria, where a series of violent attacks continue to terrorise the population. the high representative, cathy ashton, has strongly condemned the indiscriminate killing of hundreds of civilians and the abduction of more than 200 schoolgirls in borno state. we continue to call for the immediate and unconditional release of the schoolgirls and for those responsible to be brought to justice. our thoughts are also with the families of the girls, who are desperate to see their children return home safely. the violence in nigeria has taken a heavy toll on the population. since 2009 the insurgencies has cost nearly 5 000 lives, displaced close to half a million people, destroyed hundreds of schools and government buildings and devastated an already-weak economy in the north-east. most worryingly, since the beginning of this year attacks have occurred on an almost daily basis and since january alone between 1 500 and 2 000 innocent people have been killed. the eu listed boko haram as a terrorist organisation last month, one day after their designation by the un, demonstrating the eu’s firm and determined condemnation of the group’s unacceptable criminal activities which touch upon both christians and muslims. the root causes of violence and radicalisation will continue to be addressed through the european development fund. the new fund will focus its activities in particular in the north of the country, supporting the health and energy sectors. the eu is also present in nigeria with humanitarian assistance under echo providing eur 5 million to the north-eastern states, particularly in response to the on-going food and nutrition crisis. on the political tack, human rights remain at the top of our agenda with nigeria, including in our regular ministerial dialogues. possible human rights abuses perpetrated by the nigeria military have to be investigated and those responsible brought to justice. the eu stands with the people and government of nigeria in the fight against terrorism and violence, and for the rule of law and human rights. we are working with the nigerian authorities to help bring an end to the cycle of violence through many actions, including continuous political dialogue and targeted aid interventions focusing on the underlying root causes of violence.
the next item is the vote. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
mr wieland, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the president of parliament is the external representative of the european parliament, as stated in rule 22 (4) of our rules of procedure. we shall be voting on parliament's positions together, and we shall win or lose. but as democrats, we accept the results. president schulz represented parliament at the council summit in brussels yesterday. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the resolution by mr vital moreira, a socialist, on ttip also received a large majority. if our president himself does not take our decisions seriously, then we need not be surprised if the council, the commission or the sceptics of europe do not take us seriously either. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause from the centre)
i thank you very much, mr caspary. we will follow up on this.
mr president, i ask the bureau to consider whether we cannot set up a committee to check the correct representation of the decisions of this house, which will be watching the president's fingers 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. (applause from the centre)
the commission is not prepared to accept this. we had the vote on amendment no 9, which was adopted. the text under paragraph 8 is therefore obsolete. you have just read an oral amendment which you have tabled for paragraph 8. but he's not the man for the job. you wanted to table an amendment to paragraph 12. the oral amendments concern paragraph 12 not paragraph 8. paragraph 8 was dropped. do you want to move an amendment to paragraph 12? before the vote on amendment no 11:
mr mayer, i have to say that i am very pleased. i'd like to try. but you'll soon find that colleagues will grumble when things go too slow. because if you need ten minutes more, everyone is waiting for the plane, and i will do it at the pace that has been set in the last parliament. you also have well-prepared voting lists from your staff.
i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer. we'll check and correct that.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
carlos jiménez villarejo has notified in writing his resignation as a member of the european parliament with effect from 1 august 2014. in accordance with article 4 (3) of the crp, parliament shall determine the seat's availability from that date and inform the national authority concerned thereof.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i support its basic thrust, the commitment to democracy, the rule of law and self-determination. the resolution, however, lacks the following points: the crimea was given away in 1954 in a state arbitrary act and without the consent of the predominantly russian-speaking population. 2. the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of another state shall be observed by all other states. the ukrainian government is determined to combat right-wing extremist groups involved in the maidan coup. 4. the right of peoples to self-determination and the right of ethnic groups to seek a change in national borders by peaceful means shall be respected. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. the government is obliged, if it wishes to preserve the territorial integrity of ukraine, to hold talks with those who seek secession by peaceful means.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i wanted to explain my vote on that. i rejected this resolution because it does not take into account the essential aspect of the distortion of competition within the european union, namely the fact that the common currency has massively hampered the competitiveness of the southern european countries in particular and that this hampering of competitiveness has led to unemployment and particularly youth unemployment. this major obstacle to economic development should also have been emphasized.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if you are still here. as a newly elected member, i am a little surprised that there are not ten people in the chamber at a meeting scheduled for 2 p.m. i voted for the resolution on iraq, but i think we are not getting anywhere with the resolution statements. the whole region is destabilised and i wonder what has this war of the americans and their allies brought about if today people are being persecuted again, if christians are being persecuted, if people are being tortured and mistreated? a whole region is destabilised and given this situation, more needs to be done there. the greatest oil reserves are in this region, and we do not yet know whether tomorrow sharia will be the rule or whether the values of the christian west will continue to be represented.
i should like to say that the explanations of vote are there for individual members after the votes so that they can explain why they voted. this part of the plenary session is not designed to be listened to by every member of the house. it's common knowledge. i'm explaining this because the audience up there reacted. i would also like to say explicitly that it is not customary in the parliament of my country, nor in this parliament, for there to be votes of approval or disapproval from the visitors' stands. mr voigt, there will be no debate on this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for this motion. but the proposal doesn't go far enough. in the debate yesterday, mr lambsdorff spoke in particular of israel's right of self-defence. i think it is necessary to add here that a country like palestine, which has been occupied for four decades, which is divided, around which a wall is being built, this country, where hundreds of thousands and tens of thousands are sitting in refugee camps in neighboring countries, of course also has the right to self-defense. but i hope that peace will soon come to the region and that we will contribute to it with our resolutions and perhaps also with active political action, but always taking both sides into account and not just one.
the explanations of vote are closed. i wish all my colleagues who are still here a safe return home and a relaxing summer break. i would like to thank in particular the services here on the left, on the right and behind me, and in particular the interpreters in the cabins. you've earned yourself a summer break. you have a good trip home, too. mr valli has also spoken on the rules of procedure.
mr valli, i have to say that i am very pleased. you're new, so i didn't take your word for it. you have not reported to the rules of procedure. that was a general political statement. you're also paid to follow the rules.
does anyone else have a point of order, but only on the rules of procedure?
mr kelly! it is well known that you are from ireland. but this is not a general debate.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 12.30 p.m.)
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 17 july 2014.
i have the sad announcement that our former member ian paisley passed away last friday at the age of 88. he was a member of this parliament for 25 years from 1979 and at the end of his career was first minister of northern ireland. ladies and gentlemen, i should like to inform you that several colleagues have brought this to my attention: in these minutes we are again receiving dramatic reports of refugee accidents in the mediterranean. 250 refugees are reported to have died in a boating accident off the coast of libya. 36 can possibly be saved, but there are probably 250 dead. a tragedy occurred off malta, possibly killing 500 people. i am sharing this because we have a moral duty to do everything we can to prevent the kind of humanitarian disaster that we certainly cannot afford. ladies and gentlemen, i told you last week and i will repeat it now, that on wednesday, just before the vote, there will be a so-called 360-degree recording. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is not left in the lurch. you know that. once a 360-degree image is taken. i would ask you all to be there because for many people who use the modern technical facilities, this is a way of seeing where you are as a member of parliament or as a member of this house, where you are. our visitors to the parliament's visitor centre will also be able to find all their members individually. so, wednesday at noon, 360-degree shot!
i now ask your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to an important formality which i must read to you in full for reasons of legal certainty. so, make yourself comfortable, it's gonna take a while. as i already informed you by e-mail on 5 september, we will elect a new ombudsman in accordance with rule 219 of the rules of procedure. i would now like to explain to you the procedure for the election. on 2 september 2014, a call for applications was published in the official journal. the deadline for submitting applications is 30 september. in accordance with rule 219 (2) of the rules of procedure, candidates must satisfy a number of conditions. i would just like to remind you of the provisions that directly affect you: each candidate must be supported by at least 40 members from at least two member states. it is not possible to support several candidates at the same time. if a member supports several candidates with his signature, his signature shall not be valid for any of these candidates, which could have the consequence that such a candidate is not admissible. once i have received a nomination, it is no longer possible to add a signature in support or withdraw a signature. so once you've made up your mind, you've made up your mind. in accordance with rule 219 (3) of the rules of procedure, i shall forward to the committee on petitions the nominations which meet all the criteria laid down. the commission will probably organise hearings of the candidates in december. these hearings of the committee on petitions shall be open to all members. the election will take place during the january 2015 plenary session. the services of the directorate-general for the presidency are of course at your disposal for any further questions.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 11 september 2014 in accordance with rule 149 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendment was proposed to this draft: wednesday: the alde group requests that a debate on statements by the council and the commission on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in hungary be included as the first item on the agenda for wednesday afternoon. i call mrs in't feld to the stand.
the next item is the request for an oral reply to the commission on the impact of the ban on imports of agricultural products and foodstuffs from the eu by the russian federation on european agriculture by mr czesław adam siekierski, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development (o-000063/2014 - b8-0032/2014) - ((2014/2835 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, thank you very much for creating this opportunity to debate an important subject which is of concern to the european commission, namely the impact of this russian embargo on the european agricultural and agri-food sector and on the european market. the embargo imposed by russia at the beginning of august affects three major agricultural sectors in the union: fruit and vegetables, milk and meat. to put things in context, i would point out that russia is the second largest export market for the european agri-food sector and that exports to russia account for about 10% of the european union's exports. but for some sectors, and in particular for the sectors mentioned, the russian market represents about a third of what the european union exports, namely mainly fruit and vegetables and dairy products and sometimes even meat. the exports covered by the embargo amount to eur 5 billion and affect the incomes of millions of farmers in the european union. we are therefore faced with a european crisis to which a proportionate but coherent and effective response must be given. the tools of the reformed common agricultural policy which we adopted together a few years ago give us the means to react in a coherent, united and rapid manner. that is why i decided to act quickly, as soon as these measures were announced in august, and in particular on three fronts. firstly, our aim was to avoid destabilising the european market by products which would no longer be exported and which would risk returning to the european market and thus causing price falls. a second objective of the measures envisaged was to support european industries in their search for new markets. although we are aware that this may take time, it is important to give a signal and support to producers as soon as possible so that they can start diversifying their export markets. the third objective of our measures was to open the debate on the question of possible targeted compensation, as the sector is asking for and as the question you have raised mentions, taking into account of course the political and financial implications of the compensation we may envisage. as regards the first package of measures, namely the rapid stabilisation of the market following the russian decision, the commission opted for immediate responses in the two sectors most directly affected by the russian decision, namely the fruit and vegetables sector and the dairy sector. for these two sectors, exports to russia, as i have already said, represent about a third of total european exports. fruit and vegetables were the first priority, since we have perishable products which cannot be stored and for which solutions had to be found quickly in order to avoid falling prices and thus the loss of income for all fruit and vegetable producers at european level. measures were introduced on 11 august for the peaches and nectarines sector and a week later, on 18 august, we were able to offer a wider package for other particularly perishable fruits and vegetables of which russia was a key buyer. these exceptional measures had a budget of eur 125 million, with a ceiling of eur 82 million for apples and pears and a ceiling of eur 43 million for a number of other fruits and vegetables. we have calculated this amount on the basis in particular of the quantities exported to russia which we assumed would have to be withdrawn from the market in some way, but we have also provided for an additional margin in case there might be indirect effects. we therefore proposed measures to withdraw products from the market by encouraging free distribution, but also measures to harvest green or not to harvest certain products that could not be sold. since the notifications from the member states covering the period from 18 august to 3 september for the envisaged operations exceeded those ceilings, the commission had to decide, in accordance with the delegated act, to suspend that measure. i can assure you, as i have already announced publicly, that we do not intend to stop there, we are aware that there will be other products that we will have to target in the fruit and vegetable sector. the commission is preparing a new measure for this sector, which i hope we will be able to announce as soon as this week. my services are now working with other commission services to put forward this proposal which will, i can assure you, be equally substantial in the light of market realities. this will probably be a more targeted measure to avoid unjustified notifications. as regards the dairy sector, as soon as the first signs of an impact on this sector appeared, i decided to activate the safety net provided for in the regulation on the management of markets, supplemented by exceptional measures. aid is now available for the private storage of dairy products which can be stored: butter, skimmed milk powder and certain cheeses. in parallel with this private storage which has been triggered we have also decided to extend public intervention until the end of the year for milk powder and butter, which was normally due to end on 30 september, in case products had to be withdrawn from the market. the situation in the meat sector is more nuanced, since russia had already placed european pigmeat under embargo since the beginning of the year, due to swine fever in certain regions of the european union. operators have partly found new outlets in asia, alongside domestic production which has been limited as a result. in the beef sector, production and consumption have been in structural decline for some time, which may lead to a certain fragility of the sector and market equilibrium, despite growing global demand. the closure of the russian market requires an intensification of the ongoing efforts to open other markets which remain closed due to unjustified health barriers and which could also provide a response for this sector in the medium term. i have asked my services to monitor this meat sector closely. if the market situation in prices or producer margins shows signs of destabilisation, we are also prepared to react, since we have the necessary instruments. i would also like to say that the commission is constantly examining, sector by sector, the development of the markets and the impact of the measures taken. i have decided to set up a task force within dg agri at the beginning of august to monitor this market. since august we have been holding weekly meetings with experts from the member states in order to monitor market developments and to take decisions on this basis as quickly as possible. this rapid reaction by the commission was made possible in particular by the delegated powers which the legislator parliament and the council granted to the commission in the context of the cap reform. as you will recall, we discussed with some of you the need for the commission to react quickly in a crisis situation. the fact that we were able to react quickly proves that what we decided in the cap reform on the market management part seems to be working, because by taking immediate action we are limiting both the cost to the budget and the losses to the producers. in addition to these immediate market management measures, we must also prepare for the future. that is why we are now paying particular attention to research into new markets, particularly promotion on markets outside the european union. the commission has therefore decided to double the budget for the financing of the promotional programmes which were foreseen for a project session which is due to end on 30 september. we had originally planned european funding of eur 30 million for these packages under the promotion programme. we have added another 30 million, which makes a community contribution of 60 million, plus private funding. we will therefore have a package of €120 million which will be able to finance promotion measures fairly quickly and help the agri-food sector to move to other markets. what action does the commission intend to take in the future? in addition to these market stabilization measures which we have taken and which we can take if necessary, we are also considering the possibility of granting targeted compensation to producers, in particular to avoid the disappearance of agricultural enterprises which would be perfectly profitable in a normal market situation, and of course the jobs associated with them. this question of compensation involves a real political discussion, since we must examine two elements in particular: firstly, how to target the categories of beneficiaries who could obtain these compensations since we must address those who really need them, those who are really affected, by category of holdings but also by sector; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the compensation is covered by the budget. some of you have asked for these measures to be financed not from the cap budget but from other budgets. i would like to say to you - and my colleague in charge of the budget will probably also have the opportunity to say this - that we cannot do otherwise than within the budget provided by the legislator. you know that the budgetary margins we have are very limited. we are using the margins we have in the cap budget. we also have this crisis reserve. we must therefore have this political discussion to see not only where these compensations should go but also how they should be financed, given the budgetary constraints and budgetary limitations. the commission believes that this decision should be taken as soon as possible, since for financial compensation to be useful it must reach farmers quickly. i would like to avoid the situation we had during the milk crisis in 2009, when financial compensation for milk producers was decided a year after the crisis: for some producers the money arrived too late. in the coming months, depending on the impact assessment we are going to do with the member states, but in a targeted way, this decision will have to be taken. i would like to say that the commission is open to this, but we need the political debate we have to have on the budget allocation to support this type of measure. these are the issues i wanted to put to your analysis, to your debate and of course depending on the questions you ask and other issues you raise, i will be ready to answer at the end.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to start by pointing out that today's discussion is a consequence of the illegal annexation of crimea by putin and russia and also of the unspoken war that russia is waging against ukraine. the response of the eu and western countries was, thank god, not tanks and soldiers, but boycotts against putin and his regime. russia was expected to respond with countermeasures. the boycott of food from the european union and other partner countries has different effects. there are countries and areas that are very affected. i thank the commission, and especially you, commissioner cioloș, for your swift response and for announcing aid for the farmers and businesses concerned. you just listed a whole bar of measures. the baltic states, poland and a number of other countries are particularly in need of urgent aid. it is now necessary to help in a very specific way, not by a one-pot approach. the budgetary resources are certainly not sufficient to help at least where a situation has arisen which threatens the existence of the community through no fault of its own. the situation shows that the eu budget has allocated far too little for crisis situations. we need some changes in the budget. i 'm a farmer , too . if the funds are not sufficient, the solidarity of all farmers is also required to help their fellow workers whose existence is threatened by direct payments. the behaviour of large retail chains, which immediately abused the russian boycott measures and exerted price pressure on food producers, is particularly reprehensible. it is interesting that the eu consumers are the beneficiaries of the boycott measures, as food prices are falling. it is therefore also responsible for using taxpayers' money to help those affected so that they do not endanger their existence. (the speaker agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr deiss, do you not agree that the member states should now be allowed to activate their national aid programmes? we need the approval of brussels for this, including consolidation loans, liquidity loans and aid programmes. secondly, is it not time to de-bureaucratize the school milk and school fruit programmes so that we can get more products into schools?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you very much, dear colleague peter jahr! of course, before asking for help from brussels, it is necessary that all national programmes be applied for and used up. you've already pointed out some measures, there are others: there are many measures that can be taken to reduce the tax burden on those affected. it would be particularly important, commissioner cioloș, that the school milk and school fruit programme be really massively de-bureaucratised. this would be a good way to find a quick market for fruit and vegetables and also for dairy products. many do not apply this programme because it is far too bureaucratic. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation is not exacerbated.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i should like to begin by thanking the commission for taking swift action. the european union must be able to take action. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a mere spectator in the world of the world of the media. the commission's action in this area is therefore to be welcomed. there are differences in the degree of concern in the member states. of course, the baltic states, poland and others are the most affected, but so are producers of southern fruit who have lost their markets. but of course all this applies now to a situation of falling prices which was already there before. but we are now virtually obliged to see that farmers are not left alone. stabilizing markets is one measure. but i warn you that we are now exporting our problems to other countries, so to speak, and sending surpluses to places where they are not wanted. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we must also look carefully at where the aid is going now. it is also apparently because the commission has suspended it for the time being. it is necessary to look twice at who is really in need and who is getting the money. there are some foot-dragging people in this area, and we can't be paying out money to people who may not need it. we also need policies to prevent trade from capitalizing on this and pushing prices down even further. i should also like to say a word about the export orientation of european agricultural policy. we in the green group have always warned against relying solely on exports, but we must look to the long term to serve the european market and not rely on such unreliable partners who will end up dragging us all together into the abyss. (the speaker agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i think you are confusing cause and effect. the aggressor must be clearly identified and the european union must act in solidarity against him. i believe that the european union has never shown such solidarity as it has in the case of sanctions. if there is a reaction, the european union must show solidarity. i would not say that there are people affected here in the european union, and that is why the european union's sanctions policy was wrong. on the contrary, how else could we have acted? the fact that there are now sectors such as farmers that are affected by this again requires our intra-european solidarity to mitigate the impact on those affected. i can only welcome the way the european union has acted.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to ask the commission a question. i am of course in agreement with the regret expressed here over the fate of the farmers who are suffering from the russian embargo, who are innocent victims of this russian embargo, and whose lives may be in danger. but my question is: did the commission not take this and other vulnerabilities of the european union into account when it developed sanctions, when it proposed sanctions? the council has not considered that these vulnerabilities exist and what the impact will be on european farmers or other economic groups affected? if this has been considered, why has the european parliament not been informed and has it not been informed from the outset of the possible compensatory measures to be taken in order to compensate for these burdens in a spirit of solidarity? i have the impression that there is a very holter-dipolter attempt at the moment to provide some kind of piece-work compensation mechanism, but that this is not part of a really well-thought-out strategy from the outset, and that it would have been necessary.
member of the commission. - madam president, there are many questions. i shall try to answer as many of them as possible in a synthetic way. firstly, some of you - and fortunately only some of you - are questioning the usefulness of the sanctions and whether the commission has foreseen the consequences of the decisions it has taken. i just want to point out - but you know this - that it was not the commission that took the sanctions against russia, it was the european union. and it was the council that clearly decided by a very large political majority. so i cannot comment further on this decision which has been taken and which has been assumed politically. what we have done with regard to the impact of the russian embargo is also to assume our responsibility as the european union towards the agricultural sector. some of you say that the commission has not reacted quickly enough. the embargo was decided on 7 august and on 11 august we already launched the first measure for the fisheries and nectarines sector, which was already affected, as some of you have said, even before the russian embargo, but whose situation was aggravated by it. so after only a few days, we took the first measurement, ten days after the big package for fruit and vegetables and then ten days later, again in august, the measurements for the dairy sector. i remember what i said in my introduction, it was the sector that was most affected. why have we only targeted some fruits and vegetables and not all? we targeted everything that fell under the category of "seasonal produce". i would remind you that everything we put on the list of products to be covered by intervention was agreed with the member states. we have already held the first meeting with the experts from the member states in mid-august and it was only after such meetings with the member states that we decided what the list should be. i made it clear when we took these first steps that if necessary further steps would follow. so citrus fruits, including tangerines, will be next on the list. there will also be more apples, there will be pears and other seasonal products which will be included in what the commission will propose. we have therefore taken account of the urgency and we have taken account, in terms of the envelope, of everything we considered necessary. you withheld 125 million euros because it was the figure that was most widely reported in the press. but before we mobilised the 125 million euro for fruit and vegetables, we had already mobilised 30 million euro for peaches and nectarines, which were therefore available to producers as from 11 august. in addition, there are measures for the dairy sector, for private storage, for which we have estimated the needs at about eur 30 million. but the private storage for cheese, butter and milk powder is still open. there, we have no limit, because that is the principle of this measure. we estimate needs but when the private storage measure is open for a certain period of time, we take into account everything that the producer decides to store and not sell. the producer decides to stock if he considers that the market price is too low. some people here have said that the measures are not enough for the dairy sector. we have mobilized all the measures we have in the safety nets and which are available to producers. they decide whether to use them or not, depending on the market. i conclude that the commission acted quickly, as quickly as possible, that it acted in a proportionate way since the amount we have proposed, for example, for fruit and vegetables is eur 125 million plus eur 30 million for peaches and nectarines. i remind you that this is the estimate of the value of what we had exported to russia and which had to be withdrawn. when we take it off the market, when we don't use that production in industry, we cover the cost of that withdrawal. i would also point out that we have mainly emphasized free distribution in the withdrawal from the market. some of you have put forward different ideas on what should be done at european level for this free distribution to the most deprived. producers, and in particular producer organisations, are free to use any quantity of all the products they withdraw for free distribution. for all products withdrawn and distributed free of charge, the financial compensation provided for in the regulation is 100% european funding. only products which are withdrawn and used for composting or biodegradation require co-financing from producers. so we have clearly encouraged free distribution and the member states are free to do so, as the regulation of the legislator, namely the council and parliament, provides for this. it is the member states who implement the free school fruit and vegetables and milk scheme and member states are therefore free to use whatever margin they have to increase the quantities of free distribution. we have also done our utmost to ensure that the products withdrawn are distributed free of charge. it was an emergency and we acted quickly and proportionately. as regards budgetary allocations, as i was saying, we are preparing for the next few days - i hope to be able to announce this week - a new package of measures for fruit and vegetables, which will take account of a substantial new envelope calculated on the basis of the realities on the ground. tomorrow we will have another meeting with the member states to discuss these proposals. we will then announce the new package of measures which will include the other seasonal products, some of which you have mentioned. what will we do next if the embargo is extended? in some way, beyond the urgent measures we have taken, we must also consider diversifying our markets even further. but the most important thing we can do is encourage the producers, because they decide where they sell. you can't force them to sell in one place and not sell in another. what we can do is to provide them with the means to look for new markets. we are considering promotional and communication measures, but also commercial diplomacy. the current commission will do everything in its power until the end of its mandate to try to open up other markets to which access is now restricted for exports of european products for phytosanitary reasons. i'll take care of it myself. commissioner karel de gucht, who is here, has already started this process and i know he will continue it. we will conduct these measures in parallel. some of you have said that perhaps we should strengthen consumption in the internal market. we have the means for promotion and communication in the internal market too. i would remind you that parliament and the council recently adopted a regulation in june. this was in fact the mandate of the previous parliament, which adopted a new european regulation for the promotion of agri-food products. we will thus increase the budget for promotion between 2014 and 2020, both on the internal market and on the external market. so that's what we're looking at going forward. first, to ensure that for products which cannot be resold, particularly perishable products, we have immediate solutions. and for next year, farmers will know what the market situation is and they will make decisions about production, type of production, targeting of markets based on the situation of the embargo whether it continues or not. but as far as our exports to russia are concerned, i think we have the means to gradually shift this production to other markets. as regards the budget, many of you have said that the budget is not enough and that the commission must put in more money. it has even been suggested that not a few hundred million euros should be allocated, but a billion euros. but we will put in two billion euros, three billion euros if the member states give this money to the commission. i would remind you that the commission has no money. it manages a budget decided by the legislators. if, in the 2014-2020 budgetary perspective, the decision was to reduce the budget and, in particular, to reduce the commission's payment margins, it cannot go beyond that. in recent weeks the commission has tried to manage the emergency by allocating the necessary money. it's not because we didn't have enough money that we put in the total of 180 million euros so far. that is because, according to our estimates with the member states, that is the amount we have deemed necessary. but we have always said that we are prepared to provide more. we'll do it in the next few days. but compensation will clearly have to go beyond the margins available to the commission in the budget and mobilise the crisis reserve. why have we not yet mobilised the crisis reserve? because it wasn't necessary as long as we had margins in the budget that we had decided to use. this is the principle of what is called sound management, the efficient management of the budget. we are using the margins first and then, if necessary, we are using the crisis reserve. i do believe that we will need to mobilise it in order, in particular, to cover compensatory measures which we, the present commission or the next commission, will have to discuss. in any case, we take responsibility. that is why the crisis reserve has not been mobilised, but there is nothing to prevent it from being mobilised and, if necessary, we will of course do so. you say we need fairer distribution criteria. we have very clear criteria and, with the proposals we will make in the next few days for the fruit and vegetables sector, they will be even clearer to avoid abuse and notifications which are not tenable in the light of the realities on the ground. some of you have spoken about the indirect impact of this russian embargo. thus, the affected states are not only those exporting to russia, namely the baltic states, finland, poland, but also spain, italy, belgium, the netherlands, which are also affected both directly and indirectly. we are taking this indirect impact into account by proposing market measures for all member states and not just for the member states affected. but, of course, we did it in a proportionate way. as regards the fisheries sector - some of you have raised this question - i can tell you on behalf of my colleague, mrs maria damanaki, that she has already started discussions with the member states and the fisheries sector. evaluations are underway to see what kind of measures we will need to mobilise. but clearly we cannot compare the impact on the agricultural sector and the impact on the fisheries sector. in agriculture, the impact on our exports was in the order of billions of euros, while in the fisheries sector it was - if i am not mistaken - in the order of some 100 million euros. if it is necessary for the fisheries sector, we will take action, but of course we have given priority to the most important sector, the agricultural sector. some of you have called for the sanctions on milk quotas to be lifted. in my view, it would be totally counterproductive to lift the milk sanctions and have even more milk on the market when we already have a surplus because of this russian embargo. therefore, i do not think at all that in the present situation the right thing to do is to lift the sanctions on quotas and open the tap for production. i'm going to stop here because i feel like i've answered all the questions. there were more specific questions which i am prepared to discuss with those of you who are interested, particularly the more technical ones, on the withdrawal price, on co-financing, etc. i thank you very much for your support of the measures taken by the commission and i hope that i can count on the same support in the future.
mr wojciechowski, on the rules of procedure, but please only on the rules of procedure.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i can't allow another debate entry. that is not the point of the rules. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on trade with the euromed countries (2014/2836 ((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. the human rights situation in egypt is deteriorating. of course we have to work with the government there and stay in touch and try to exert our influence to make this bad situation better. however, the continuation of the dcfta negotiations is more than just a contact, it is more than just a technical discussion. they mean that we ignore the many serious human rights violations and support the government, give it international recognition. this is a real slap in the face for all those who are suffering from the current human rights violations. i would therefore ask you, commissioner, whether you will suspend the negotiations until progress is made in the field of human rights in egypt or until at least the will to do so is shown.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have heard a lot about fundamental rights and fundamental values in europe. i wonder why the commission does not report on what is happening in the mediterranean countries with regard to the state of israel. the united nations puts the number of children killed since july 2014 at 500. israel has also bombed at least 244 schools, including 45 united nations schools. in view of this flagrant breach of international law, and in particular of the geneva convention on the protection of civilians in time of war, the neighbourhood agreement with israel should be suspended, or at least it should be debated whether the israelis cannot be similarly induced by sanctions to hold the guilty to account and possibly to hand them over to the international court of justice in the hague.
member of the commission. - mr president, let me try to answer a number of questions that have been raised, some of them repeatedly. first of all, there were a number of questions on egypt and the question as to whether we should negotiate a deep and comprehensive free trade agreement (dcfta) at all, given the current human rights abuses. the council gave the commission a negotiating mandate for a dcfta with egypt in 2011. the actual launch of negotiations depends on the completion of a preparatory scoping process which has barely even started, so launching negotiations will depend on a joint decision by the eu and egypt, and the commission will keep parliament informed in real time. it is very difficult to suspend something that has not yet started. as with any other prospective trade agreement, the commission has commissioned an external consultant to undertake a trade sustainability impact assessment. this will examine the potential economic, social and environmental impact of an agreement. it will include a specific chapter on implications in the field of human rights, and on the side-lines of the union for the mediterranean trade ministerial conference on 30 september i will have a bilateral meeting with the egyptian minister. on morocco, we launched dcfta negotiations in march 2013. they have progressed well in the course of the four negotiating sessions that have already been held and both sides share the common objective of concluding a dcfta as soon as possible. of course we will have to take into consideration mutual interests and priorities. morocco has decided to launch accompanying studies on certain sectors that will be covered by the future dcfta. morocco has agreed with its business sector and civil society to take into consideration the results of these studies during the next negotiating rounds. in that context we have therefore agreed to postpone the fifth round of negotiations. however, there is no suspension of negotiations. technical contacts will continue during this period to ensure the continuity of the negotiating process. the union for the mediterranean trade ministerial conference will be an opportunity for further discussion with the moroccan trade minister. i hope that we can resume the formal negotiations this year and that we will be in a position to conclude them next year. the dcfta negotiations with morocco are politically important since they will set a precedent for other partners in the regions such as tunisia, jordan and egypt. on israel, the eu has a very clear position on the illegality of israeli settlements. therefore we have already ensured that products originating in the israeli settlements do not benefit from preferential treatment when entering the eu market. an additional step is to follow the practice of certain member states and further clarify the labelling of these products so that consumers are fully aware, when making their choice, that the product originates in israel or in an israeli settlement. the commission, together with the european external action service, is gradually revising existing legislation on mandatory labelling, mostly for agricultural products, and has started the preparation of more general guidelines on the labelling of these products in order to help member states to implement existing legislation on voluntary labelling. more generally, on a number of remarks that have been made about the principle of ‘more for more’, let me say that in all these dcftas and in the mandates for negotiating them, as in other trade agreements, meaningful reciprocal commitments on human rights will be included. in fact, we want to use these agreements to promote a strong human rights agenda. the dcfta mandates were adopted on an individual basis to reflect the ‘more for more’ principle. on a political point, regarding ‘more for more’, what it means is more aid and more investment if more is done on political reform. what it also means is that we ourselves have to open our markets to the partner countries. this is not always easy to do in the context of these agreements, and member states are not too flexible on the matter. on the other hand, i think we should also have a somewhat different approach in relation to visas, which is one of the very clear demands, and then, of course, the countries concerned should also agree to open their markets progressively. they have to assume their responsibilities: we also have to do that – in other words, the european union also needs to assume its responsibilities and introduce more flexibility with these countries than is presently the case.
the debate is closed. mrs morvai, i have just taken the trouble to give you a short written reply to what you have written to me. you will not be taking the floor on the rules of procedure. firstly, i made it clear that colleagues are not here just because they get time to speak in the catch-the-eye procedure, and secondly - i have already written this down here - i try to treat all colleagues equally fairly. i have had more colleagues speak this time than i can get to speak. i cannot say who i am going to take on half an hour in advance because that would not be in keeping with the character of the catch-the-eye procedure. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission by mr daniel caspary, mr christofer fjellner, mr salvatore cicu, mr santiago fisas ayxelà, mr gabrielius landsbergis, mr franck proust, mr godelieve quisthoudt-rowohl, mr tokia saïfi, mr adam szejnfeld, mr iuliu winkler, mr bendt bendtsen, mr reimer böge, mr seán kelly, mr gabriel mato, mr fernando ruas, mr józsef szájer, mr jarosław leszek wałęsa, mr pablo zalba bidegain, on behalf of the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and by ms emma mcclarkin, on behalf of the group of the european conservatives and reformists, on the aps+ (general preference scheme) and compliance with the convention on the minimum age for admission to employment: the case of bolivia (oj 2014 b6-0031/2014 - b7-0028/2014 )).
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. the new children and youth law gives children in bolivia rights that do not exist or are not implemented in most european union member states. children are independent legal subjects there. in my own country - germany - the implementation of the convention on the rights of the child is not yet as far as in bolivia. bolivia has chosen and found a way to involve the children directly in the drafting of the law instead of the guardianship. in line with ilo convention 138, bolivia has set itself the goal of developing society so that by 2020 no child has to work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. they even formed their own union to push for an end to their illegal status. that's accomplished. dangerous work remains prohibited under ilo convention 182. exceptions are possible for work carried out by children in need, but only if their right to education and health is not restricted. i mean, we should... (the president cut the speaker off)
member of the commission. - mr president, let me first of all say that the eu is not the monitoring body in this respect. we are not the monitoring body for the minimum age convention; that is the task of the international labour organisation (ilo) and we rely on the ilo’s report before taking the next steps. this is done to keep the generalised scheme of preferences (gsp+) objective because it grants tariff preferences unilaterally. however, you should not ignore the leveraging power of gsp+. our partners know that there are legal conditions and that if they are not met we can temporarily withdraw the benefits of the scheme. that is why we are in touch with the bolivian authorities to remind them not to take gsp+ status for granted. on the matter itself, at first sight it would seem that this law could be in contravention of ilo convention no 138, which stipulates 15 years as the minimum working age for children but allows developing countries, such as bolivia, to reduce that limit to 14 years. at the same time, ilo convention no 138 specifies that children between the ages of 13 and 15 – or 12 and 14 for developing countries – may do light work as long as it does not hinder their education or harm their health. bolivia ratified ilo convention no 138 in 1997. when the new law was adopted, vice-president álvaro garcía linera stated that the lower working age reflected the reality in bolivia, one of the poorest countries in south america. on the other hand, the bolivian law overall has been praised by unicef and by the bolivian ombudsman as reinforcing the protection of children, with the exception of two provisions lowering the working age. however, the ilo supervisory system has not yet been in a position to assess the compatibility of the law with convention no 138. the ilo committee of independent experts on the application of conventions and recommendations (ceacr) will assess the compatibility of the bolivian law with ilo standards in its november-december 2014 session. ceacr is the competent authority within the ilo to make such an assessment. the commission is fully aware of the issues raised in the european parliament questions and is taking the necessary steps to ensure that bolivia’s actions are fully in line with its gsp+ commitments. it has officially expressed its concerns in writing to the bolivian authorities and expects a reply by mid-september. we have not received it yet. similarly the commission is in contact with the ilo, seeking advice on the interpretation of the new bolivian law.
the debate is closed.
the next item on the agenda is the one-minute statement on important political questions (rule 163).
- i'm not going to. i would like to point out that we supply 24 official languages here, and if you use another language here, the interpreting booths are neither ready nor able to translate this. so if you want to be understood across the continent - and that's what this house of commons is for - please use one of the official languages of the european union.
that concludes this item.
mr president, dear olli rehn, i would like to thank you for your kind words. nothing against you! but i also miss martin schulz as president of the european parliament in this debate this morning. martin schulz has agreed with us on the fast track procedure for ratifying the entire association agreement. martin schulz wanted to link the two parliaments by video. it is also important that the council should listen to the criticisms of the present state of the ratification agreement and then hold this meeting with us. i find the absence of ashton and the absence of martin schulz unbearable.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - mr president, those who criticise the european project should realise that the benefits of the freedoms that we enjoy are not self-evident for everybody on our continent – peace with our neighbours, absence of threats to our sovereignty, open borders, democracy, rule of law, and prosperity. these achievements, which we tend to take for granted, are the long-standing aspirations of the people of ukraine. for many, they correspond with a future based on european values which, as europeans themselves, they share. they have paid a high price in the process since last november, and i am proud to be here today so that we can together take a historic step in ukraine’s political association and economic integration with the european union. much has happened since we were preparing for the vilnius summit one year ago. crimea, part of the sovereign territory of an independent ukraine, has been illegally annexed by russia in an act we will never recognise. furthermore, the territorial integrity of ukraine is being further challenged by rebels in the east, who are supported through the direct military involvement of russia. many hundreds have been killed in military action among people who had been living as peaceful neighbours only a year ago, but aggression does not pay. on the contrary, it has further united the ukrainian people behind the aspiration for a better future for their country. there is no time to rest. much remains to be done. the fragile ceasefire will need to be turned into a genuine peace. the courageous move by president poroshenko offers a real opportunity for lasting peace, but there are many challenges. direct fighting on the ground has become sporadic and prisoners are being freed, but unfortunately incidences of shelling and shooting continue. russian troops are still in ukraine; armed forces are using the ceasefire to redeploy and resupply; and large parts of the border remain outside of the control of the authorities, allowing a continuous flow of militants, arms and equipment into ukraine from russia. what can we do? our approach is threefold. firstly, we continue to give our full and active support for a sustainable political solution. secondly, we are maintaining pressure on russia through a gradual increase of individual and economic sanctions to try to make it alter its course of action and move towards a solution. and thirdly, we continue our support for ukraine’s sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity, and to help it overcome the difficulties it faces. my colleague commissioner oettinger is sparing no efforts to facilitate an agreement between russia and ukraine ensuring a fair price for gas deliveries and security of supply to the european union. we have also engaged with russia to discuss the effects on the russian economy of the implementation of the association agreement – including the dcfta – with a view to clarifying concerns and, where appropriate, identifying solutions. the deal reached on friday by my colleague commissioner karel de gucht is good news for de-escalation, and it has the potential to be a game-changer in the ongoing crisis. i will discuss this further in the next debate this morning. you are aware that the european union adopted a new package of restrictive measures with regard to russia last week on the basis of the mandate of the european council of 30 august. this was done in response to the increased inflow of fighters and weapons from the territory of the russian federation into eastern ukraine and the aggression by the russian armed forces on ukrainian soil over the past weeks, and in order to reinforce the effectiveness of existing measures. the new package includes, firstly, more individuals who are responsible for undermining the territorial integrity of ukraine, and secondly, economic and financial sanctions with regard to access to capital markets, defence, dual-use goods and sensitive technologies. we have always stressed that our restrictive measures are reversible and scalable; therefore, by the end of september, the member states will carry out a comprehensive review of the implementation of the peace plan and, in the light of the review, and if the situation on the ground so warrants, the sanctions may be amended, suspended or repealed – in whole or in part – depending, of course, also on developments in crimea. we have already expressed our strong support for the peace deal agreed in minsk; its implementation is a key to success. we need to learn from recent experience, from the failed attempts in geneva and berlin earlier this year, to pass from words to deeds in reaching a political solution, and to respect the ceasefire agreed in june. we call on the russian government to pass from verbal pledges to the implementation of commitments this time around and to ensure a genuine and a comprehensive implementation of the peace plan. as i have said, the implementation of the ceasefire agreement and the road map will be important for all further decisions on sanctions. today it is difficult to see if and how successfully european union relations with russia can continue under the label of the so-called strategic partnership. in the short term, much more effort is needed to reach a comprehensive conflict resolution in ukraine, and russia must show that it takes its commitments seriously. russia should prove in deeds its respect for international law and for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of its neighbours. as for the medium and long term, the european union and russia will need to further build their relations on shared interests with a view to engaging in dialogue, particularly in the fields of trade and investment, energy, science, cooperation in solving international crises and in responding to global challenges. in any case, the solution to the conflict in ukraine will be the litmus test for launching a dialogue on the development of the huge untapped potential of the european union’s future relations with russia. we must avoid creating a lasting rift on our continent. we must also reflect on how we can jointly work on a vision of cooperation on the european continent, where all countries can take advantage of economic opportunities from lisbon to vladivostok. our european house is being destroyed; the time has come to rebuild it with all european partners involved, not leaving anyone outside of this process. the relationship between the eu and russia played a central role; the relationship between the european union, the customs union and, in the future, the eurasian union will have an important role to play.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i believe that today is a historic moment, that the treaty with ukraine is being ratified simultaneously in the rada and in the european parliament, and that we are expressing our determination that, even after the agreement of tuesday, this treaty will not be changed in any way. it's not changed by a single word, it's an asymmetrical implementation. the fact that this has been recognised also means that there is no longer any justification for russia to go against this treaty and to use it as an alibi to go against ukraine. i think we should make it very clear that this treaty, as it stands, is valid in all its parts. it must also be clear that this agreement can no longer be torpedoed. i believe it is equally important that the ukrainian president and the ukrainian government today in the rada propose a series of reform options on anti-corruption, decentralisation and other things which will make it possible to set in motion a reasonable process also within ukraine and thus implement the poroshenko peace plan accordingly. this is also an important measure. it must also be stated that the energy package, which is being renegotiated, will lead to a reasonable solution, that russia must no longer be allowed to use energy and energy prices as a political weapon. i hope that an agreement can be reached there. now we come to a third area, which is the russian invasion of ukraine. the annexation of crimea under international law, the failure to respect the ceasefire, the talk about novorossiya, which gives the impression that more territories are being annexed, the fact that russian soldiers with tanks, official battalions, have been and are active in their hybrid warfare in ukraine, the fact that we finally want to see action rather than words, as the commissioner rightly said, and that this has never been observed in russia since the geneva agreements, and that we must attach importance to this. as long as that is not the case, we will maintain the sanctions and may, if nothing else happens, impose further sanctions, because it must be clear to russia that international law is valid and that the territorial integrity of ukraine is guaranteed. commissioner, you have rightly said that we are ready to partner with russia. it is in our interest to have a good relationship with russia and russia with us. but this can only be done under the conditions of respect for international law. i think that needs to be clear. i think that acceptance of the current russian policy in some areas is simply unacceptable for us too, because we should see that this europe is formed on the basis of law and rules, that no country has the right to interfere in the internal affairs of another country by applying pressure and attacking such countries. it must also be clear that this is true not only in the case of ukraine, but also in the case of moldova, also in matters of georgia and other countries, but especially also in the security of our own countries. now i'm glad to see that there's a renaissance of nato in newport. the collective security of europe also depends on nato. that is why poland and the baltic states must be protected accordingly. it should also be clear that we are now entering a new era, that we are finally implementing a european foreign, security and defence policy, in order to ensure that the territory of each individual european state must have the same quality and that no one can be disadvantaged. we must all know that we have each other's solidarity, and that is the basis on which we can build a peaceful europe.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i have worked with many ukrainians for at least ten years towards this moment of ratification of an agreement between the european union and ukraine, and i must confess that i no longer know whether to be happy, laugh or cry. i am extremely cold-hearted because i do not agree at all with the line of the european commission and the council on the trade agreement. to understand this, we must once again clarify what the association agreement stands for in ukraine. this is not what the ukrainians wanted. the ukrainians wanted to join the european union, and from the beginning there were many who saw the association agreement as an instrument of the european union to keep ukraine at a distance. the fact that this association agreement exists today is not due to mr barroso, mrs ashton, mr füle, mr de gucht, mrs merkel, mr hollande or anyone else. the fact that we can and want to ratify it today has to do with the fact that the citizens of ukraine have fought for freedom and democracy. we have not taken this at all as seriously as we should have taken it together. it is president putin who has taken this democracy movement most seriously. it was putin who decided, when his puppet regime was no longer sustainable, when he took yanukovych out of the game, that he would have to go so far against freedom and democracy in ukraine that he was even ready to invade crimea. in the meantime, he is prepared to allow a war to be waged, a war which will never be declared, which is taking place on the territory of ukraine, but which is directed against freedom, democracy and european values as a whole. ladies and gentlemen, the worst thing in this situation of compromise is self-deception, continuous self-deception. the emperor's new clothes, that's what i was thinking, mr. fule, when you spoke. my impression is that we must now do everything so that the one who has opted for the military solution - putin - does not get what he wants with the military solution, while we have not been able to find a way to protect our ukrainian friends from this willingness to war from russia. i think that's very difficult. we have relied on this fast-track procedure for ratifying the association agreement. mr brok, i do not understand you. are you naive? or do you really think that it is already certain that the trade agreement will enter into force in january 2016 unchanged? i read about who took action against it. i have to tell you that the only person i trust at the moment who has tried to explain his real-political approach to me is pavlo klimkin, the foreign minister in kiev. we have a very difficult road ahead of us. everything is at stake in this trade agreement. and we will only get what ukraine needs if we really commit ourselves to ukraine now, if we do everything to make political, social and economic reforms happen. we pay now, we take money in hand, so putin gets his big foot in the door. i do not know whether we will be able to get him out of there again, because we europeans have been lied to by russian diplomats and politicians. one last wish: the focus on oligarchs and the old established politicians in ukraine cannot continue. i recommend to all colleagues to seek dialogue with many more ukrainians so that we know how our actions are working and so that we finally understand what this country really needs. the winter will be hard. and even that's not settled yet, that we can do that with oettinger's weak ideas. ladies and gentlemen, if the commission had not already ... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (the president cut the speaker off) ) (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr president, mrs harms, i would like to thank you for your reply. i agree with almost everything you have just said. but we're ratifying today. we should retain the right of interpretation over our own ratification. if we ratify this treaty, it is ratified as it stands and cannot be changed. today, the rada will do the same. everything else is outside the text of this treaty. if we ratify it today, the treaty will remain as it is. we must not let our own uncertainty take away this sovereignty of interpretation, because this is extremely unwise and means the next gateway. we therefore say: we ratify this today, and no one can change it; there may be exceptions to the implementation.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. - i'm not going to tell you. it will not surprise you that i will be recommending to my group today that we approve the association agreements. but i am not doing this because i believe the fools in the commission or because i have confidence in president hollande, who wants to supply mistral but at the same time blocks the trade agreement with ukraine. i do this because in this situation it is the only chance to strengthen the backs of bright minds like pavlo klimkin and others in ukraine in their hopeless situation and yet we should support them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. this parliament has always been committed to the sovereignty of ukraine. that is why we have always taken a clear stance against the annexation of crimea and all the steps, however disguised, taken by russia to destabilise its neighbour. it will be like that in the future. the ceasefire, even if it is not respected in some places, is a first step. it may be a political solution, but it is not yet one. we're not confusing the two. there are other steps to follow. the ukrainian president has shown the way. i am not going to go into detail. it is not a question of dragging ukraine to one side or the other, so to speak. we must be concerned with supporting ukraine on its way to political and economic reforms, on its way to democracy and the rule of law and prosperity. because that is what drove the citizens of kiev to the maidan. that is why we are voting today in favour of the eu-ukraine association agreement, which opens up new opportunities for cooperation between the two partners. we therefore support the consultations between the eu, ukraine and russia on the compatibility of free trade agreements with the eu and trade with russia. better late than never. but what is particularly irritating is the late timing of these talks. we have been calling for this again and again as itinerant preachers. the fact that we are only now beginning to speak seriously leaves a devastating aftertaste in the utterly useless and is a testament to our poverty. i very much hope that a different, quicker way will be chosen with regard to the treaties with moldova and georgia. ukraine needs to modernize its economy. we support them now and through the future free trade agreement. but ukraine also needs good relations with its neighbours to the east and west.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in view of the great nonsense we are hearing today from a number of speakers on the far right, i am very grateful that we are all living in a free, democratic european union today. we should all celebrate today as a great step forward, that our neighbours in ukraine have also decided in elections, in votes, to work more closely with us economically and politically. we have always said that it is not either/or, but that there is nothing in our way that prevents ukraine from having very good relations with both neighbours - with all neighbours. it is a pity that the free trade agreement part cannot come into force until a year later, commissioner de gucht. but if we are to help ukraine, we must do everything possible to ensure that our unilateral measures, which have been in force for some time now, allowing ukraine to send its goods and products to europe duty-free and quota-free, are maintained in the future. i ask you: please take the necessary steps so that we can continue to provide this support to the ukrainian economy until the final entry into force of the free trade agreement. ukraine has earned it!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. 75 years after the hitler-stalin pact, i am grateful to belong to the successor state which has learned from this low point in history. there is no internal or intergovernmental conflict in europe which justifies armed violence. the right of the strongest in 21st century europe to be enforced by force of arms is a deeply stalinist approach. we will respond peacefully, with sanctions that make it clear to russia that it can only lose its policy. and we will respond by ratifying the agreement with ukraine. this is our message to the people there - not only in kiev, but also in donetsk, luhansk, mariupol and simferopol: we support your struggle for freedom and the rule of law at home and your orientation towards integration in democratic europe. but i also say to all those in charge in ukraine: this is your last chance to make real reforms at home. i hope you take this opportunity! i'm going to the ukrainian slavs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i think that the question is very important: what can the european union do to ensure that the minsk 12 points are implemented? the answer, of course, is that we must act and negotiate. the double standard of imposing painful sanctions on the one hand and political efforts on the other is the only sensible way of dealing with moscow. but, ladies and gentlemen, the european union should not be blinded by russia's promises. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the twelve-point plan and the associated signals from russia to contribute to a peaceful solution to the conflict are of course to be welcomed. but the fact is that the 12 points have not yet been implemented in principle. there is no stable ceasefire yet, there is no osce monitoring of the ceasefire on the russian-ukrainian border, and there is no complete withdrawal of russian troops from the region. the 12 points are certainly a way of finding a solution, but they are not the solution yet. it is only by balancing decisive action and diplomacy that we as the european union can ensure that the 12 points are actually implemented and that the crisis in ukraine does not become a stagnant conflict in the heart of europe. that should be the message of the day today.
in writing. i reject this resolution by the european parliament on ukraine. the situation in ukraine has somewhat eased, but there are still some foolish and ill-considered demands. ukraine's citizens should be able to enter the eu without a visa as if ukraine has gotten the crime and corruption under control. the eu should end nuclear security cooperation with russia as if chernobyl risks were no longer our concern. eu countries are being asked to cancel the south stream pipeline and other energy agreements with russia as if electricity were coming out of the socket. the strategic security partnership with russia is to be terminated as if russia were no longer a nuclear military power. and alternative solutions to the problem are not even mentioned. the last few weeks have given us a glimmer of hope. it must not be jeopardized by rash measures which can also cause us serious damage in the long run. i condemn the illegal annexation of crimea and any covert or overt support for violent attempts at secession. nevertheless, the borders of ukraine are inviolable, but not immutable. the european union is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome. minorities shall be accorded appropriate rights. the demarcation of the german-danish border after the first world war and the referendum in scotland show that conflicts can also be settled peacefully.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, i would like to thank you for your work. the ratification today, with the current postponement of the entry into force of chapter v of the eu-ukraine association agreement, is seen by my group as critical. two reasons: it has already been stated that nothing will change in the agreement in the end, and at the same time the year announced is to be used to avoid shock therapy in ukraine. who is seriously going to say that the high social costs of association will no longer be due for ukraine in one year? in ukraine we do not even have a parliament at the moment which could legislate on this because new elections are scheduled. we are actually back to the ratification of the eu-ukraine free trade agreement of 2012, or the eve of vilnius. the ep is here today to discuss something that has not been analysed and discussed, contrary to the rules, either in the ep, the eu, or in ukrainian society, and certainly not with partners such as russia. the message is clear: the people will pay for the mine and we are a willing instrument. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in ukraine and the situation in the former yugoslavia, and has called for the eu to take action to prevent the situation from worsening.
the next item is the vote on the motions for resolutions. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. i'd like you to take a seat. please take your seats. as you know, we have organised a live link with the ukrainian parliament for the upcoming vote. you see the colleagues of the ukrainian parliament here on the screens. (applause from the centre) there may be a delay in transmission. you have to assume that what we say and do here is possibly going to be about 30 seconds to a minute late in kiev or vice versa. if you want to clap for 30 seconds at the end of my remarks, we'll bridge the time lag. i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for his reply. i think it is no exaggeration to say that we are living in a historic moment. the european parliament here in strasbourg and the verkhovna rada in kiev will ratify the association agreement between the european union and ukraine shortly. the fact that two parliaments in a free-will democracy are voting on this treaty at the same time today is free democracy in a free-will democracy. that's the opposite of directed democracy. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the ratification of this treaty, the text of which has remained unchanged since the first days of the peaceful demonstrations on the maidan, is a crowning moment for democracy, especially in view of what we have seen in recent months. i ask you: who could have imagined a few months ago that borders would be pushed back by force in europe, that the security architecture that we have worked so hard to build on this continent, especially after the end of the cold war, would be called into question? who would have thought that the rule of the stronger would ever again prevail in europe? we stand for the strength of the law! ladies and gentlemen, the fear of war has returned to europe. what has happened and is happening in ukraine concerns us all. i would therefore like to reiterate here, especially in conjunction with my colleagues in kiev: the european parliament has always defended the territorial integrity and sovereignty of ukraine, and we will continue to do so. (applause from the centre) we will do this so that the dream of the people of ukraine, the dream of the people who fought on the maidan, so that the demands of the ukrainian people can become a reality. we are fighting for a democratic ukraine, a country governed by the rule of law, with a reformed constitution and electoral law, a country which wants to take massive action against corruption, a country in which human rights are respected and, above all, the rights of minorities are protected. we support a ukraine whose economy is thriving, where the social divide is closing and where all people have a good future. the day this ukraine becomes a reality will be the day the promise of the peaceful revolution on the maidan is fulfilled. we - and i believe i speak for the overwhelming majority of members of the european parliament - will support the ukrainian people in fulfilling this dream of the maidan. that is why we are voting today. (applause from the centre) before we come to the vote, i have the great honour, despite the distance and thanks to modern technology, of giving the floor to the president of ukraine, petro poroshenko, who will now be addressing us from kiev. the vote will then take place and after the vote i shall be signing the letter of transmittal from the european parliament to the council in front of you to start the formal procedure for the final procedures. the president of ukraine, mr poroshenko, has the floor. (applause from the centre)
president of ukraine. - mr president, honourable members, first of all i would like to thank you for your applause and for the support for ukraine that you have just demonstrated. i would like to say that the atmosphere here in the verkhovna rada reminds me very much of the atmosphere we had here in 1991 when we gained our independence. who is ready to die for europe? that is the question that is now posed by researchers who research the influence of europe on the creation of a state. it is something that is quite natural, to give one’s life and to die for one’s country. the first 100 ukrainians who died in february and the 872 who died in the east died not only for ukraine; they died so that ukraine could take its place in europe. starting from the second world war, no other nation has paid as high a price for the right to be european. tell me, please, who will dare close the door of europe to ukraine after this? who will be against the prospect of membership in the european union towards which we are taking today our first, but most decisive, step? over seven years – ever since the eu-ukraine paris summit – we have been preparing the text of this association agreement. i would like first of all to thank everybody who took part in this process – the diplomats, the experts, and most of all the citizens who very decisively supported us on our european course. last autumn we thought that everything was absolutely ready for signature, because the whole country was resolutely in favour, and the arguments of those who were against appeared extremely feeble, but on 29 november 2013 in vilnius we were all waiting for this signature. the necessity of signing this agreement then and now is also very evident for ukrainians. ukrainians revolted against what yanukovych did in turning the express train to face eastwards. i am convinced that our vote today will demonstrate this very clearly. the internal or external forces that try to stop our progress have already been defeated. you know that this agreement, which was signed in june 2014 in brussels and is being jointly ratified today, is going to be a feast – not only for us ukrainians, but for all of united europe, because without ukraine there is no united europe. we did not cede to any blackmail. we endured, and i want to underline that in the text of this agreement no paragraph, no comma, no word will have been changed, and that is the text which i will sign today. i shall ask the ukrainian government tomorrow to make this agreement enter into force tomorrow. friends, implementation is very easy. it is freedom of speech; it is the no-visa regime; it is the investment climate; it is democracy. all of that is a way of implementing our agreement. we have no right to wait any longer. our last negotiations in brussels allow us to enlarge upon even what this agreement foresees. we will have preferential treatment until the end of 2015. european products will come into the ukrainian market under the international agreements in the framework in force today. ukraine will be able to compete with other countries and other producers. i also want today to thank the european union for the incredible support that they have given us in these very difficult times. on the other hand, our european partners want only one thing in exchange: reform. please do not delay. neither the war, nor the political situation can be excuses to not proceed with reform. i am convinced of the fact that the national plan for reform for 2020 will be presented. we will do this together, not each and every one of us thinking of ourselves: it is the president, the government and the parliament that must work together and we will go on the path to victory. if anybody tries to open an inner front against this, we will not allow it. moreover, these reforms foresee ukraine becoming a very important centre for anti-corruption laws. i will propose anti-corruption laws in the framework of a bureau or of a committee for this. this is what we have taken upon ourselves as part of the ratification and implementation, and i think that this will be the best way to say that we have already started. in the 1920s, mykola khvylovy – a great ukrainian author – said: give us europe! we understand europe as a psychological category which allows us to move forward towards progress. today we are making steps on this new path of return. the start was difficult, but we will win. glory to ukraine! glory to europe! honourable friends, this will be a historic moment now when, together with the european parliament, we will take a decision. (applause)
ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the vote. the vote on the request for an early vote will take place at the next voting time. before we take this vote, one more remark. i believe that in the history of parliamentarism there has never been a vote by two parliaments ratifying an international treaty jointly on two sides at the same time. i think this is a unique event and one we should be proud of. (applause from the centre) that is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting. the following colleagues have taken the lead: you saw the vote from kiev. i now open the vote on the eu's association agreement with ukraine, on the saryusz-wolski report.
ladies and gentlemen, you have seen that president poroshenko, on the other hand, has already signed and signed the entry into force of the agreement. i now sign the letter of notification from parliament that we have ratified this agreement, in which i call on the other eu institutions to put this agreement into effect immediately. i'm doing this in front of you so you can see it happening immediately. (the president signed the letter of formal notice.) (applause from the centre) the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for the association agreement because for me it is not the end of a story but the beginning of a new one, and you could also call it: working together to build trust. if you read the agreement carefully and look at the prospects, you will see that it is not only a prospect for the european union and for ukraine, but it could also be a prospect, if you wish, in the trilogue between ukraine, between the european union and russia. i repeat once again, the motto could be: through cooperation, through trade, create trust. that is why i was able to vote for the agreement with the majority of this house.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the agreement contains statements that are not taken into account by many; it is not surprising, given the roughly 1 200 pages we have now voted on. i refer specifically to article 89 in the part on trade. it says that the laws in ukraine must be changed to introduce investment protection and so-called arbitration procedures. the eu has also been active in the fight against corruption and organised crime. the commission has already done so. arbitration proceedings can result in billions in fines that could ruin or at least seriously damage the ukrainian economy. if we make the deal with these agreements, the ukrainian people will very quickly realize that we have sent them a trojan horse. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i stress that an agreement with ukraine is absolutely necessary, but not in this form with these passages.
in writing. - i abstained from the vote because i have the impression that this decision does not contribute to the settlement of the conflict between ukraine and russia at this time, but exacerbates it. ukraine is deeply divided and we should refrain from doing anything to reinforce this situation and to make it appear that we are drawing ukraine to one side. the urgently needed peace process can only succeed with russia's participation. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been active in the fight against terrorism.
the explanations of vote are closed. (the sitting was suspended at 12.45 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it is an honour and a privilege for me to be here today to present the council's position on the draft budget of the european union for the financial year 2015, which was formally adopted on 2 september last. this is the second annual budget of the european union under the new multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. as such, it must be functional, both at the start of the programmes being defined in the different areas of intervention and at the completion of the 2007-2013 programming measures at the closure stage. these are the very features which the council took particular account of when defining its position on the 2015 budget, in the awareness of the importance of ensuring adequate financial support from the union to the objectives of growth and jobs and the pursuit of the europe 2020 strategy. of course, in taking account of these objectives, the council has also taken account of the fact that the financing of the programmes of the european initiatives must take place in a context of sustainability and budgetary discipline, in line with what is required by the european union from the member states in relation to national budgets. in view of all this, we believe that the solution identified by the council adequately interprets the need for synthesis between these different objectives, and above all allows the european union to have the necessary budgetary resources for 2015, to honour the commitments already made and to quickly launch new interventions in the various sectors with a view to sound and efficient financial management. in particular, the amount of appropriations allocated to programmes by measures promoting growth and employment, starting with the youth sector, confirms the sensitivity to these priorities, in line with the conclusions of the european council of 26 and 27 june, just as the allocation of resources reserved for measures in other areas, from communications to research and rural development to the immigration emergency, is the result of the specific attention that the council has also paid to these priorities. this is despite the fact that, in adopting its position, the council considered that, compared with the commission's proposal, expenditure savings on certain headings were necessary and possible. necessary in the sense that it is appropriate to maintain adequate margins of resources available for commitments and payments to meet unforeseen circumstances and events during the financial year. possible, in the sense that the reductions were all based on a thorough analysis of the programmes, both as regards their actual expenditure needs and their financial absorption possibilities in 2015, and were therefore identified in such a way as not to adversely affect the implementation of new programmes or the execution and closure of ongoing operations. in any event, as i shall explain later, the council's position provides for a forecast budget for 2015 which, even after these reductions, which are considered necessary and possible, is higher in both commitment and payment appropriations than the forecast budget for 2014. it is understood that italy, as the president-in-office of the union, will work with the european parliament and the commission to reach an agreement on the 2015 budget, relying on the constructive spirit and the climate of cooperation that has always existed between the three institutions in the search for the compromise on the union budget. but let us now turn to the detailed content of the council's position, a position which provides for a total of eur 145 billion in commitments and eur 140 billion in payments. the council therefore foresaw a reduction of eur 522 million in commitments and eur 2.1 billion in payments compared with the commission's budget proposal. as i have already mentioned, despite these reductions, both commitments and payments are up on the 2014 estimated budget, also taking into account the amending budget 1/2014 already approved; in particular, an increase of eur 2.4 billion for commitments, equal to 1.71 per cent of total commitments, and an increase of eur 4.6 billion for payments, equal to 3.32 per cent of total commitments. i think it is important to stress that the council's position does not imply any reduction in the eu budget, even when compared not only to the 2014 budget currently in force, but also when compared with the sum of the balances of the current budget and the balances of the amending budgets for 2014 proposed by the commission and on which the council is still making its assessments. that is why, as i have said before, this is a position which balances the need for adequate support for the socioeconomic development policies promoted by the european union with the need for sustainability and budgetary discipline. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) is based on the principle of equal treatment of the member states in the field of medicinal products for human use. it is no coincidence that this position has been adopted by a very broad consensus in the council, with almost all the member states voting in favour. i shall refrain from going into the details of the headings, heading by heading, provided that i am of course available at the clarification stage, but i would stress that the principle that the council's position implies an increased budget compared with the 2014 budget remains valid for each heading. let me conclude by summarising the three principles that have guided the work done in the council for the examination of the draft budget for 2015. first, the need to provide sufficient funds for the policies that are most important to european citizens, namely the fight against unemployment, especially youth unemployment, investment in research and innovation, support for small and mediumsized enterprises, management of international crises such as the one in ukraine, management of migration flows and humanitarian aid. secondly, the need to be vigilant in the area of public finances, given the continuing efforts required of the member states to contain their budgets. in this connection, particular attention must be paid to controlling administrative expenditure, since we have confidence in the capacity of the european administration to seek and achieve a higher level of efficiency. finally, thirdly, the need to adopt a prudent and reasonable eu budget, with the margins necessary below the various ceilings provided for in the multiannual financial framework to cope with unforeseen circumstances. as i have repeatedly stated in my speech, the italian presidency is convinced that the council's position on the draft budget for 2015 represents a balanced compromise solution, combining the need for adequate budgetary resources to meet the various challenges facing the european union with the need to consolidate public finances, which affects not only national but also european budgets. at the same time, however, i reiterate that italy, as the next president of the union, will work with the european parliament and the commission to reach an agreement on the 2015 budget that takes equally adequate account of the sensitivities and priorities expressed by all three institutions. in conclusion, i thank you for your attention, confident of a calm and constructive discussion, and i remain at your disposal to answer any requests for clarification and further information.
member of the commission. - madam president, honourable members, ministers, thank you for the opportunity to address you today. before i start my speech i would like quickly to react to some comments by the presidency on the eu budget – both the present one and the future one. i want to highlight two figures which may give you a broader picture: the 2014 budget, if finally adopted with all the amendments proposed by the commission, will still be about eur 4 billion below the payments actually adopted for the year 2013; and the budget for 2015, if adopted as presented by the commission, will still be eur 2 billion below the 2013 budget. so we are still far from a return to the level of expenditure we used to have, and, although there has been mention of some increase in the eu budget for 2015, actually, if you compare the figures, there is a slight decrease in nominal terms. taking this into account, the commission has to reiterate its position today that it is disappointed concerning the council’s reading of the draft budget for 2015. the council has taken a ‘business as usual’ approach although we are facing an unprecedented situation. the commission has already expressed its assessment on previous occasions, and now, at this crucial moment of the budgetary procedure, i would like to focus on the main elements. the commission proposal for the 2015 budget was drafted in a challenging context. the main goal is to contribute to the economic recovery by investing in programmes that foster growth and jobs and allow the implementation of the new legally adopted programmes for 2014-2020 to start. we have been tasked with doing this not least by the european council, which confirmed these objectives in june 2014. the biggest difficulties, however, concern the payments. first we need to secure adequate resources for financing the political priorities we have agreed under the new financial framework. second, we need to find a solution and take under control the increasing backlog. we must be able to pay the bills outstanding from the 2007-2013 period and reimburse the member states and other beneficiaries within a reasonable timeframe. we simply cannot ignore the claims coming in. to achieve these targets, the commission has proposed to use the maximum available resources for 2015 and the maximum available flexibility provided for in the current financial framework. in line with the political priorities, the commission has proposed under heading 1a, competitiveness for growth and jobs, an increase of 5.8% in commitments and an increase of almost 30% in payments, which is needed to cover previous years’ deep reductions. yet the council has returned to its tradition and seeks to reduce commitments by half a billion euros and payments by over eur 2.1 billion, with more than 60% of the cuts affecting heading 1a, the heading which provides the very resources that should be helping to contribute to growth and jobs, and particularly to tackling youth unemployment. for heading 1a alone, this is a cut of around eur 1.3 billion in payments. for research, the reduction by 10% would impact, under horizon 2020, on around 600 projects, involving more than 7000 participants, of which around 1400 are smes. similarly, for our external policy – in spite of the eu’s commitments and engagement in recent crises, in particular in neighbouring countries – substantial reductions of eur 384 million are proposed to the commission’s draft budget. we need the full amount of payments the commission has proposed, both in 2014 and 2015, and the full use of flexibility arrangements if we want to stabilise the situation. there must be some limit to pushing payments into the next years, over and over again. we must re-emphasise in this context that what the commission requests for 2015 might suffice only if we keep on track with what is required in 2014. the annual budget is about implementing the multiannual financial framework (mff), not changing the political agreement on which it is based. the political priorities have been decided on during mff negotiations and now we have to find a way to implement them through annual budgets. against this background of the current experience with a shortage of payment appropriations in 2014, the commission can only regret the position taken by the council in its reading of the 2015 budget. the council acts as if the situation called for a ‘business as usual’ approach, ignoring current priorities and the budgetary situation. it is taking a two-step approach, whereby first a low level of payment appropriations is authorised in the budget, with the understanding that a supplementary amending budget may be needed in the course of the year. that is not a sound budgetary approach: it creates a major liquidity problem for the annual budget. i would appeal to you, the parliament, to take account of these concerns during the advance preparation for your reading of the 2015 budget. we should work together to break this vicious circle by putting the right amount of resources in the 2015 budget, from 1 january, in order to implement our common priorities, provide the means to address our obligations stemming from previous years’ commitments and curb the global growth of outstanding commitments – the so-called rals (restes à liquider). i would like to emphasise that the level of payments proposed by the commission for 2015 can contribute to stabilising the situation with regard to the 2014 payments only if the 2014 payments are also addressed, and draft amending budget no 3 for the year 2014, with the request to use the remaining margin under the payment ceiling of eur 700 million and to activate the contingency margin mechanism for an amount of eur 4 billion, is fully adopted. developments on the revenue side in 2014 provide an opportunity to work in this direction. exceptional additional revenue from fines means that the additional payment request for 2014 will be at virtually no cost to member states. this is welcome at a time of tight national budgets. we should seize the chance to try and take control of the situation. finally, we need to agree that, in order to stabilise the situation, we must use all the flexibility arrangements provided for in the new financial framework to address all the unforeseen needs and to stabilise the payment situation. i look to our interinstitutional meeting on 24 september to help us jointly to find a sustainable approach. i would already like to thank parliament for its initiative in convening and hosting this meeting, and in particular the chair of the committee on budgets, mr arthuis, and the budget rapporteurs for 2014 and 2015, ms gardiazabal, ms hohlmeier and mr deprez.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the budget, but that it should be involved in the budget itself. we have defined a multiannual, seven-year financial framework. i have the impression the council doesn't know him anymore. we have only recently adopted it and the council has deviated from it to such an extent that i can no longer understand the council. secondly, they say they want to encourage investment and growth. why, then, are research and innovation being curtailed and the sme sector, which you particularly want to support, being curtailed as well? why do you insist on increasing humanitarian aid to syria, when you are fully aware that you have unfortunately cut it in the budget? development aid must be increased, for the reasons we know, but it is still being cut. i must say quite frankly that, even after the many budgetary negotiations in which i have had the opportunity to participate, it has become more than clear to me that payments and payment obligations are becoming increasingly distant, that we have more and more invoices and less and less payments available. i would hope that the council would somehow reconcile words and deeds. forgive me for being blunt, but i do not understand it at all when i hear about growth and cutbacks in research. i am not sure that the council will be able to understand what it is discussing in person. the other specific plans and the european parliament will be a very difficult task for parliament itself. we shall not make any additional increases to those we decided on in the spring. we have already included the statute for members of the european parliament in it: since it requires us to spend billions of dollars in the budget on the basis of the statute, we have also saved that amount ourselves and will continue to follow a reasonable and orderly line. i would also like to make a few comments on the european external action service. the european external action service also faces the problem of being a growing service, but not receiving the funds to do so, especially since its resources are still distributed rather confusingly between the commission and the european external action service. i therefore think it is absolutely necessary that we should perhaps set up safe rooms so that we can no longer watch the speeches of our external representatives on youtube and that the council should not cross this out. the second and final point concerns the european court of justice. the council decided long ago that it must be expanded. we have serious budgetary risks because we have the first complaint about the delay in the procedure. the procedure now takes more than three years, and this has serious financial implications for the budget. perhaps the ecj should finally be given the new judges it has been promised for a long time, so that it can return to orderly work.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. commissioner dominik has rightly said that the annual budget is also responsible for using and implementing the agreement on the multiannual financial framework. the task is not to break this agreement periodically and annually. i now ask my colleague mr lewandowski, who, as a former commissioner, was involved in the mff negotiations, whether what the council is doing now in research and innovation is not in contradiction with the political agreements which parliament and the council have decided to accept, on the one hand, the figures, but at the same time more flexibility and frontloading, for example ... (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it has been stated on several occasions that horizon 2020 is a good programme. it is purposefully geared to the demands that will be placed on us in the future. but the important thing is that a programme is only as good as it can be put into practice. we therefore believe that this programme is not the right one to make cuts in, particularly in view of the fact that there are already many commitments in this area which are not yet clear how they will be financed. we in the ecr, however, also believe that this cannot be used as a vehicle to demand an increase in the overall budget through the back door. instead, the european budget must also focus more on innovative, future-oriented programmes. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. but it is very clear that this is the general problem, which is in particular the commitments that have not been fully financed. that's where we have to start, that's the most important thing.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to meet you again and to thank three of you on behalf of the epp group: andreas schwab, burkhard balz and krišjānis kariņš for the initiative they have taken in putting this subject of the digital agenda, the digital single market, on the agenda of your plenary. the free movement of goods and services is fortunately facing fewer and fewer technical obstacles, and this makes it all the less understandable that legal, sometimes fiscal or political obstacles persist. these obstacles are even less understandable when this digital single market also has, and probably first of all, an economic, social and human dimension. the digital economy generates 2.6 jobs for every job destroyed in more traditional sectors. there are a lot of opportunities in big data, the cloud, or connected objects. we must exploit the great potential of the digital single market. just two figures, ladies and gentlemen. if we increase the use of broadband by another 10 percent, we gain one point of gdp. if e-commerce, e-commerce, represented 15% of trade within the single market, instead of the 5% it is today, we would gain an additional 1.7% of growth. we have to go for growth where it is. right now, it's an emergency with the citizens. and to do that, we need to establish a proactive regulatory framework. thanks to the commitment of your parliament over the last five years, significant progress has been made. do not count on me to be complacent, there is so much work ahead of the future commission and ahead of you. i simply want to make very specific reminders around three main lines of work: the ambition of our digital europe strategy, the collective momentum given with the decisive support of your parliament - andreas schwab knows this - on single market act i and ii, and finally the focus of the action plan for online trade and services. i would like to remind you by telegram of where we are today. first, the telecommunications. the digital economy must be able to rely on a strong single telecoms market, fostering fair competition, reducing costs for consumers and developing new services that also attract private investment. the regulation that we proposed in september 2013, at the instigation of neelie kroes, and for which your colleague, mrs pilar del castillo, is rapporteur, aims to bring the telecommunications sector truly into the era of the internet and the internal market. the aim is to encourage operators to invest and to develop new business models in order to integrate the 28 national markets, which are often juxtaposed to each other, into a single market. this regulation will make it possible to have more consistent rules for spectrum allocation and to end, as you have requested, by the end of 2015 roaming charges, roaming charges, on voice, text and data. it will also set out the principles of net neutrality, which should make it possible to strengthen consumer protection measures, for which access to the internet should be neither blocked nor throttled, and to develop innovative telecommunications tools for business users. i hope that agreement will be reached quickly between your parliament and the council on this important package. since i am addressing net neutrality, i would just like to say a few words on the question of your resolution on net neutrality of internet searches. the commission is naturally very keen to see the internet operating in an open, non-discriminatory way in all its dimensions, including search engines which have become, as we know, an important tool for all users, consumers as well as service providers and many others. as regards the google investigation to which you clearly refer in your resolution, frankly i will not add anything or comment on the information already provided to you by my colleague joaquín almunia, who is in charge of this case. i think it is important that the european parliament should be concerned about this subject which in many ways is very closely linked to the functioning of our society. but there's an ongoing investigation. the directorate-general for competition, as always, is working independently and in accordance with the rules and procedures in force, in particular to listen to and respond to all complainants. that's all i can say about that. the second major project is online services. in recent years we have also been ambitious in developing a diversified offer of online services within the single market. the e-commerce communication of january 2012 identified three priorities that your assembly often supported. priority 1: developing the legal and cross-border supply of online products and services. this is the aim of the guidelines on the implementation of article 20 of the services directive adopted in june 2012 which will eliminate discriminatory requirements based on the nationality or place of residence of the recipient of services. the commission has shown again this summer - and i have made sure of that - that we are determined to enforce these rules. i have, for example, reminded car rental companies that they must respect the rules of the internal market and fight against price differences depending on the country of the online booking. the second priority is to improve information for operators and consumer protection. this is the subject of the agreement reached in april 2013 on the online settlement of consumer disputes, which should help to strengthen confidence in online shopping. finally, there are payment services, for which your colleague antonio tajani is rapporteur, and reliable and efficient delivery, which is in particular the objective of our roadmap of december 2013 for improving parcel delivery within the single market. i also met at length last week with all the presidents of the european postal operators who have committed themselves to concrete results by the summer of 2015, in a very short time, on the availability, quality and accessibility of parcel delivery solutions. on payments, i proposed in july 2013 the revision of the payment services directive, which is the responsibility of your colleague pablo zalba, and a regulation on interchange fees. i trust that parliament will reach agreement on this too in the very next few months, perhaps even before the end of my term. the third area is copyright. for the past five years, with the support of president barroso, i have been pursuing a reform agenda based on a commonly agreed objective and method. copyright, which is so important, has to live with its time. the time is now the time of the internet and the time of the single market. we must also, at the same time, take account of the interests at stake and the wide diversity of positions in the member states and the various operators and proceed step by step, without ideology, on the basis of analysis and solid evidence. i think, ladies and gentlemen, that this pragmatic approach was the right one. i want to see the results we have achieved together as proof: the adoption by the co-legislators of two pieces of legislation, namely the orphan works directive, for which lidia geringer of oedenberg is responsible, and the directive on collective management of copyright which owes so much to your former colleague, marielle gallo , adopted in february 2014 with the almost unanimous support of the parliament and the council. in addition to these two texts, we should mention the signing of two international treaties, one of which is on access to cultural content for the visually impaired, to which i have paid great attention, as you have done: this is the marrakesh agreement, which has occupied us a lot. i thank you again for your support of this initiative, as well as other non-legislative initiatives. here's the takeaway. we have also started work on the reform of the european copyright framework. just a word about the very intense work that has been done on this sensitive topic: in addition to economic and legal analyses, dialogue with all stakeholders, the positive exercise on licensing for europe licensing europe , we launched a public consultation in early 2014. nearly ten thousand citizens, industry, businesses and public authorities responded and highlighted, through this consultation, three key issues that a future reform should take into account. the development of supply throughout the single market, for example by removing the barriers faced by consumers, citizens who want to access video-on-demand services existing in other member states than their own. secondly, the link between copyright and new digital uses. i am thinking, for example, of the problems related to user generated content or what is called text and data mining. thirdly, the functioning of the market and the balance of the value chain, ensuring fair remuneration for authors and creators, while encouraging the emergence of new offers and services. we have had very intensive discussions on all these subjects both within the commission and outside it. for reasons of timetable, at the end of our mandate, i think it will be difficult to take another step forward with the adoption of this white paper, as we would have wished. i am not prepared to upset the balance of the work we have done. i do not think, as some do, that copyright should be deregulated to create growth in europe. on the contrary, i am convinced that the return on investment in innovation, creation, the work of creators, particularly journalists and many others, and the development of the digital single market go hand in hand. we must find a common path to reconcile these two dimensions. it is a pity that there is no white paper at this stage. i am convinced that all the preparatory, consultative and drafting work which i have just mentioned will be useful for the future initiatives of the new european commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, telecommunications, online services, copyright, in these three areas we have made real progress in the service of consumers and businesses. i would also like to say a few words - to conclude - about three other important successes for the digital single market. the data protection regulation put forward by my former colleague and your new colleague, viviane reding, and today by your rapporteur jan philipp albrecht is another key issue of trust in the digital world. new provisions will give citizens greater control over their personal data, better protect it, and make it easier for businesses to work across borders. the second topic is dematerialization, the digitisation of public procurement and the directive on electronic invoicing, for which birgit collin-langen is rapporteur. i would like to remind you, since we are talking a lot about jobs and growth, that if we achieve a real digitalisation of public procurement, which represents 18% of european gdp - 18%! - if we achieve, with the reform of public procurement and concessions that i proposed to you and which has been adopted, electronic invoicing and electronic signature, e-authentication, we could save between 50 and 70 billion euros every year by simply digitalising it, which is within our reach. we must go and get those savings and direct that money to other, more productive investments. thirdly, we have opened up the cybersecurity sector - which andreas schwab knows well - by strengthening cooperation between member states to deal with threats, which is a prerequisite for the development of the digital economy and in particular facilitating the use of secure online services between citizens, businesses and public services. at the time of all these espionage cases, i can say, as a commissioner, as vice-president of the commission or as a citizen, that it is urgent that we all find or build together the tools of our strategic autonomy. all of this is part of it. on the basis of these achievements, we must continue our efforts, and this is a reality. technical progress has always been one step ahead of politics. it must be acknowledged that many obstacles still remain to building this true digital single market. to cite just one figure from the digital strategy scoreboard, only 14% of european smes are doing business online. only 14 percent of them! this figure has been stagnating for four years and is still far from the target of 33%. we need to create this digital single market, give these companies a broad trading base, equivalent to that enjoyed by american companies in their own market. we can build on this foundation to succeed in creating growth in the globalised world. to achieve these goals, we must continue to remove obstacles one by one. we identified many of them with you in single market act i and ii. we need to go further by developing a comprehensive, comprehensive, holistic approach, which involves networks of the best global standards, a level playing field to enable the emergence and development of innovative and competitive european players and a comprehensive plan to adapt europeans' skills to the jobs of tomorrow. we also need to rethink our governance, engaging all stakeholders by improving policy coherence, for example, copyright, taxation, data protection, competition, industrial policies. all of this works together and in this sense the new way the commission works, with its groups of commissioners and vice-presidents, should allow for better coherence between all these subjects that work together also by forming a grand coalition to promote the digital single market, using the newly created structures that i am listening to, founders forum, startup europe, european cloud partnership, ceo networks. i believe that the single market is a great unifying project, and that it must remain a collective project, led by the commission, by you and by the council, with pragmatism, without ideology and in a voluntary way. i simply hope, ladies and gentlemen, madam president, that - as i have done in the field of financial regulation, by rebuilding with you the foundations of financial stability, which is the precondition for any initiative for growth and competitiveness - what we have done with my colleagues over the past five years on the digital issue is indeed the basis on which the new commission can now give new impetus, with the support, always, of your parliament.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is a pleasure for us to be able to discuss what has been achieved and to talk about the issues that still separate us from the actual completion of the digital single market, after a long election campaign in which the commission president-elect, jean-claude juncker, has called for the digital single market to be one of the priority issues for the new commission. unfortunately, i only have two minutes left, so i want to make this very general and very brief: i think that we have two main questions that will concern us in the coming years. i therefore regret that it was not possible to discuss a motion for a resolution today and to adopt it tomorrow. but we can also talk about the content. the epp group, for which i am the first to speak, has always supported the completion of this digital single market in the past years by a large majority, and in a very broad way - beyond the single market committee alone. i think we can say today that there are two main problems that we have to face. firstly, we need more uniform rules, and this will only succeed - the council has now left again - if the member states are able to take this egocentric view of maintaining their own rules a step further and are able and willing to work towards creating more uniform rules in europe. we are creating new growth, we are strengthening small and mediumsized enterprises, and we are also creating new employment opportunities - especially in those countries which are currently experiencing economic problems. secondly, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the aim is to create a level playing field where small, medium and large companies, regardless of where they come from, have a fair access to the market. i am pleased that the european commission last week extended its investigation against a major search engine operator. i think it's about finding a good solution in the end, not necessarily a quick shot. unfortunately, however, we have had some difficult and long months, and we finally need a clear regulation for small and mediumsized enterprises in europe. this is the only way that innovative european companies can have a chance in the long term. i do not know whether six months will be enough for the programme that jean-claude juncker has put forward. it's an ambitious timetable. but we in the epp group want to do everything we can to make this programme a success, because it involves not only clear rules but also real opportunities for new growth.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we social democrats have also said time and again that the digital single market is a very important area of european policy. it is also extremely important because the digital market is becoming more and more, more and more pervasive. it is becoming increasingly important that we ensure that clear rules are also established in this area - clear rules that also provide legal certainty for our citizens, and not only for citizens but also for consumers, workers in this area and, of course, businesses. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. it is particularly in this area, which touches so many areas of life - indeed all areas of life - that it is very important that we define a holistic approach and an ambitious strategy. this is extremely important. we just heard it . there are many examples where this digital market plays a role. to name just a few examples: payments, accounting, procurement law, e-commerce, online dispute resolution, telecommunications and so on and so forth. there are a lot of areas that fall into this area. that is why it is very important that we pursue a sensible european policy in this area. and this concerns a great many areas, as i have already said. one of the highest priorities for our group is and will of course remain net neutrality in the area of the internet. that must be the ultimate goal, because that is the guarantee that there is also justice in this area. it is also very important that we achieve neutrality in this area, as well as in other areas - mr barnier has just mentioned this with regard to google - also in the search engines. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of information centres, the development of a european network of information centres and the development of a european network of information centres. that's not what we want. we also want to give small and medium-sized businesses a chance, not just the very big ones that can put a lot of money in their hands to get to the right place. these are the kinds of issues we need to address. we also have to address issues that raise ethical questions. because fields like medicine, health care and others are also increasingly being included in this area of the digital market. we must also think very carefully about how we want to achieve this. data protection, copyright and other issues are just as many issues that we need to address. i'm afraid i don't have time to do this any longer. we have a very big job to do here. it's good that we're addressing this, too.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. perhaps i am the one who is adding a little water to the wine, in continuation of what has just been said. we talk about the digital single market, but we haven't done it yet. we are working on it, and we have to work on it, but there are difficulties. because i can see that in the areas of data protection, for example, or net neutrality, the situation today is that companies that come from outside the european market can choose which of the 28 jurisdictions they want to follow, and thus have a massive advantage over companies that are already in one of these 28 jurisdictions and want to sell their products and services to the other 28 countries as well. this is a problem for european companies. and it makes it a massive competitive disadvantage to those, especially those from silicon valley, who are relatively unregulated in this market. but to conclude from this that we should follow the silicon valley model and simply abolish or reduce the rules, i think that is the wrong way to go. we are already losing the confidence of our citizens, of consumers, in our market. the same applies to us as consumers: in 90% of the cases where my data is processed, european data protection law no longer applies. i can't trust my data to be processed properly. in many cases today, when it comes to it security, cyber security, the doors of the companies are open -- anyone can go in. it's so easy to get into the most sensitive systems -- we basically have no standards. we must respond to this, and that means making uncomfortable demands, and even saying that such a standard applies to everyone, that it cannot be lowered. what we need is a high standard that people can trust in, in privacy, in net neutrality and in cybersecurity and all the issues that we're discussing. we must have that courage, also towards the member states. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you for asking! it's right that we're talking about this. the answer really leads us to what happens when everyone in the european union is basically choosing only the standard that offers the lowest level of consumer protection. we see this trend. then it's the lowest standard that applies. so we can agree right away that this is the standard across europe, and we don't have to make sure that 28 countries have different rules and everyone gets used to it. but i tell you, this will not be accepted by the consumers! they will turn their backs on this common market and then they will decide to close their border again. we have no single market, but we have 28 different markets in europe. i don't think we all want that.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i can only strongly support the idea that we should also use the european digital agenda as a priority to make small and medium-sized enterprises competitive on the world market and to promote them in such a way that they can succeed in the future. secondly, it is also necessary to put the so-called monopolists, whether they are search engines or other types, on the spot and remind them that, even if they are outside the european union, they must comply with european rules. the question is whether you can point consumers to 28 different standards in 28 different countries. i don't think that's what you mean. i do not know ireland, the irish do not know germany, the french do not know britain, so how can the consumer develop any security in an international digital market? but we must ensure that those who, for example, by making seemingly harmless changes to the general terms and conditions, suddenly turn private data into public data and suddenly use millions of data and addresses for themselves and not for the purposes for which they were originally obtained. people expect us to do data protection in an adequate way, without at the same time overwhelming every tiny company with the same data protection rules that we impose on companies that have a billion volumes of data and use it accordingly. i have the impression that we are still very timid about monopolists and that we must set limits quite clearly, otherwise a digital agenda cannot succeed, because monopolists do not comply with competition rules. that is why we must change the rules of competition.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are discussing this afternoon the digital single market, growth potential, new jobs. the commission will also be able to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data. but all this can only work if consumers, citizens, have confidence in these services. this is also true for our companies whenever they use online services. can we all really trust that personal documents -- business documents, for example -- in the cloud are actually secure? if we are to not only catch up with other bidders, but to move ahead of them, we need to have confidence in the offers and the possibilities. the fundamental right to data protection must become a priority, a foundation for the further development of the digital single market. and for that we need the european data protection reform. people should not be subjected to mere economic interests, but should be able to make informed decisions about their own data, about what data is collected, by whom, for what purpose, and where and for how long it is stored. the aim is to enable users to exercise these and other rights vis-à-vis providers, wherever in the world the provider is based. this is an important condition. strong data protection is the key to a successful digital single market. and it is particularly in small and medium-sized enterprises that this awareness must be strengthened to avoid risks such as those in the field of cloud computing. only when i know what risks i am taking can companies act accordingly, for example by using european and hopefully privacy-friendly cloud systems. data protection and growth - my conclusion - are the two sides of the digital single market. and it will be all the more successful the more we can all rely on the fact that fundamental rights apply online, also digitally.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to comment on two points which you raised in your opening remarks, mr barnier. firstly, i believe that the commission is now called upon to deal with google and its market power in a tough but fair way in order to finally present an acceptable solution. google has now proposed three times unacceptable i think it's enough! in fact, to accept that would also have been unacceptable. i am therefore glad that the commission has once again granted a deferral. a company that penetrates the life of every individual in its breadth and depth, and at the same time touches on the diversity of opinion and media pluralism, can and must be asked to be transparent. the obligation to disclose previously secret search algorithms would be a viable means. we also need to oblige search engines throughout europe to use the same search criteria for all services. i believe that this criterion must be relevance. second, fairness can only be created in a truly open internet. the google case is a clear example of what happens when business interests are put above public interests. politics has left google in the lurch for too long. we can't let that happen again. if we allow ourselves to be lured into the upcoming trilogue procedure on the digital single market regulation to regulate net neutrality too laxly and to open the back door to circumvent net neutrality by means of special services that are hardly regulated, the google case will indeed have been a breeze. the full and unconditional guarantee of net neutrality is the technological security necessary for fair competition. it must not be exploited by special services, which means that special services must only be allowed where they are technically necessary and do not restrict the freedom and openness of the internet. this should be instructive and helpful for us in the trialogue negotiations.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the commission for taking this issue seriously. i also think it is good that the new commission is putting a priority on this. we also all have very high expectations about this, because it's about our technological future on the one hand, but also about our data and the protection of our data on the other. one of the very big priorities in this area must be the issue of internet security, to create trust here too: security against cyber attacks, against mass spying, against economic espionage, against fraud. we also want to fight terrorism and crime through data and digital technology. we do not want a surveillance state here, but we also want the state to be able to fulfil its security tasks in the digital market. that is why we need a regulatory framework - the sooner the better - for this digital world, for the protection of individuals, but also for the fight against crime. we must draw new lines everywhere and not leave the net to anarchy and the rule of the stronger. we must therefore also make greater efforts to establish common standards with our american partners. if we fail to do so, and if we still care about privacy in the future, then we must become even more independent, including from our american partners. that's what we described in the nsa investigation report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and we also need to see that we give greater weight to safe harbour in this area of privacy and protection of citizens. i would encourage the commission to have the courage to put an end to safe harbour and to put this on a new footing.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his report. the further development and strengthening of the digital single market is also of the utmost importance for the area of creative industries, media diversity and cultural diversity in europe. but in our development we must ensure that we create a level playing field for all. the cultural sector in particular is supported by small and medium-sized enterprises in the creative industries and is characterised by linguistic and content diversity. in order to promote and maintain this, a non-discriminatory, open and transparent internet is essential. we must therefore ensure that there is fair competition, particularly on platforms, search engines and other distribution channels on the internet. search engines and platforms often act as gatekeepers, which can quickly lead to a disruption of this diversity of creative educational and media offerings. the bundling of search engines with their own content and service offerings is liable to distort competition. it is therefore important that the commission ensures transparency, openness and non-discrimination, especially for platforms with significant market dominance, so that platform operators' own offers and services are not privileged and others are not disadvantaged. market dominance should not result in consumers only receiving limited other offers or only certain providers being easily found on the net. culture, education and the media also benefit from europe's great diversity. this wide variety of content and offers is an invaluable asset that must be strengthened and preserved. the key to the success of any offer in the future will be the ability to be found on the internet. we therefore also call for the creative and educational sectors and media pluralism to ensure the neutrality of search and an open, transparent and non-discriminatory internet. all citizens must have access to content, services and goods on the internet without discrimination. this is the only way to ensure that we can exploit the great potential of the digital single market in the long term. we need this neutrality, both in search and in the web.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, next week political leaders, together with business and civil society, will gather in new york for the un climate summit to catalyze action and ambition on climate change. we have high hopes and expectations that the summit will create a climate of mutual trust between the parties and generate the political momentum needed to contribute to a successful outcome of the international climate negotiations, with a view to a comprehensive agreement at the paris conference in december next year. as you know, the main objective of these climate negotiations is to ensure that the temperature rise remains below two degrees celsius. this commitment was accepted globally in copenhagen and reaffirmed in cancún. now it has to be translated into reality and it needs everyone to contribute. the fifth assessment report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change once again underlines the need for urgent global action if we are not to leave the task of addressing climate change to future generations. the european union is therefore continuing to work hard both internally and within the unfccc in the fight against climate change. between 1990 and 2012, the european union has effectively managed to decouple growth, which was up 44 percent, from greenhouse gas emissions, which were down 19 percent, thanks to a whole range of policies and measures. this shows that the two are not mutually exclusive. the european union and its member states are determined to reach a comprehensive agreement in paris in 2015. ambitious mitigation commitments are needed to keep the global average temperature increase below 2 degrees celsius above pre-industrial levels. it is essential that the major economies and emerging economies take a leading role. in march 2014, the european council announced that it would decide in october on a framework for energy and climate policies up to 2030. this will allow the european union to present its contribution to the global agreement by the first quarter of next year, in line with what was agreed last year in warsaw. let's hope others do the same. there is a high level of awareness at eu and member state level of the importance of climate finance. they are committed, along with others, to mobilize $100 billion by 2020, and are ready to start the initial capitalization of the green climate fund this year. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am fully aware that the same high level of ambition is shared by the vast majority of the members of this parliament. the presidency is therefore looking forward to hearing your views and to welcoming some of you to the lima conference later this year.
member of the commission. - mr president, in a way there is not much to add to what we have just heard from the italian presidency. it is very clear that we see eye-to-eye on what is the purpose of this huge international event on climate change next week in new york. it is clear that the purpose of such a meeting must be to try to create renewed momentum and more awareness. it is not a place where you negotiate in all sorts of detail the next climate agreement, everybody knows that, but i must say that i think it is encouraging that more than 125 heads of state and governments have now accepted secretary-general ban ki moon’s bold invitation. i think that is also a very good sign, because what it really means is that all these heads of state, already at this stage, before they go to new york, have needed to ask in their own governments ‘what are we prepared to deliver in paris next year?’ that is where the real significance of this new york meeting lies. it is clear that the european objective must be that the agreement reached next year in paris must be sufficiently ambitious to make it credible that the world will stay below the two degrees celsius threshold, as was agreed by leaders in copenhagen in 2009. it is also worth noting that we are actually to a large extent talking about a new generation of heads of state, because governments have changed so fast that we really need to bring these messages and this issue to the top of governments, many of which have changed heads of state since the last similar meeting in september 2009. i must say that i am confident that the eu and its member states will project a confident, united, committed eu at the summit. i think we have already had a rehearsal at the recent bonn ministerial meeting back in june, where we really made a united effort and portrayed a united europe. it is a europe that is both credible in our own action and responsive to the needs of the most vulnerable. that means that it is also absolutely key next week that our governments send a very strong signal that europe intends to deliver on our financial pledges made in copenhagen. i believe that the summit will see eu leaders reaffirm their commitment to the 2015 paris agreement timetable and to tabling our contribution on time, which is the first quarter next year, after this october when we will have adopted our own 2030 targets. this is not just wishful thinking. it is something that the leaders of the european union have twice said will happen, in march and again in june: that we will have the 2030 targets known by next month. therefore, of course, commission president barroso will present at the summit our ambitious 2030 proposal for, among other things, a 40% domestic reduction target of greenhouse gas emissions. it is essential, though, that all the major economies in the g20 also table their contributions in the first quarter next year. the eu will press strongly for this during the summit. we want a single ambition and leadership across the different thematic areas of the summit, which range from climate finance to energy, to agriculture, to cities and the economic case for action. and member states of course have their own planned national announcements that will be made. the eu will also express its support for the many un-led initiatives which will be launched at the summit, among them an initiative on hfcs; a statement on hfcs, which is very, very important; the global alliance for climate-smart agriculture and the carbon pricing statement – it is a good thing that the carbon-pricing family is actually growing globally – and the global forest declaration. the eu wants to ensure that the summit delivers a political outcome which meets our objectives for 2015, particularly on commitments to reach an ambitious agreement in paris, on ensuring that major economies table their co2 reduction contributions by march 2015, and on climate finance. hopefully, as i said, the involvement of heads of state will give a push towards lima, because it is not all about paris next year. in order for paris to be a success, already in lima we need to start to have text on the table and that is what we should push for with the momentum that can be created in new york next week. and then a final point: i also hope that the message will come clearly through that it is essential that all parties, particularly the big emitters, present no later than the first quarter of 2015 their contributions: what they intend to do. why is that important? because we need time, prior to paris, to see whether the combined global effort will be enough to make us stay below the two degrees. that is basically what paris should be all about and that must be the ambition level that we have for paris.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. before i come to the ban ki-moon summit, i would like to thank connie hedegaard. this may be the last debate in plenary that she will be taking part in here in the european parliament. i would like to thank you for your work. i've often heard that the last five years have not been easy for climate action. i'm sure that's true. but those who say it was the commissioner's fault should imagine what would have happened if we had had a commissioner who was less committed, less strong. so, connie, thank you so much for your hard work. you have kept climate action alive in the european union and worldwide. that was a great achievement in a difficult time. the next 15 months will be crucial for progress in the global fight against climate change. the summit this week will be a first step. but, as important as it is, we should not expect too much. the big solution will not come on friday, of course. we must work in stages. i would like to support everything that has been said by the president of the council and connie hedegaard, and i would add that the g7 process will also play an important role in this context next year. when we talk about climate protection, many people think first of renewable energy. renewable energy is also important from my point of view. i had a conversation last week with the chairman of the european electricity producers, eurelectric. he said he also believes that renewable energy will be cost-efficient and competitive in a few years. but right now, we have a big cost problem. that is why we should all work together to make energy efficiency a bigger concern. i would also like to express my gratitude to mr juncker here in the house for his commitment to the new commission: at least 30% energy efficiency. i think this is a good signal, also for international negotiations. we will also remind the new commission of this promise.
i have to say, madam president, the summit in new york is expected to bring a new dynamic. and it's also urgently needed because emissions are going up and up and we're actually moving further away from the 2°c target than we are getting closer to it. today, a study called better growth, better climate, was released for the summit, and it shows once again that climate action can be a driver of economic activity and investment, not the opposite. the right political framework is lacking. the fossil and nuclear energies are still subsidized. the price of co2 is far too low. some 70 trillion or trillion investments are prioritized in the wrong way, because they are not sustainable projects. i believe that the eu is good, but not good enough, and i hope that we will not get worse in the new period. climate action must be a category in its own right and cannot be squeezed into another portfolio. mrs. hedegaard, you set the standard, thank you for that. we shall have to measure the new commission by this.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am concerned about three things in the agreement with canada. the first is: commissioner, you are aware of the critical debate in many civil society circles in europe on trade policy. i do not understand why, when parliament receives the text on 6 august, you have not yet published it and have just said that you would do so in a few days' time. i believe that in order to have a rational discussion in the population, the texts must be published quickly, so that everyone has the opportunity to look into it and know what it actually says. secondly, yes, there will certainly be some very positive elements, which i saw in the first survey. but we also have a few question marks about the provision of services and also the question of how the standstill clause actually affects the development of services, especially in the case of re-communalisation. we'll have to analyze that. the third point, commissioner, is the question of isds, the investment protection mechanism. i'm not sure that such an instrument can be approached today. it was once thought of as a hedging instrument against uncertain states that then carry out undemocratic expropriations. today, this is against the democratic decisions of parliaments, and that is no longer appropriate. we cannot agree to such an instrument. that's why i'm asking you to negotiate and make sure this gets out. i don't want you to have to go through another acta.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. 150 000 people, including myself, have followed your call and participated in the isds consultation. the text you used as a basis was the isds chapter of the ceta agreement. before you present your assessment, you want to declare the negotiations closed without changing a single stroke of the pen on the isds chapter. they even want to protect speculative financial market investments. even investors who have not made any investments yet. this means that even if one is planning an investment, he can already run against unjustified restrictions in his discretion before the private courts outside the existing legal systems of the contracting party. why did you conduct the consultation? if you try to hide opinions, you will further discredit european politics in the eyes of the public. the eu is already losing credibility in the eyes of the public. shouldn't we be doing something different? the people do not want isds, neither in ttip nor in ceta. as democratically elected representatives of millions of people in the eu, we cannot possibly agree to an agreement with canada on this isds.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the text of the ceta agreement is now available. the commission wishes to declare the negotiations closed. i think that's wrong. even though we as a parliament have not been able to examine the texts thoroughly, the first inspection shows that there is a need for further improvement. the investment protection agreements include the establishment of arbitration courts beyond national legal channels. such arbitration tribunals are an undermining of democracy and the rule of law. because a fundamental principle is that all are equal before the law. the arbitration courts are making companies and corporations more equal. this is unacceptable. secondly, negative lists define which sectors are not covered by the agreement. is it still possible to recommunalise sectors or areas that have been liberalised? it is part of democracy that political decisions remain subject to review in democratic procedures. ceta is not acceptable if it overrides fundamental principles of the rule of law and democracy. the commission is therefore called upon to negotiate further.
thank you very much, mr. caputo. it's not really my job to educate adults. but we are at the beginning of a legislative period, and with you, mr caputo, the interpreters' emergency light has been on from the beginning: slow down! the interpreters can only interpret at a certain speed. if you want not only your fellow italians to understand what you are saying, but the whole continent, then it would make sense if you could fit in a minute's speech as many statements as an interpreter of excellent quality, like the one we have here, who can also interpret reasonably. i'm not gonna say it again. i admonish the speaker once by such a knock, and then i take away his speech. otherwise the interpreters will stop interpreting and we will not be able to discuss this any further.
member of the commission. - mr president, before turning to investor-state dispute settlement (isds) – which is obviously the one issue that will ensure most of the members present here tonight are not going to sleep very well – i will try to reply to a number of questions that have been put. however, mr leichtfried, i think you will sleep well. the first question came from mr martin: why does the council not initial this agreement, whereas it would have done so for all others? the council never initials an agreement. it has never done so. the procedure is that it is the commission which initials an agreement after the legal scrubbing process, and the legal scrubbing has not yet been done. so what president barroso and prime minister harper will announce at the eu-canada summit will be the conclusion of the negotiations. that is the simple answer to your question. in relation to generic medicines, i can give you an assurance that we are not going to change the arrangements – not only those with canada but also those with other countries. take, for example, the negotiations with india that are not yet concluded: there too we have taken the approach that trade in generic medicines should not be hampered. on the non-trade issues, like the eu seals ban and tar sands, we have decided that it is up to the world trade organisation to decide. that was probably a sign of wisdom to a certain degree. with regard to the mandate, and to public consultation, i would like to make it very clear that we were asked to discuss and come to an agreement on isds – but i will return to that later. mr mineur and some other members also said that this would only be an agreement for big companies and not one for smes. however, big companies do not need free trade agreements; the companies that need free trade agreements are the smes, because what you are really doing with this type of deep and comprehensive free trade agreement is giving them a new home market. that is what you are effectively doing, so the assertion is certainly not true. mr jadot and mr lange put a number of questions concerning access to the agreement. this is very simple: as soon as the negotiations were concluded we sent the outcome to parliament, to you and your fellow members, mr lange, and to the member states. the text of the ceta will also be published: at this moment, both sides are coordinating their preparations, which include preparing a version for the visually impaired, as well as some minor editing, and the publication date should not be far from that of next week’s summit. it is very simple, we are not hiding anything, although i am not sure whether many citizens are waiting to read this agreement during the autumn nights. i have my doubts about that. if i could give you some advice, i would not read it! even with some editing it is very dry stuff. ms beghin was afraid that citizens were not aware of the text. ms le pen – who was here with many supporters but has now disappeared – asked you, for once, to vote in the right direction. she asks that all the time and i can only conclude that you are not following her advice, so maybe sooner or later you should explain why. mr kelly had a question on the quota system but i see that he too has disappeared. everybody is leaving: perhaps it is because i am speaking for too long. with regard to the quota system and high quality cuts: there is differentiation between high quality and other cuts – very clear differentiation – and we know the difference. these are separate markets and you have to take that into account. then there was a question by ms arena on whether we are going to change social, environmental and other norms and standards. of course we are not, and you will not change them by discussing them. changing those standards, ms arena, is a matter solely for yourselves in the european parliament. with regard to the citizens’ initiative, a citizens’ initiative allows citizens to ask the commission to use its powers to propose the adoption of legislation – it could, for instance, call on the commission to propose concluding an agreement with a third country – but it does not cover requests to eu institutions not to do something, for example to stop negotiating a trade agreement such as the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip), or not to sign or conclude an agreement such as ceta once the negotiations have ended. the matter is then in the hands of parliament and the council. for that reason the request not to conclude the ceta agreement and to stop the on-going ttip negotiations has been considered inadmissible. the criteria on which the commission’s decision here was based are purely legal criteria. i understand that you are going to oppose this and, of course, it is your right to do so. now on isds – if i have some more speaking time, mr president, because i have hundreds of questions on this and i understand this is what is keeping everybody awake – i will try to give an answer. let me start by saying that in its april 2011 resolution on the future european international investment policy, the resolution in the arif report which was adopted by a very large majority including the s&d in response to the commission’s communication on investments, parliament did call for the inclusion of isds procedures in eu investment agreements by calling for measures to ensure there would be no abuses of the system. that is the starting point of my reasoning. the same goes for the mandate we received from the council of ministers. it is stated explicitly in that mandate, which was adopted unanimously, that we should go for an isds agreement. i do not know exactly why, but all of a sudden this has become the overriding issue when it comes to trade. many members have mentioned the public consultation, showing apparently that the whole of the european population is thinking along those lines. we will come next week, or in a couple of weeks, with the first analysis of the public consultation results. what it shows is that more than 50 000 out of 150 000 answers are identical. normally, you have to get into the system; you have to answer 12 questions and then submit your answers. however, these respondents have found a way – i do not understand anything about the technicalities – to circumvent this and give an answer without getting into the system, and that of course makes it very easy to get 50 000 identical answers. you could have 500 000 – why not? then there are another 50 000 who are simply saying ‘we are against’. but we will look into all the answers, and if there are interesting elements there we will certainly take them into account. now, is the ceta a blueprint for the ttip or any other eu agreements? i prefer to think that the ceta (along with the agreement with singapore by the way) is more than a blueprint: that it marks a turning point in the european approach on investment protection. it demonstrates beyond any doubt that the commission is generally committed to reforming the system. let me cite a few of the novelties and unique improvements achieved in the ceta. first, there is explicit reference to the capacity of states to regulate in the public interest. second, there is a precise definition of investment protection standards to prevent abusive interpretations. third, there is full transparency in isds: all hearings are open, all documents are public, interested parties can make submissions. by the way, this goes much further than any proceedings in a commercial court. in a commercial court the only thing that is open is the judgment. you cannot get access to the parties’ files. there are many lawyers in the house – though not many tonight of course – and they know that you cannot dig into the file of the other party. you simply cannot do that. the judgment will be much more transparent here. it is the first ever agreement incorporating binding rules on ethics and arbitrators of conduct. there are strict controls on cost, and the ‘loser pays’ principle has been introduced, making sure that investors bringing spurious claims pay the cost. we have agreed that an appellate body will be established, based largely on the wto appellate body practice, and this is the most effective way to create consistency in arbitration decisions, make arbitrators accountable and ensure predictability. there are many other improvements in the ceta and it is not excluded that further improvements of the eu’s approach in other negotiations are possible. one has to be clear, however, that the ceta and the ttip negotiations are different. the ceta text has already been agreed with canada. by contrast, the commission has launched a public consultation to receive the views of stakeholders, and especially of citizens, on the ttip. analyses of the replies received in the consultation will inform decisively the eu position on the ttip. so i can confirm that the ceta is not a blueprint for the ttip, just as i can confirm that the process of reform of the system, to which the eu is committed, is a one-way street. there is no going back. what we have tried to improve in the ceta will only be further improved in future negotiations. several members put the question: why do we need isds in a ceta between countries with solid, mature judicial systems. the issue is more one of enforcement, however, than of the standard of maturity of the legal system per se. we need to make sure that eu investors can enforce their rights because the ceta would not be enforceable in canadian domestic courts. it would not be enforceable there – as you probably know, mr leichtfried – because they have a dualist approach whereas we have a monist approach. any trade agreements, including any guarantees on investment protection, signed by the eu with a third country, whether it be canada or singapore, would not be automatically enforceable by the domestic courts of either partner, and, under canada’s consistent practice, domestic courts cannot give effect to international treaties. secondly, the presence of a solid legal system does not mean the absence of problems for investors. the energy charter treaty already applies between many countries with developed legal systems. also, the eu member states themselves have numerous bilateral investment treaties. according to recent figures from the united nations conference on trade and development (unctad), of the 271 cases registered between 2008 and 2013, 15% – that is 40 cases – are intra-eu cases: isds cases initiated by investors from an eu member state against another eu member state. we have proposed, by the way, having a different rule within the european union, but many member states – including yours, mr lange – refused to have different arrangements in respect of other member states of the european union. thirdly, there are several imbalances on the policy side that we need to address: currently eight member states have bilateral investment treaties with canada and this means that only investors from those member states are protected in canada, while others are not. finally, the ceta offers an opportunity for us to introduce reforms to the isds system. it could pave the way for a new era of investment agreements and serve as a model for the rest of the world, and that is a very important argument. i remember well a public meeting in berlin, in which the vice-chancellor, sigmar gabriel, participated and there was a very lively discussion – the kind of discussion i like. (that is why i have been doing politics for 35 years, by the way!) at the end, mr gabriel said there might be some positive elements in the agreement: for example, the fact that it is difficult to refuse isds clauses with the united states or with canada and to ask for them with china. we have to set a template for the rest of the world, and i hope that parliament too, in the course of the discussions on this agreement, will understand that.
thank you very much, commissioner. commissioner de gucht, you have now spoken longer than we expected. but i want to say explicitly that you spoke much less last night than we had planned. i would like to say, for my part, that i greatly appreciate your taking on individual members in a largely free speech manner. i also appreciate that some of the members who had spoken have stayed on, and i think it is very rude to ask a question or to speak in a debate and not wait for the commissioner to answer. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the code)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on access to life-saving medicines in europe (2014/2831 ((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not we are all in favour of protecting human life and therefore of the widest possible distribution and access to life-saving medicines. i would like to make a point regarding the research into these drugs with regard to the use of embryonic stem cells: on 18 october 2011, the european court of justice delivered a very important decision of principle. the ecj has established that human life begins with the fusion of an egg and a sperm. a human being is a human being from the fusion of an egg and a sperm. the court of justice has ruled that any public funds for any interference with, manipulation of or even destruction of this early life must be abolished. this is why embryonic stem cell research is not allowed, and this is exactly what the european citizens' initiative one of us has called for. 1.8 million union citizens have supported this initiative. the european commission, led by the christian democrats, has refused to comment on this issue, let alone take any action against the destruction of human life for research purposes, despite these 1.8 million signatures. when we talk about the production of drugs, we should consider: let us protect human life by distributing life-saving medicines and stop the destruction of human life for research purposes!
member of the commission. - mr president, you will understand why, at this late hour, i will not go into much detail on what you have been saying. needless to say, the sense of what you have suggested and reflected on here tonight will be conveyed to commissioner borg, who is responsible for this portfolio. he will also have people from his team who are listening to this debate and taking notes. as early as tomorrow, experts from the working group and from the member states will meet and discuss this, so that could be one opportunity for member states to try to continue this debate and take it forward. however, i have to say to mr ferreira, who in his closing remarks here talked about the pricing of medicine: i am sorry, but i have to restate that the pricing of medicine is not within eu competence. that does not mean that there is nothing we can do at eu level; there are other things, for instance, the exchange of information. there are other things, and as far as i understand it, the informal health council will actually have this on their agenda at their next meeting. thank you very much for the input. as i said, it will be conveyed to commissioner borg, who is responsible for this area.
the debate is closed.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you on behalf of the presidency for this invitation to speak briefly on the preparations for the euro summit, which the european council in its conclusions of august considered it appropriate to convene this autumn to examine the economic situation. but i should like to be clear from the outset that a debate on the euro summit is premature. in full respect of parliament's assessments and the views that members will wish to express, i would like to make it clear that the euro summit has not been formally convened and no agenda has been set. a more detailed discussion of this matter could take place in october when the preparations for the european council will be examined at a wider level. i would add that the preparation of the euro summits is primarily the responsibility of the president of the euro summit, mr van rompuy, in cooperation with the president of the commission and on the basis of the work of the eurogroup, rather than the italian presidency in this case. in the light of these considerations, and without prejudice to the content of any agenda, i shall be extremely brief. in general terms, i believe that the euro area can usefully assess the causes of the recent loss of growth momentum in a context of low inflation. it is essential that this evaluation be carried out at the highest level. we must be absolutely certain that our strategy to anchor the start of the euro area recovery remains perfectly calibrated to generate growth and jobs throughout the area. this must remain our top priority at all levels and is what the european citizens expect and deserve. in my view, this means ensuring that the right policy mix is implemented in all member states sharing the single currency. we must stimulate our structural reform programme to improve our competitiveness in the global market. we need to bring our public finances back to sustainable levels in a growth-friendly way and we need to restore confidence in the financial sector so that it can support the real economy and facilitate investment. measures in all these areas are well under way in all euro area member states. the italian presidency is working hard to ensure progress in legislative activity at the level of the european union. many initiatives have been taken by the eurogroup and its president, and the european central bank has also recently announced a package of measures in response to the wider macroeconomic context. when multiple activities are under way, it is important to take periodic stock of progress made, it is crucial if we are to be sure that the roadmap and strategies established remain results-oriented and future-oriented, it is essential that they continue to be adapted to the challenges we face, in particular to combat the scourge of unemployment. i am convinced that the strategy adopted for growth in the euro area is the right one, but i also believe that there is always room for improvement. in the context of this budget, the views of the honourable members on how best to achieve our objectives of increasing growth and employment levels are and will be very important. i am ready to listen to all your views and to take advantage of the suggestions and expertise which this parliament will always be able to express.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, thank you for giving me the opportunity today to present to you the position of the commission on the preparation of the euro area summit to take place on 24 october 2014 on the occasion of the european council. the preparations for the summit are still at an early stage. as such, i very much look forward to hearing your views here today on how we can work together to deliver sustainable growth, create jobs and secure the welfare of our citizens. we are currently facing formidable challenges that only serve to underline that we have to do whatever it takes to deliver robust, sustainable growth and jobs in europe. the commission sees three main priorities for economic policy this autumn. at the informal ecofin council last weekend in milan, we had a very fruitful discussion with finance ministers on a number of key issues. going forward will, however, require a joint commitment from the commission, the member states, you in parliament and other partners regarding our shared objectives. the first priority this autumn is supporting investment. europe has a lot to offer in terms of innovation, a skilled labour force and entrepreneurship. in order for all of this to translate into new start-ups around europe, we need to promote investments from both public and private sources and at both national and european level. we are working on a comprehensive plan that addresses both sides of the coin. this must be a joint effort. at national level, countries with large current account surpluses should commit to investing more. in addition, all countries should prioritise investment in research and development and key infrastructures within their public spending mix. at european level, european resources, such as the european budget and the eib, should be used in particular to leverage private investment. we need a stable and robust banking sector and well-functioning capital markets to provide accessible credit to the real economy. the second priority is stepping up reforms that unlock growth potential. without effectively-implemented reforms, we will not have sustainable growth and job creation. it is not about choosing between supply and demand-side measures: both are needed and are complementary. reforms are also needed to secure the sustainability of our welfare societies and ability to protect the vulnerable. no country is immune from the need to reform, although some have more pressing needs. we should use the existing economic governance framework more effectively to support the adoption of the implementation of structural reforms. our fiscal rules do not prevent countries from reforming – far from it. there are many examples of countries that have adopted important reforms in parallel with major fiscal adjustment. nonetheless, there is scope to use our existing economic governance framework more effectively to support countries in their reform efforts. thirdly, we need to continue ensuring sustainable fiscal policies for the sake of confidence and future generations. interest rates will surely not stay at record lows forever. once they rise, public debt will become more costly, again crowding out more valuable public spending and undermining the market confidence we have all worked so hard to regain. the more vulnerable countries would unfortunately be the hardest hit by any new financial market instability. wise choices are therefore required. the pace of fiscal consolidation has slowed significantly since the peak of the sovereign debt crisis. now it is essential to improve the quality of public spending. when money is tight, there is little choice but to make savings, but there is always a choice as to how to make those savings. reducing expenditure rather than raising taxes and cutting inefficient current expenditure rather than future-oriented investments can ensure that consolidation is growth-friendly, fair and supportive of growth creation. a more efficient and citizen-oriented public administration can especially benefit those in need of social support but also promote job creation by enabling a better investment climate. as stated by the euro group last weekend, more efforts are needed to reduce the tax burden on labour. at the same time, we need to ask ourselves what is holding back private investment in europe. we need to ensure that the business climate, our internal market and the regulatory environment are favourable to companies investing in the future: innovating, developing new markets and creating jobs. this ties in with my report on reforms. there is plenty of growth potential in europe that is today held back by rigidities and vested interests. in some member states, starting a business means weeks of cumbersome bureaucratic hurdles. overly-complex tax systems in some member states have contributed to a sizeable grey economy. reforms are needed to deal with these obstacles. this inevitably means changes that require not only thinking outside the box but also stepping out of our comfort zone. europe continues to face great challenges. while there is no silver bullet, i am confident that we can find new sources for growth and to enable us to work together in a spirit of mutual trust. major joint efforts are needed to deliver sustainable economic growth. at the end of the day, we all share the same objective. let us not lose sight of that objective.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not at the last summit, the eurogroup made a clear commitment to the stability and growth pact. the european people's party, of course, expressly welcomes this commitment. some member states are now calling for flexibility. i think that this is also possible, but it is limited to the existing rules. this means that flexibility can only be granted in exceptional circumstances. where flexibility is embedded in the treaties, it is always conditional, on structural reforms which must be actively pursued, and not merely on promises of reforms whose implementation is delayed. this applies to large and small member states alike. the member states cannot turn a blind eye to the need for further reform efforts. the country-specific recommendations of the commission and the council of ministers are based on a comprehensive analysis of what is urgently needed and these recommendations must be implemented. reforms are the foundation for investment to fall on fertile ground and ultimately to generate sustainable growth. the consistent application of the six-pack and the two-pack is an integral part of a policy which is responsible to our citizens and, above all, to future generations. economic history has repeatedly shown us that growth by leaps and bounds cannot succeed in the long run. the mistakes of the past must not be repeated. because growth is different. as the european people's party, we do not want to get our hands on the debt fund. we are instead committed to a comprehensive package of measures that builds on the efficient use of resources, reduces investment barriers, strengthens the competitiveness of our industry and our businesses in europe and gives our citizens an economically viable future. as a co-legislator, we in the european parliament will certainly be a powerful force in shaping these european initiatives in the future. europe has a role to play in maintaining stability and, above all, in achieving more growth and sustainability. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. those were all nice words. it all sounds wonderful. you are calling for flexibility for the debtor countries, you are saying 'no hand in the debt fund', you are calling for reforms. i'm just wondering what planet you're living on. we see that the measures that are being taken, or not taken, are failing grotesquely in all the countries in crisis. the debt crisis is not over, contrary to what the commissioner has just said. i ask you: where do you see the success of the measures now being indicated here? how long are we gonna play this game?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. if you had listened, mrs von storch, you would have understood me. this is a fundamental problem. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) relax, we're here to discuss. i think i have made it very clear that flexibility is possible, but only within the limits of what is provided for. i have no problem with this, but the rules must be the same. of course, we do not live on another planet, but we strive to do so every day. i would be glad if other parties, other groups in this house, would take a similar approach, launching initiatives on a daily basis that will help us to create more growth, that will help us to generate investment in europe. if you say that this is not working, then yes, there are still major problems in europe. but we must also recognize that in some areas - where things have been very difficult in recent years - we now have at least some delicate seedlings that give rise to hope.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i have to say that i was really shocked, shocked to hear you speak here, how you read, with a partly muffled voice, commonplaces from a paper, commonplaces that cannot be empty of content. you want everything at once and you don't care about the contradictions of what you're saying here. they want to have large investment programmes and at the same time they want to have fiscal consolidation. they want to reduce debt and lower taxes at the same time. you want to have supply policy, and you want to have demand policy at the same time. it is not a concept that you have, but your desire to have everything at the same time is nothing but the expression of the helplessness with which you have faced us here as a candidate for the most important commissioner for economic policy. i would now like to comment briefly on the apparent growing public urge to tackle the perceived weakness in investment in the eurozone with large investment programmes. i would remind you that the eurozone entered the crisis because, following the introduction of the euro, the fall in interest rates in the southern european countries made the public sector and private entrepreneurs feel obliged to invest far too much, to invest invest in ways that were not profitable, to invest in ways that did not yield any returns. today, interest rates are many times lower. if private investors are now reluctant to invest, it is because they do not seem to have any prospect of returns on their investments. if private entrepreneurs do not invest because they do not see guaranteed returns, then one must ask what the reasons are. and it was explicitly stated in the opening statement that these issues should be decided at the highest level. the highest level, i would say, is to establish a professional base. i would like to recall the nobel prize winners' meeting in lindau, where the most senior economic leaders made it clear that the eurozone will not emerge from its crisis as long as the euro exists.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i'm not going to say anything. you spoke of the ultra-liberal europe. i wonder what europe you live in. i see an ultra-socialist europe, a europe where debt is communitized, where we talk about communitizing unemployment insurance and about much more mischief to be done. i would ask you to explain to me what is liberal about this europe. if it was liberal, i'd be a big fan.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission tells us that it has no silver bullet. we know that, but you've told us that many times. the commissioner, having no silver bullet, does not explain why we have been shooting in the wrong direction for more than five years. the commission must tell us how it intends to deal with what is general economic expertise. in a single market, in a monetary union, the stronger the economic reaction, the more the member states involved move in the same direction. it is a common knowledge. now, you've spent five years telling us how to work together to reduce budgets. when are you gonna start telling us how to invest together? it is right to talk about investment today. the commission has finally come to terms with the fact that europe has an investment gap. but when will you explain to the member states what a uniform movement could look like so that we can achieve european added value in investment activity as a whole? these are the important issues. no one understands us. the united states does not understand us, the chinese do not understand us, the latin americans do not understand what we are doing, and not even frankfurt, the ecb, understands us. that is why mr draghi must be creative and courageous every now and then to save the eurozone. i would ask the council presidency to include this aspect of equal investment in the joint preparation of the summit activities concerned. it's about time we did. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i am, however, prepared to answer the honourable member's question. if we are going to allow so many blue cards here - and you may wonder whether this is sensible or not - then i would like to take up his very legitimate question. because the fellow is right , of course . it would be much better if we lived in a europe where we had firm agreements that there is a minimum wage in every country, a minimum wage that ensures that every worker can live on what he or she earns and not depend on extra help. my group - the socialist group - is fighting for this. we can only pass on the colleague's appeal to the commission and the council to make a proposal to that effect. that can be arranged in the morning with a handshake. i am very much in favour of this development.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr katainen, the council representative, has just spoken. i must say that i was disappointed at the start of this debate in that we have seen a marked deterioration in the economic situation over the summer and we see that the euro is not well managed and functioning at the moment. that means we've seen over the summer: the ecb has again broken the bank; she's taken steps to try and prevent another breakup. but for two years now we have had the proposals from the four presidents for better governance of the eurozone, for greater integration, for democratic legitimacy, also for the coordination of the various policy areas. i haven't heard anything about that. instead, we have a logic of shift on the agenda. we had a summit right after the summer, and they were talking about personnel and foreign policy. now there was supposed to be this big summit in october. they could not even tell us when the next one will be held, and that in a situation where economic measures are so bad. i can't do that. take your responsibility and implement the plans that have been drawn up for a long time, so that we can really achieve the level of cooperation that we need in the eurozone. then the euro will work well. but you did not present that today, you repeated your old programmes.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, i am disappointed in your remarks. i have been hearing what you said for five years, and i am sure i will hear it again in five years. we're not making any progress. i have the feeling that the commission is blind to what is really going on. barroso has said here in this house that the situation is better than in 2010. the opposite is true. unemployment is rising steadily, total debt is rising steadily, competitiveness has not increased, and this is worse than in 2010. our chancellor has analyzed her austerity policy and reform policy in lindau in front of nobel prize winners. the nobel laureates tore up their speech. they said: "in a recession, further austerity policies will only lead to more recession and more unemployment". you didn't say we needed an investment program. you spoke about the need for a new start in monetary union. the countries must finally be able to do what is in their national interest. this means that as long as we have the euro, there will be difficulties within the monetary union.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. in fact, it is a european catastrophe when we see that in the last five years youth unemployment in europe has increased dramatically. in order to be truly successful, we must also remove the obstacles to the development and processing of programmes by the member states. the crisis countries in particular have problems with co-financing, and that needs to be improved. i also find the procedure far too complicated. the pilot projects presented by the commission last week show some initial progress, but we must also look closely at: how is the money spent locally? is it really being used in a targeted way to reduce youth unemployment? we social democrats are calling for a comprehensive strategy to combat youth unemployment. this includes securing funding beyond 2016, investing in economic growth, creating good jobs and increasing european solidarity, especially with countries in crisis.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. while eu action to tackle high youth unemployment may be welcome, it must be noted that out of 28 member states, 20% of eu countries now have regions where youth unemployment is above 25%. only countries such as finland, austria, the netherlands and germany and a few others are not eligible, although there are regions here in germany, for example north rhine-westphalia , which need support but miss the high 25% mark. i believe that there is a danger that the funds allocated will be used to cover up the problems and to neglect the necessary structural reforms. as with other new eu programmes, such as the banking union or the european unemployment insurance scheme promoted by commissioner andor, this is simply a transfer of funds, preferably from north to south.
madam president, we have heard a lot about the financial implementation of the youth guarantee. the numbers that mr andor has given us show once again that there is a dire need for more money, a demand that my group has already pushed for in the past. in my view, what has been neglected in this debate is the question of youth participation in implementing all these programmes. i think that we need youth organisations and other representatives of young people to be heavily involved in the drafting of the implementation programmes because, otherwise, implementation will not meet the needs of young people. but what do we see happening in many eu member states? the exact opposite. the financial and organisational capacities of precisely these stakeholders are being limited and are being silenced in discussions on the implementation of the youth guarantee. i would like to appeal to mr andor and the new commission to ensure that the voices of young people are heard in the discussion and youth organisations are ... (the president cut off the speaker)
ladies and gentlemen, i'd like you to take a seat. i am not going to go into detail. early on the morning of september 1, 75 years ago, world war ii began with the invasion of neighboring poland by nazi germany. a world fire was set, fuelled by a mad ideology which, in its destructive rage, in its madness of master-man, sought to destroy other countries on the grounds of a policy of habitat. other countries were to be exploited, enslaved, whole peoples were to be exterminated. radicalisation followed, leading to what has been called the "total war". a cynical pact between hitler and stalin had preceded that led to two armies invading poland, germany invading russia and bringing tremendous suffering to the country, with the result that six years later germany was completely destroyed. 60 million dead, fallen on battlefields, starved in prison camps, civilians, men, women, old people, children, arbitrarily murdered, systematically exterminated, driven from their homes, died miserably on the streets, fallen on battlefields, despoiled and ravaged by incendiary bombs, fallen into the salves of guns, executed on the gallows or sent to the gas chambers - the lowest point in the history of civilization, the genocide of the jews, the murder of the roma and sinti. ladies and gentlemen, this breakdown of civilization still casts its shadow today. we remember atrocities that took place thousands of years ago. how can we believe that almost 70 years after this breakdown of civilization, something could be forgotten? we are all still - every day - under the impact of this devastating war and its effects. the result of this war was the will of the generations who had lived through the first and second world wars to create an order in europe that would make it impossible for this to happen again. the transnational cooperation of peoples across borders - and not just physical borders, but across economic, cultural and religious borders - the will to cooperate has created the europe we have today. and this multinational parliamentary assembly is the result of that will. here, the representatives of the european nations sit together in a free self-determination. in our parliament we have representatives of different religions, different races, different political persuasions, different cultures and nations, but we are united in our desire to ensure that this does not happen again on our continent. it is a miracle that reconciliation has succeeded on this continent after all that has happened in our europe. i am always fascinated and captivated by the fact that when i come to this chamber i see that we are creating a europe of free self-determination, a europe that has succeeded in overcoming war and hunger, in breaking down borders and walls, in overcoming the artificial divisions created by the yalta agreement, and that is living together in a united europe today. the miracle of european unity can help us to prevent such a human catastrophe from happening again. ladies and gentlemen, we have no guarantee of that. we didn't magically take the war out of the world. it exists. we have created institutions and structures that make it likely that war will never return to our people. but that's because we have these transnational structures. if we crush them, there is also the danger that ultra-nationalism, hatred, racial hatred, the madness of the gentry can return to europe. we have created an immune system against war, but we have not eliminated war. and there are people in europe who are afraid of war again. once again, borders are being shifted unilaterally on our continent. we have to be careful. peace and freedom are the great privileges of the post-war generation to which i belong. i am one of those germans who have not taken on any individual guilt - i was born after the war - but who have an individual responsibility which i want to live up to - just like everyone else who knows that peace, tolerance and respect only have their effect if they are not written on paper but put into practice on a daily basis. the great strength of this parliament is that we do just that. the european parliament therefore has a special responsibility to recognize that peace, tolerance and solidarity must be defended anew every day, because they are threatened anew every day. the work of this multinational parliamentary assembly is therefore a good instrument - not the only one, but a good instrument - for defending our europe of respect and peace. in the memory of the victims of the second world war, it should be our common task to consider peace in europe, tolerance and respect as our primary task. (applause) 'the president gives the member technical instructions for the subsequent 360° photograph.'
before we go to the votes, i have a request to make to you, ladies and gentlemen. at the end of the votes, when we have finished all the votes, i would ask you to remain seated for a short moment because i have an important announcement to make. the next item is the vote on the motions for resolutions. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
ladies and gentlemen, i'd like your attention for a moment. as you know, at the plenary session of 16 july mrs korwin-mikke made statements which are not in accordance with the rules of procedure of the european parliament. it was a racial slur. i have reviewed the minutes of this meeting and asked mr korwin-mikke to comment on his remarks. i asked him to correct his remarks or to apologize. he refused to do so in a personal conversation with me on 9 september. he insists on his position. members of the european parliament are particularly obliged to refrain from making any racist or discriminatory remarks which are discriminatory or which are contrary to human dignity. i have therefore decided, pursuant to rule 166, to impose a penalty on mr korwin-mikke of ten days' wages, which i will withdraw from him. (applause from the centre) the member may object to this decision within 14 days of its notification. i'll have to rule on the contradiction.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make one more appeal. we have heard a great deal about ebola, about the impact and also about the needs that we have to give to these countries now. because the aid agencies there, as well as the national governments there, are completely overwhelmed, completely overloaded. this is not just an act of solidarity. there's more to this than that. it is simply our duty to really make available everything we have at our disposal. mr goerens has already mentioned this: we also have military equipment, we have military personnel that we can put at the disposal of the united nations here or under the command of the united nations there, under the oslo guidelines. this is staff who can also work in a good hierarchy, in a good command structure there and who are very well trained. we need to get this now. we cannot wait any longer if we want to stop this and prevent this humanitarian catastrophe from spreading or even allowing it to take place. it is really my appeal to all the member states of the european union to act here now. we can't discuss this any longer. we know the consequences of not being able to contain ebola. eir know that it's much more than a health problem. i don't want to repeat this. but i would like to get rid of this urgent appeal once again. because we can also show these people on the ground that we are connected to them not just with our thoughts, but with our actions and with our truly consistent actions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i myself worked for a time as a doctor in a developing country. so i can sense how my colleagues who are fighting ebola right now feel, and how the patients feel. i have great respect for all those who are helping out on the ground. i find it indecent that some colleagues in this house are taking advantage of this difficult situation for partisan politics. what we have just heard about cuba and so on is unbearable to me in view of the plight of the people there. we shouldn't be politicizing this. (applause from the centre) it's not that people in europe have to be afraid of being infected themselves. it's good that we take in people who have helped, and that we give them the assurance that they'll be treated well even then. people in europe can feel safe about an infection - according to human judgment, which i can judge as a doctor. however, it is not only a humanitarian imperative that we help in west africa, but it is also, and above all, in our long-term interest. because there are several states that are about to implode. there are dramatic crises going on there, and we have enough crises in the world, god knows. it is therefore in our interest to support these countries and to do everything in our power to help them. it is therefore good that the commission, madam commissioner, and many others have helped us to increase the funds. but i also want to point out that we're going to have a budget problem. i have heard from the member states, including my own, several times in the last few days: we must do more in ukraine, we must do more in iraq, and of course we must do more in west africa, palestine and so on. giovanni la via, our rapporteur on the budget - he is sitting here - , reimer böge and others have always said: our budget is not designed for crises. we really need to talk to the council now about being more flexible so that we can respond appropriately to such crises.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we had a hearing with commissioner borg in the environment committee, where we again made a massive call for more investment in research. i must say, i find it most regrettable. the member states have been very reluctant to finance such exceptional events as ebola, when epidemics occur. now all of a sudden europe is called upon to act. but if we don 't have the money ... better late than never, we have to tell the council now that there's movement. but we have to do better in the future. we have already heard from a colleague that this is not helping a sick person in africa, or someone who has helped, but that it must get better. we must move faster, we must prepare ourselves for the fact that such epidemics will be more frequent, and europe must help and not lament for long, but take action to improve the situation, including through research and development. we must think about how we can improve there and take a more active approach in the future.
- i'm not sure. i have a specific question on the third point you mentioned. they said that the virus had to be fought and isolated, not the countries, and they were extremely pleased that european airlines would continue to fly to these countries. i would like to hear from you whether this is a responsible or an irresponsible action on your part. because the virus doesn't stop. once it lands in brussels or berlin or paris, we will no longer be able to deal with the other countries. so my specific question is: are these people being studied? is there any way to investigate this place when the planes land? or is it being considered to isolate them until it is certain that this disease is not spreading? otherwise, i agree with everyone here - i think - in the house that this is not a good time for populism. because if we don't act now, and the virus has already reached europe, we won't be able to help anyone.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we support this resolution on iraq and syria, partly because it highlights the need for a coordinated eu policy. the fight against isis in iraq and syria is going to take a long time. many aspects of a strategy still need to be developed further, and the resolution identifies the most important ones. this includes preventing hundreds of eu citizens from registering as is fighters. combating extremism in europe means, among other things, taking a serious look at social exclusion and lack of prospects among young adults. the crimes of the terrorist militia islamic state are extremely cruel and heinous. in iraq ... (microphone fails) yesterday, un syria investigator pinheiro presented his eighth syria report to the un human rights council, and it details some of the crimes committed by is. he says that the jihadists not only executed the two foreign journalists in public, but that they are killing many syrians in the same way in public places in the north and east of the country. the is systematically exposes children to violence. they are encouraged to participate in executions and are allegedly confronted with crucifixions in public places. women accused of adultery or found in public without male escort were stoned to death. so much for the report. however, pinheiro also stresses that the syrian government is still responsible for the majority of crimes committed against civilians in syria. i would like to take this opportunity to remind us once again that there must be no impunity for all these crimes - crimes against humanity and war crimes - that are being committed in syria and iraq, and i therefore call once again for the international criminal court in the hague to investigate the war crimes there. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but what we are firmly opposed to, also in this resolution, is uncontrollable, unregulated military action. we must not give military operations carte blanche, because we must not repeat the disastrous mistakes of the so-called fight against terrorism that we have just witnessed.
i have to say, madam president, the murder of two american journalists and the violent death of british development worker david haines have made it clear to all in europe what the yazidis, arameans, shiites and christians in the region are going through. the barbaric ideology of the islamic state, which is spreading by force, is despicable, abhorrent and must be fought. i am therefore glad that progress has been made at the paris conference, that there is a determination, particularly on the part of the united states and france, to help in a very practical way with reconnaissance flights and air strikes. i would like the united kingdom to be involved. and i would like my own country - i see this differently from colleagues who have spoken here - to do the same, that germany also participates, and not just with arms supplies. we have seen in the past that such arms deliveries are often directed against those who make the arms deliveries with the best of intentions. i think that's wrong. i thought it was right to support the iraqi armed forces as well as the iraqi government in protecting the integrity of their territory. the united nations must also be made more accountable. resolution 2710 has been considerably weakened. i do not know what was decisive, but the discussions were certainly not sufficient to achieve a good result and a strong mandate for the united nations. the emir of qatar is visiting berlin today and has said that qatar does not support the islamic state financially. i'm glad you did. there's no reason not to believe him. but then i ask the state, the emir of qatar, to also ensure that other islamist movements in the arab world are not financed from doha. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you for asking. we are not at present in a position to provide a military response from an eu context. this is the reality. i would definitely prefer that. but until that happens, the member states must act on their individual responsibility as members of the united nations, not as members of nato. this is not an attack on nato territory. i therefore see a responsibility here for the protection of the united nations charter, but not for the protection of the north atlantic treaty. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank mr glezos. you can go back a long way in causation. you can go back to the sykes-picot agreement and the middle east political order. but i think the immediate cause was, in fact, the lack of inclusiveness of the last iraqi prime minister's leadership, which systematically favored the shiites over the sunnis, which led many sunni families and clans to join isis, which they would not have done otherwise. in the current situation it is now crucial that the political process in iraq also offers a prospect for the sunnis. i think the new prime minister has taken the first right steps in this direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we will have to deal not only with the situation in the region of iraq and the surrounding regions in syria and so on, but we will have to deal above all with how we deal with the difficult phenomenon of transnational fighters, also called foreign fighters. first of all, we must find out what are the reasons why ordinary young people, who have come to us not only through mass immigration, as is claimed, but who were partly born and raised among us, turn to terrorism, which involves incredible brutality. we now have a young man who killed himself at the age of 20, blew himself up and killed 50 other people. analysing these backgrounds is necessary to prevent salafists and is terrorists from gaining further support. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules. it is necessary to impose travel bans on known salafists and those with terrorist tendencies. we need to have the most intensive exchange of information and close cooperation between the security and constitutional authorities of the member states and the european institutions, because we will be faced with thousands of foreign fighters in the near future. we will have to consider how to protect our citizens better and optimally.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, a question: where is the eu foreign minister, catherine ashton, in this important debate on the horrors in iraq and syria? last week the patriarch of baghdad said in parliament what the minorities there need: they need military protection. we cannot offer them that as a parliament. but there is something we can do, and i think we must do, and that is to stir up the public. and that is why we, the ecr group, propose that this year's sakharov prize be dedicated to the persecuted christians in iraq. we would like to present the prize to professor mahmoud al-asali, a muslim intellectual. he came out as a muslim to the christians, and he was murdered by isis for it. let's give him the posthumous award of martyrdom! and to louis raphael sako, the patriarch of baghdad. he is the face of persecuted christians in iraq and thus the voice of persecuted christians in the arab world. i ask my colleagues in all the political groups to support this proposal. i am glad that my colleague anna záborská has also brought this proposal to the epp group. as we speak, people are being killed for their faith. let's stand up to it, no matter what or who we believe in.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, our group fully supports the resolution and supports the eu in increasing its efforts to counter the escalation of violence and armed confrontation in libya. in particular we call on the eu to spare no efforts to support the united nations and other non-military initiatives to settle the current crisis in particular and to step up its humanitarian aid to respond to the plight of the libyan population. as things stand now, we must state that the european union has failed to develop and implement a comprehensive strategy for assisting in the post-gadaffi transition. we deplore the persistent lack of coordination between eu member states’ policies towards libya. in the field of security the eu has a limited focus on border and migration management which did not address the root causes of insecurity in libya. we urge the eu to develop a broad concept for the reform of the security sector in libya with a special focus on parliamentary oversight of the sector, including strong elements of human rights and humanitarian law training. the eu should further assist in the demobilisation, disarmament and reintegration of former combatants and in the collection and destruction of the many irregular weapons in the country. it should make full use of the instrument for stability and peace with regard to mediation. even in such a difficult situation as the one now in libya, it is also absolutely necessary that the eu supports the empowerment of civil society organisations, in particular women’s groups, aiming at finding non-violent solutions to the multiple crises in the country. finally, let me express grave concern at the fate of migrants, asylum seekers and refugees in libya whose already precarious situations have further deteriorated. we have ongoing reports on horrific detention conditions for thousands of migrants and refugees – including in government-run centres – and we ask the eu to consider withholding financial support in this sector until this has been investigated. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – my response is that regardless of whether they are from the region or from another region, i think military intervention in another country without the consent of the un security council is against international law. for me the biggest problem is not that the us was not consulted, but that those countries could go ahead and this was not the space for debate at the un itself.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i wonder what more needs to be done to prevent double standards from being applied in this parliament. so if we look at what we heard yesterday about russia, ukraine and about violations of international law, imagine if russian bombers bombed kiev or another ukrainian city, attacked 244 schools, attacked 500 children, attacked hundreds of women and families. what would happen in this parliament? and the same thing that would have happened in this parliament would have to happen now, when it comes to israel, if there was to be peace. it is not possible that a power can always get away with just explanations. if you believe that sanctions are worthwhile, then they should be applied against israel. the title of the resolution is very well written: 'israel and palestine after the gaza conflict and the role of the eu'. it should be 'israel and palestine after the israeli massacres in gaza'. then action would have to be taken and not just explanations.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the general problem is not just between israel and gaza, but the problem is in the entire middle east. we were sitting together before, and the middle east was discussed. what do you say we just take responsibility for once? the palestinian people are not the only ones who are suffering from the horrors of the war in the middle east. we have refugee camps in jordan and in syria. hundreds of children are starving in syria. i haven't seen that statistic in you. these are un camps where we can take responsibility. what do you think about us first taking action through the un, taking responsibility there and creating better conditions for the palestinian refugees there?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. this report shows that there are many positive developments in the eu's human rights work, particularly in the structures and methods that have been put in place. but it is a continuing challenge to work on policy coherence, as eu foreign policy is also a field of economic interest. the positive thing is that all eu delegations have now appointed human rights focal points. some have also set up contact points specifically for human rights defenders. this has a real impact on the work of the activists on the ground, and the feedback we get from parliament is encouraging. we had a conference in berlin about a week ago on the 10 years of eu guidelines for the protection of human rights defenders. here, too, we heard that this is being viewed very positively by local activists. it was noted that the work should be further expanded, especially in rural areas, and in particular the support for women human rights defenders should be expanded, not least those who are committed to self-determined female careers. the work of the special representative, mr lambrinidis, is presented in a positive light in the report. i can only emphasize this. the european union is a major player in the world of human rights, both in its exchanges with individual countries and in multilateral fora. i can only encourage you, mr lambrinidis, to continue this work in this spirit with such focus and determination. but when i look at the eu trade agreements and the task of applying criteria for the application of the human rights clause in them, i am very sceptical. my question is therefore: how consistently will we apply this clause, especially if there is also a trade agreement with so-called strategic partners? i would also like to ask the question: what is the commission going to do now? will it change anything, including its dealings with strategic partner russia? we also repeatedly address the results - or rather the lack of results - of existing eu human rights dialogues. the report makes very concrete proposals for improvement in this area. i hope these will work. there is also talk of an impact assessment of individual human rights protection measures. i also see this as a positive development, but we must of course look at the concrete and individual aspects of these impact assessments. what is the practice, for example, in china? but i would also like to link this to a specific criticism of an impact assessment on the investment agreement with burma, the so-called gsb+. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. parliament has already called on the commission to commit itself to the new gsb+ rules in the case of burma. i also see a need for action here in parliament on the implementation of the gsb+ rules. it would be very important that the human rights committee, together with the trade committee, be consulted when considering delegated acts in the gsp+ under the new rules. the report deals with the subject of business and human rights. there are sensible actions here, such as the human rights guidelines for three business areas. we shall see later this morning that this is important, because it concerns the work of human rights activists in azerbaijan and their threatening situation because they are messing with the oil and gas industry. the aim here, of course - and i think we have a disagreement very often between my group and the commission - is to have binding human rights rules in the long term on business conduct. volunteering is good, but it's not enough. then you can also see clearly, if you look at the action plan, that the measures listed for economic and cultural rights are much lower than those in the area of civil and political rights. we also ask you to ensure that there is a little more balance in the future. in conclusion, we discussed yesterday the resolution on the fight against the terrorist militia of the islamic state. the commission must ensure that the mistakes of the past in the so-called war on terror are not repeated and that the measures taken are always in line with international law and human rights standards.
i have to say, madam president, we are talking about european human rights policy, and therefore also european foreign and security policy. we have a high commissioner for this, and i have three questions: how many people even know we have an eu foreign minister? who knows the name of this foreign minister? in germany, 85% of the people don't even know the name of jean-claude juncker! who knows the face of the high representative? i bet she could sit in this chamber and some of the members wouldn't notice. on 23 june, the council stated that the eu's human rights policy had been strengthened. there are guidelines for the defence of freedom of religion and belief. the eu even has a commissioner for human rights, and he is supposedly here today. in syria and iraq, islamist mass murderers play football with the severed heads of christians and other minorities. children are being crucified and i think there are women who wished to die. has the foreign minister made her point? what do we hear from the human rights commissioner here in the world? silence in my ears, deafening. i propose we delete both posts and send the millions saved to christians and other persecuted minorities in iraq and syria.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - madam president, i would like to thank honourable members for this very fruitful debate. i can assure you that your constructive remarks are well noted and will be duly considered. we take note of your recommendation to support and step up cooperation with the european ombudsman. it is an excellent idea and complements our determination to support civil society. i fully agree with you that we need to develop indicators to measure the impact of our actions. this is precisely one of our objectives and we look forward to discussing this issue with you, including in the contact group, to which we are committed. thank you also for your positive words about our work on human rights defenders around the world and your appreciation for the excellent work done by special representative stavros lambrinidis. rest assured that we make every effort to make our human rights dialogues result-oriented and to see that all agreements contain effective human rights clauses, as foreseen in our action plan, and to broaden our action beyond civil and political rights to economic cultural and social rights. i would like to assure you that we are making – and shall be making – every effort to alleviate the plight of christian communities and ethnic minorities in the middle east and worldwide. those responsible must be made accountable. i fully agree that future annual reports should be the outcome of active and constructive discussions among eu institutions. this also means that, during this exercise, we should seek full use of parliamentary diplomacy in promoting human rights in the world. we could not agree more that maximising our internal-external coherence is of huge importance. if we want our policies to be fully efficient in this process, the role of parliament is vital. mainstreaming human rights into all our external policies, especially into development policy, is an ongoing process and, despite progress so far, it is imperative that we step up our efforts. let me underline once more our engagement to continue to work in this direction together with all stakeholders, including the commission and parliament. our achievements are numerous but our endeavours are not finished. we need to continuously fight against all actions that threaten the universality, indivisibility and interdependence of human rights. we need to voice further our human rights concern with our partners at all levels and in all forms of dialogues and contacts. challenges do not only come from the outside, which is why we will strive to achieve the most challenging objective – integrating human rights in all eu external policies such as trade, development, conflict prevention, counter-terrorism and other areas. we have made progress but need to continue to work in that direction, including a human-rights-based approach to development and in business, together with parliament, the commission, member states, civil societies and other stakeholders. we can all be proud that these past years illustrate a strengthened eu human rights policy. today we can be proud of our achievements but should also renew our engagement to address the many challenges we have around the world. let me conclude by praising once more the proactive role of parliament on human rights and reiterating our commitment to work closely with it.
the debate on this subject has been closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law (rule 135 of the rules of procedure). the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the persecution of human rights activists in azerbaijan [2014/2832(rsp) ].
that's the vice president's prerogative. thank you very much.
a writer. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. in may 2012, baku, the capital of azerbaijan, was the venue for the eurovision song contest. the event's motto: light your fire. even then, the country was criticized; human rights organizations have long complained of democratic deficits. women, children and the elderly are particularly affected, as always. only in recent weeks have human rights violations shocked even experienced azerbaijani experts. i'm glad we're naming and condemning these incidents here in this house. i expect the new european commission to be a clear voice for human rights as an integral part of our neighbourhood policy and, in particular, of our economic policy. it was anke engelke, the german presenter of the eurovision song contest 2012, who was the only one among 47 television professionals who had the courage to criticize the human rights situation in azerbaijan during the awarding of points. i quote: "it is good to be able to vote. it's good to have a choice. good luck on your trip, azerbaijan! europe is watching you. i would like to add that the people and human rights defenders in azerbaijan, europe is also on your side today. and i want to encourage all of us: light your fire for human rights!
author. - madam president, it is good to see you there and i regret that we will not have this opportunity for much longer but congratulations on your appointment. the situation in azerbaijan is extremely worrisome. due to the crisis in ukraine, the middle east, iraq, we have been looking at other places but it is good that we now turn our attention to this country where the situation for human rights defenders has got worse and worse. the government has intensified its already authoritarian crackdown on independent political and other public voices in azerbaijan. according to human rights watch and according to freedom house, the authorities have imprisoned at least 40 political activists, human rights defenders, journalists and others, on various trumped-up charges including drug possession, tax evasion and even treason in the last two years. in a dramatic escalation since last july the government rounded up the country’s most senior human rights and other public figures, imprisoning them on politically-motivated charges. these include leyla yunus, the well-known director of the institute for peace and democracy, and her husband, the historian arif yunus, rasul jafarov, chair of azerbaijan’s human rights club, and intigam aliyev, the highly respected chair of the legal education society. they were all part of a group compiling a comprehensive list of victims of politically-motivated arrests in azerbaijan. now they are on that list. in addition, the governmentʼs already tough restrictions on the activities of non-governmental organisations have been further tightened. many groups have been effectively forced to shut down after their bank accounts were frozen or their sources of funding blocked. on the other hand, azerbaijan is making the most of new opportunities to boost its international profile. in a perverse twist – there is no other word to express it – azerbaijan in may assumed a prestigious position in europe’s leading human rights body, the rotating chairmanship of the committee of ministers of the council of europe, and on 24 june president ilham aliyev used his speech before the council’s permanent assembly in strasbourg to deny any human rights problems and to call his critics liars. only four weeks later all his critics were proven right.
i have to say, madam president, we therefore ask that, in agreement with the other groups, the words 'on the ground' be replaced by 'in ukraine' at the end of amendment no 10.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to make a point of order concerning this resolution. we received it last night at 8 p.m.: 27 pages, for those who do not speak english, in english. 27 pages, english, received: last night at 8 pm at our place. we voted on this at noon today. i would therefore like to say on the record that this is not the way to deal with this parliament. (applause from the centre and the right)
i have to say, madam president, why are we first voting on the resolution of a single group when there is a joint resolution of several groups - the epp, s&d, ecr and alde/greens? the second question is: we want to restrict the votes by name to those which are really important. in the vote on this motion by one group, each vote shall be by roll call. can you explain why?
i have to say, madam president, can we not vote en bloc on this if no one objects? (applause from the centre)
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 18 september 2014.
ladies and gentlemen, in view of the current situation in northern ireland, the conference of presidents has asked me to call on all sides, on behalf of the european parliament, to refrain from dangerous mutual provocations. attempts to disrupt the peace process must be stopped immediately. there can only be one answer to political problems: a peaceful solution through dialogue. we therefore call on all parties to continue to participate in the peaceful settlement and thus in the new round of talks launched on 16 october. the northern ireland peace process is a successful european project. we will continue to support this peace process. the european parliament is also prepared to act as an honest and independent mediator in this process. we want this peace process to be crowned with further successes. and we are helping northern ireland to build stable institutions and a stable economy so that all the people in this part of our continent, in northern ireland, can look forward to a secure future.
ladies and gentlemen, i should like to inform you that last thursday i was informed in writing by mrs iveta grigule that she had left the efdd group with immediate effect. i informed the conference of presidents on the same day that, as a result of this step, the efdd no longer fulfilled the conditions laid down in the rules of procedure for the formation of a political group, as it no longer had members from at least seven countries. the efdd has thus lost its group status.
the formation of political groups is governed by the rules of procedure of this house. rule 32 of the rules of procedure provides for the formation of political groups. if the basic condition for the formation of a political group members from at least seven countries is not met, the group ceases to exist. the president of parliament merely notes this fact. i have told the conference of presidents that and nothing more. you lost your party status. if a new group is formed in this house, rules of procedure are also laid down for that purpose, namely: members from at least seven countries, all of whom must sign individually that they will join that group. if that is the case, i can be informed and i will then make the appropriate arrangements on the basis of the rules of procedure. that is my job, and that is what i do. the order of seating is laid down in a decision of the conference of presidents.
the final draft agenda for this meeting, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 16 october 2014 in accordance with rule 149 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft:
thank you very much, mr. member. i think that's clear. first of all, amendments of this kind to the rules of procedure must be tabled by 4 p.m. that is what the rules of procedure say. but as you are a new member of this house, i would point this out to you. i can accept that for today. the translation of the one-minute speeches on important political issues is not for content reasons but for purely formal reasons. we have two hearings to fill positions in the commission tonight. that is why the conference of presidents has, by way of exception, postponed the one-minute speeches, because we must reserve the infrastructure and capacity for the hearings if we are to vote on the commission on wednesday. so there are no substantive reasons, as you suggest, but purely formal ones.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to point out very briefly an error in the agenda, at least in the german translation. it says wednesday, 12 o'clock, the european commission elections. this is clearly a mistake. please check this in the other translations. article 17 (7) of the eu treaty explicitly states that national governments elect their representatives to the european commission. we, the parliament, can then confirm this, and we can only confirm it en bloc 28 members en bloc. we cannot elect the commissioners. so that's why i'd appreciate it if you'd correct that. (applause from the centre)
i'm sure that's an interesting variation. article 118 of parliament's rules of procedure provides for the election of the commission by parliament.
- i'm not going to die. i understand that, but it has nothing to do with the rules of procedure. i am sorry that you have not been able to reach me or my services by telephone. i wanted to let you know that this house has infrastructure. so you can do this by e-mail. then we'll get back to you. but we'll tell you how. monday: no changes to the work schedule. tuesday:
thank you very much, mr arthuis. the commission has already decided to do so in agreement with the political groups. we reached agreement in the conference of presidents among the political groups that draft amending budget no 2 for 2014 will be tabled before the debate on the general budget for 2015. so your wish has already been granted in advance. i am grateful to you for pointing out the real situation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. wednesday:the ecr group has asked for a statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative for foreign affairs and security policy on the death penalty for asia bibi to be placed on the agenda for wednesday as the third item without a resolution.
i would like to speak in favour of the motion. there you go.
thank you very much, mrs. björk. does anyone wish to speak against this motion? that's not the case. then i'll put the motion to a vote. who is in favour of putting this as the third item on the agenda for the high representative's statements? i'm asking for a sign. (parliament adopted the resolution)
the request from mr van dalen was that mrs ashton should add a third item to the list of statements she will make next wednesday, as a statement by the high representative, namely the case of the condemnation of asia bibi to death. this motion has been supported by mrs björk. no one has spoken against it. mrs björk, in reply to my question 'who would like to support the motion?' you specifically spoke and said that you wanted a wider debate. there is no debate more extensive than the statement made by the high representative in a plenary debate here in the house. what do you want? what do you want? you have to substantiate that and say what you want more broadly.
i understand that now. i understood your statement to mean that, nevertheless, because you had come forward in support of the request for an oral question, i admit that in principle this is not support for this request, but an alternative proposal. mrs björk, i had the impression that the overwhelming majority in the house was in favour of mr van dalen's motion. i would therefore say that we are keeping an eye on what you want, namely a wider debate on the question of the death penalty. in fairness, it wouldn't be the first time this house has been run in a broader way. i think that the commission has a duty to do something about this. but if you insist, mrs björk, i can gladly put your proposal to the vote again. (mrs björk replied in the affirmative.) so that's what you want. the further request is that of mrs björk, namely not to debate the individual case but to have a general debate on the death penalty. (parliament rejected the proposal) ) i shall then put mr van dalen's motion to the vote again. (parliament adopted the resolution) thursday: no changes to the work schedule. (the agenda is therefore adopted.)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on better flood prevention and management at european level (2014/2897 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank all members of parliament for firmly keeping your attention on this extraordinary crisis. i was here just less than five weeks ago, on 17 september, and in this short period of time the number of cases has almost doubled. there were 4 963 people sick then, and there are now 9 191. similarly, the number of people who have lost their lives has almost doubled, from 2 453 to 4 546. unfortunately, a very high number of health professionals are affected, with 427 doctors and nurses sick and, of those, 230 have lost their lives trying to save the lives of others. if we do not act in a very determined manner, by mid-december we might already have 10 000 cases per week – in other words as many in one week as have been accumulated since 21 march when the epidemic started. the longer the epidemic lasts, not only do more people die, but it is hugely destructive for the economies of the affected countries. the world bank predicts that it would cost eur 7.5 billion in losses this year and up to eur 25 billion – basically wiping out the economies of the countries – in 2015. but there is also some good news. senegal and – as of today – nigeria are ebola-free. regarding the case we had in spain – the first case of infection by ebola within europe – we had good news that the nurse may be on the road to recovery. most importantly, since i was last here international attention and action have surged, including from us in the european union. we have more than doubled funding to fight ebola. when i was last here it stood at eur 227 million. today it is over eur 500 million, and more will be coming in pledges in the days to come. of this, eur 180 million is from the commission, which is eur 30 million more than last time around. we have addressed a very serious constraint making it harder for more people to go there – and as europeans we should be proud because there are hundreds of volunteers, doctors and nurses, who want to be trained and sent to west africa. but to do so they expect medical evacuation. we now have in the commission a contract for medical evacuation, and member states such as the uk, germany, and italy are also going to join. i am very proud of the efforts of the uk and france in sierra leone and in guinea, as well as germany and others that are stepping up – not just funding, but bringing teams and beds so we can fight ebola together. last, but not least, we have significantly increased our delivery of in-kind assistance – protective gear, equipment. three planes are leaving within a week to help unicef have the necessary equipment and in-kind assistance in the field. i will now pass the ball to tonio, who will use the remaining one minute and fifteen seconds to finish our presentation.
member of the commission. - mr president, i shall be extremely concise. what have we done and what more should we do? first of all, as regards what we have done, and here i am referring to the internal dimension, because the european commissioner for health is of course responsible for what happens as regards health on european territory now. a network of high-security laboratories has been activated to ensure that all member states can use them to diagnose ebola. we have mapped all – by ‘we’, i mean the health security committee which was recently established for cross-border health threats – we have mapped all the health facilities in the european union which are equipped to treat ebola patients. we have drawn up together, within the health security committee, joint information for travellers, joint messages and joint criteria to diagnose ebola. we provide independent scientific assessment and guidance to the member states through the european centre for disease prevention and control. only last thursday we had an informal meeting of health ministers – about 22 health ministers attended – where it was agreed to strengthen medical screening at exit points in liberia, sierra leone and guinea and to coordinate national measures on entry screening. i am saying this because different countries have different views on entry screening. but, as regards exit screening, we decided to strengthen it and to that end, in collaboration with the who, the commission will in the next few days audit exit screening in those countries and strengthen such screening systems as necessary. the member states have agreed to step up awarenes-raising campaigns at eu entry points, and we shall establish a network of volunteer clinicians with experience in treating ebola patients in europe as an infection control measure. i am pleased to inform parliament that the research and innovation commissioner, under horizon 2020, will approve 25 million euros for research on candidate vaccines. as you know, there are already vaccines also being financed by the european commission, but we need to speed up approval of vaccines for human consumption.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. toward the end of my medical training, i spent time working in a crisis area in central america. i can understand a little how the colleagues, the medical staff in general and, above all, the people affected feel. but what is happening in west africa today is something that i don't think we have all experienced, and we have a hard time empathizing with the people who are affected. i have tremendous respect for the doctors, nurses and others who go out there and put their own lives at greater risk than we normally know from other situations. although it is not possible to exclude a risk to the european population, i think it is very important that we offer our help to the people who are helping, if they themselves become infected, and that they are then also treated in our high-quality medical centres in europe. you have to minimize the risk, but you can't eliminate it 100 percent. i would like to thank the commission for all that they have done. keep going! keep fighting! one final thought. i've noticed -- at least in my country -- that we have a shockingly low public willingness to donate. the charities complain that they don't get enough donations. we should call for this, but we should also set a good example ourselves. we must all do everything now, politically of course, but also personally, to support the people who are fighting the crisis there, not only morally but also financially and also with our personal money.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not in the debate in september we drew up the very scenario we are now faced with. the aid to the countries concerned has been too slow, too little, and the early warnings of the aid organizations have been perceived far too late. and now a horror scenario is unfolding if we do not really, very quickly, make available all that we have and bring it to the countries and places where it is needed now. there are at least two things we need to learn from this scenario now. first, we need globally coordinated, well-coordinated epidemic response systems so that we can really respond to early signs when needed, respond appropriately, and not have to meet in conferences and summits. secondly, we need efficient and functional health systems and we need to see and recognise this as a global challenge. we have a great responsibility as industrialized countries, otherwise we will always be left with the same problem.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. first of all, we must show respect and humility for the work of the doctors and nurses who are willing to go to the hospitals every day in the three countries concerned, to go to the field infirmary every day. it is very important that we point this out. this is an incredible achievement, these are now the true heroes in the fight against ebola. we must also think about development policy. we are dealing with three states that have all had three civil wars, which were fragile. we have to ask ourselves: have we spent enough development aid to organize good governance there? have we spent enough money to build health systems? the examples of nigeria and senegal show that with good structures, ebola can be fought. i hope that we will work sustainably in development policy.
in writing. the ebola epidemic is unique in its scale. this disaster is the main cause of the suffering of thousands of people in the republic of guinea, liberia and sierra leone. i therefore support the european parliament in its call on the commission to step up the fight against the virus and to increase the eu funds for this purpose. the risk of further spread must be reduced and controls at airports must be strengthened. to contain the virus, we in europe must act quickly and in coordination with the rest of the world.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. another one of those media-heavy summits, again nothing substantially new. by pushing back and forth the black peter - whose fault is it in europe that we are not making progress in combating youth unemployment - we are not helping the young people of europe. i thank the italian presidency for really focusing on growth and employment, because without growth we will not create new jobs in europe. the member states must finally ensure that young people in europe have a perspective. how long will it take before we finally have a truly sustainable and coherent strategy for implementing the youth guarantee? it also has to be about making concrete changes: where is something blocking, where is something not fitting in with the implementation at the moment? we can't have money not coming in. some people are already saying that we won't need any money in the future. i call on the member states to do something! i am not saying that we should not be concerned. qualify the young people! we need the perspective for europe!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we must stop talking about the symptoms of youth unemployment and start talking about the causes. my message to you today is that the eurozone is dying. instead of curing the economy, the heads of state and government and the european commission are trying to save the euro. in the meantime, my country, germany, is also being infected by this disease. in all the hearings i have attended with commissioners, i have found that the main priority is to restore competitiveness in the euro area. the opposite is happening now to save the euro: instead of advocating subsidiarity in europe, centralism is being preached. instead of holding the responsibility for government and bank debts in one country, this responsibility is now socialized. in other words, if everyone is responsible, then in the end no one is responsible. instead of creating competition in europe, the opposite is needed. the commissioner andor in particular has distinguished himself in this area by proposing the socialisation of social security systems. an economic system based on centralism, harmonization and the socialization of debt will not be able to remain competitive.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, let me frank: i am one of the youngest members of this parliament, and in the election campaign i went around telling young people that i wanted to fight so that young people in europe would have a voice in this parliament and so that their needs would be put first in the european union. now, after the council two weeks ago in milan i could go back to my constituency – to gelsenkirchen, a city with a long history of unemployment – and tell the young people there that we are doing a lot here, that even the council presidency is calling one youth summit after another, and that we are really fighting to solve this problem. i am not going to say that to the young people that i am representing. i am not going to say that because this summit is not what needs to be done at the moment in the european union. this summit should have been a wake-up call; it should have been a very clear message to change the way that we are dealing with the crisis and with the problem of youth unemployment at the moment. instead, over and over again, we see people shaking hands and hear flowery speeches by ministers telling us how important this problem is, but not showing commitment to really solving this problem at a european level. young people do not need important powerful men and women at press conferences with photo opportunities. they need a change. they need a very clear end to business as usual. they need jyrki katainen to be a real investment commissioner. they need valdis dombrovskis to realise that the new liberal agenda of recent years has fuelled inequality all over europe. they need jean-claude juncker to stop the blind and antisocial austerity measures that have been implemented in the crisis countries in recent years. this is what we, as young people in europe, need in order to have a future.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mrs goulard, you complained that the report had been watered down to the point where everyone had wrapped everything up in a report which was originally clear in many respects and had a clear liberal handwriting, which also analysed problems properly. now there's almost nothing left of it. the solution to the problems of the eurozone is essentially sought in large-scale state intervention. if that is so, if nothing is left of this original report that is market-oriented and liberal, why does the liberal group still vote for this report?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if we vote tomorrow on the new commission, then of course this will also include the call for more binding commitments for the european semester. the current implementation record of the country-specific recommendations is far too weak. if europe is to embark on an investment programme now, it must be preceded by a stronger economic and budgetary consolidation. growth only thrives when the soil is already prepared. the report is very clear in pointing out the various obstacles to growth. the main obstacles to growth are thus too many failures to modernise many economies, too little flexibility in labour markets, too low levels of investment, particularly in private investment, and lack of access to sources of finance. these obstacles - this is clear - must be reduced. the first thing to do is, of course, to ask the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. public injections of money cannot replace or reduce the need for reform. the public budgets are now heavily over-indebted and the contributions of european taxpayers are largely exhausted. the focus must therefore be on a much larger private sector. european companies are looking for investment destinations, european banks and insurance companies need solid investment opportunities, especially with the current low interest rates. they should find more of these opportunities in europe, in a europe which is also becoming more competitive and thus improving the investment climate. the country-specific recommendations aimed at competitiveness and innovation are particularly important. we will listen carefully when the commission reports on compliance with these standards in future and regularly thereafter.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is important for us social democrats that our priorities, which we have incorporated into the opinion of the employment committee, should be reflected in it. we demand an end to the blind, unbalanced austerity policy in europe. europe must become more ambitious and more united. and europe finally needs to invest in its future. because instead of lifting 20 million people out of poverty, we now have an increase of 7 million people in poverty. the number of people who cannot make a living from their work is also growing dramatically. precarious working conditions have become the norm. this cannot be! we need a european stability mechanism. the green paper on automatic stabilisers is therefore also moving in the right direction. the european semester urgently needs a social dimension, with the same binding nature of eu social and employment policies as eu economic policy within the european semester. the commissioners have repeatedly assured us during the hearings that there will be a binding step. the social and employment indicators are a good first step. but we need more indicators to give a more accurate picture of the situation in the member states. my appeal is also: do not use crises as an excuse to be less ambitious, but rather to implement the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy even more ambitiously precisely because of the crises we have.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. many colleagues in this house give the impression that weak investment in the eurozone is the reason for weak growth in the eurozone. that is wrong, ladies and gentlemen! the weakness of investment is not the cause of this weak growth, it is a symptom of the euro crisis. because there's a reason for the lack of investment. the reason for the weakness in investment is that the competitiveness of many eurozone countries is not there. the lack of competitiveness is due to the problematic european currency: the euro. it is impossible to write a report on the competitive situation in the euro zone without at least mentioning the problem of the single currency. but that is precisely what this report by mr de backer does. the euro is not discussed at all. and that's a behavior that's shortsighted and stupid. because it's the behavior of a child who closes his eyes to a perceived danger because he believes that danger doesn't exist.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. of course, the main issue today is how we deal with the country-specific recommendations. so much has been said about this that i don't want to say anything more. i would like to make a few general remarks, however, and i am very sorry that mr lucke has left us. the euro is not the problem, but the catalyst that makes problems apparent, because the veil of fluctuating currencies has been removed, behind which many member states have been able to hide for a long time, trying to gain artificial competitiveness by devaluing. this is precisely the success of the euro, that this veil has been lifted from the member states and that the errors have become apparent. second, i hear a lot now that money can solve problems. we can still put so much money into training young people if there are no companies to employ these young people. in other words, in addition to competitiveness, it is also a question of strengthening entrepreneurship in the european union, of creating a strong smes, which build decentralized value chains, which are able to provide jobs for young people, but also for other people, which are able to provide jobs in the different regions of the european union. you can't solve this with money, you can solve this with boundary conditions. young people are not employed by giving them money, but by giving companies jobs. this is our common responsibility.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are talking today about the de backer report, the so-called european semester. we shall vote on this at noon tomorrow. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. these are two of the three official languages of this house. i'll put that on the record. i'll take the name of the report. it is called 'the european semester for economic policy coordination'. coordination is the key concept. coordinate, centralise, harmonise you want to abolish competition within the eu so that the eu becomes more competitive internationally. this is bullshit. i am not in favour of this, but i am in favour of paragraph 28 of the report. it finds that only 10% of all eu coordination and harmonisation orders are fully implemented in the member states. in our common interest, for a better future for europe, we should slowly acknowledge this reality and take new paths.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is clear, when we talk about the de backer report, that a warehouse catalogue is of no use at all. the report is a department store catalogue. we must be clear that the responsibility for budgetary and structural reforms lies with the member states and no one else. the eu must coordinate this is sensible and right. that is why my proposal goes far beyond what we have in the european semester. i think we need a monetary commissioner who has the same rights as the competition commissioner today. this would be the way to ensure that the states also adhere to their own signed commitments. the recipes i've heard here are all wrong. mr lucke says it is the euro, not investment, that is to blame. everyone knows that it is not the amount of money, it is the investment, the lack of trust in individual countries, the fact that they have lived beyond their means. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. as if we could solve the problems if the local politicians don't choose the right path. that is why the european semester is important, but we should not overload it!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i have listened to this debate for quite a while this morning. i have not been able to see clearly what the role of the european parliament should be in this european semester. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. i would therefore like to agree with mr langen that we must not overburden the european semester and that we should not comment too much but concentrate on our own tasks. one of these tasks - and it was briefly mentioned earlier - is the implementation of the country-specific recommendations, particularly in the area of the european internal market, which, according to all the studies we have, according to all we know, is still predicted to have a high growth potential. it is interesting to note that often the countries which suffer economically for other reasons do not actually follow these recommendations to better implement the conditions of the internal market. i would therefore be very pleased, ladies and gentlemen, if we could use the european semester in this house, above all, to talk more about the implementation of the texts relevant to the internal market and, in individual cases, to encourage individual countries here more clearly to make the implementation of these objectives more effective. this would ultimately benefit everyone - the countries in economic difficulties and everyone else, and we would have growth that does not require new debt.
in writing. - i voted against this motion because, for the first time, money from the globalisation fund for labour market measures is being misused. the national states would be asked to take any labour market policy measures that are necessary and desirable. the eu has no competence in this case and is exceeding its powers for the first time.
in writing. - the globalisation fund was set up to help in the event of short-term emergencies due to mismanagement, globalisation or the financial and moral crisis in the member states. the support includes training, start-up aid, coaching and outplacement of redundant workers. the globalisation adjustment fund co-finances these job creation measures at 50% or 65%, with the remainder being provided by the member state concerned. the european commission is thus becoming a gigantic labour market agency. however, the european court of auditors decided in a special audit report that this 'global fund' provides only limited eu added value and should be replaced by a more efficient scheme. it was explicitly stated that this globalisation fund was not the best way to provide the specific support that was urgently needed. and yet the eu continues to pursue policies that have been proven to be inefficient. i cannot agree with that.
in writing. - i voted against this motion because, for the first time, money from the globalisation fund for labour market measures is being misused. europe has excess capacity in the automobile industry, regardless of globalisation. in this case, it would be for the belgian government to take concrete labour market measures. the eu has no responsibility for this and is exceeding its powers, as has been repeatedly shown.
in writing. - the globalisation fund was set up to help in the event of short-term emergencies due to mismanagement, globalisation or the financial and moral crisis in the member states. the support includes training, start-up aid, coaching and outplacement of redundant workers. the globalisation adjustment fund co-finances these job creation measures at 50% or 65%, with the remainder being provided by the member state concerned. the european commission is thus becoming a gigantic labour market agency. however, the european court of auditors decided in a special audit report that this 'global fund' provides only limited eu added value and should be replaced by a more efficient scheme. it was explicitly stated that this globalisation fund was not the best way to provide the specific support that was urgently needed. and yet the eu continues to pursue policies that have been proven to be inefficient. i cannot agree with that.
in writing. - i voted against this motion because, for the first time, money from the globalisation fund for labour market measures is being misused. the national states would be asked to take any labour market policy measures that are necessary and desirable. the eu has no competence in this case and is exceeding its powers for the first time.
in writing. - the globalisation fund was set up to help in the event of short-term emergencies due to mismanagement, globalisation or the financial and moral crisis in the member states. the support includes training, start-up aid, coaching and outplacement of redundant workers. the globalisation adjustment fund co-finances these job creation measures at 50% or 65%, with the remainder being provided by the member state concerned. the european commission is thus becoming a gigantic labour market agency. however, the european court of auditors decided in a special audit report that this 'global fund' provides only limited eu added value and should be replaced by a more efficient scheme. it was explicitly stated that this globalisation fund was not the best way to provide the specific support that was urgently needed. and yet the eu continues to pursue policies that have been proven to be inefficient. i cannot agree with that.
in writing. - i voted against this motion because, for the first time, money from the globalisation fund for labour market measures is being misused. the national states would be asked to take any labour market policy measures that are necessary and desirable. the eu has no competence in this case and is exceeding its powers for the first time.
in writing. - the globalisation fund was set up to help in the event of short-term emergencies due to mismanagement, globalisation or the financial and moral crisis in the member states. the support includes training, start-up aid, coaching and outplacement of redundant workers. the globalisation adjustment fund co-finances these job creation measures at 50% or 65%, with the remainder being provided by the member state concerned. the european commission is thus becoming a gigantic labour market agency. however, the european court of auditors decided in a special audit report that this 'global fund' provides only limited eu added value and should be replaced by a more efficient scheme. it was explicitly stated that this globalisation fund was not the best way to provide the specific support that was urgently needed. and yet the eu continues to pursue policies that have been proven to be inefficient. i cannot agree with that.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the president of the commission on the commission's financial statements barroso ii (2014/2812 ((rsp)). i would point out to members that there is no catch-the-eye procedure in this debate and that i will not accept blue cards. i should like to begin by extending a warm welcome to the president of the commission and to the members of the commission who have been here. (applause from the centre) mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the commission! today is the last sitting of this parliament with you as the commission in office. i'm assuming this is the last one. we'll know better by noon tomorrow. but from the point of view of the present, i would assume that there is a slight tendency to say that this is the last meeting of this house. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to welcome you once again and to tell you that cooperation between a parliament and an executive is always marked by great tension. it has to be. i would like to thank you in advance, as a member of the college, for the cooperation which has certainly not always been easy, but which has been based on a common spirit. thank you, ladies and gentlemen. before i give the floor to the president of the european commission, mr lucke has presented himself - i assume he is speaking on the rules of procedure.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the final report of the second barroso commission is on the agenda. the commission will certainly be giving an account of its conduct over the last five years under this item on the agenda. i would draw your attention to article 17 (1) of the eu treaty, which essentially states that the commission is the guardian of the treaties. the commission is, however, under heavy criticism for tolerating and even encouraging the breach of article 125 of the treaty on european union the non-assistance clause and of article 21 of the treaty on european union the prohibition of monetary sovereign debt . in view of the importance of these matters, it is totally inappropriate to allow only the group chairmen to speak today. the european parliament must take the inviolability of the treaties seriously and therefore be able to hold a full debate on it. i therefore ask that the debate be organised in such a way that ordinary members can also express their views, because they too are the elected representatives of their people.
president of the commission. - mr president, first of all i would like to thank you for the invitation to address this parliament at what i think will be the last time i have this opportunity. in fact, now we are coming to the end of my second mandate as president of the commission, and i am very happy to be here with you and my colleagues, to present to you our bilan, and of course, since this is my second commission, i think i can also refer to the last 10 years. this time i did not bring a written speech. there will be a testimony online, a text i have prepared, and that is going to be distributed to all those of you who would like a copy, together with the main documents of the commission over these last 10 years. i thought that instead of reading a speech to you, i would share with you my feelings, my emotions, on what i think about the way the european union has responded to these very challenging times and what i think are the most important challenges for the future. first of all, i think you can agree that these have been exceptional and challenging times. ten years: ten years of crises and the response of the european union to those crises. not only the financial and sovereign debt crisis, but let us not forget that at the beginning of my first mandate we had the constitutional crisis, when two founding members of the european union rejected, in referenda, the constitutional treaty. so we had a constitutional crisis, we had a sovereign debt and financial crisis and we had several geopolitical crises – but in most acute terms now with the crisis between russia and ukraine. the constitutional crisis we had was in fact solved through the lisbon treaty. the reality is that at that time many people, some of whom we know, were saying that it would be impossible for the european union to find a new institutional setting, and there were moments of ambiguity and doubt; but basically we were able to keep most of the acquis of the european union, including most of the new elements of the constitutional treaty, with the lisbon treaty that was ratified by all member states, including those that today seem to have forgotten that they have ratified the lisbon treaty. more recently – because i want to leave to the end the economic issues, because they are still with us – we had the very serious challenge and threat to our stability, stability in europe, coming from the unacceptable behaviour of russia regarding ukraine. we took a principled position. we offered ukraine an association agreement and a free trade agreement and in fact i am happy that, despite all the difficulties, ukraine was there signing and ratifying the association agreement. i want to congratulate this parliament, because on the same day, at the same hour, that the parliament in ukraine was ratifying this agreement you were also ratifying the agreement, showing that you can offer hope to ukraine as part of the european family of nations. now as i am speaking to you, this crisis is not yet solved. we know that, but i think we can be proud that we have kept a position of principle, that we have condemned in the most unequivocal terms the actions of russia, and that in fact there was an association agreement ratified; not only in ukraine but also with georgia and moldova. i believe we have a duty to those countries that are looking to europe with the hope of sharing with us the same future and also because they want to share with us the same values. at this moment we are still mediating – today in brussels there is a meeting mediated by the commission on energy – with the russian government and the ukrainian government. we believe a politically-negotiated solution is possible, we are working for that, we believe it is in the interests of all the parties to have a political agreement, but a political agreement that respects the principles of international law, that respects the right of a country that is our neighbour to decide its own future and that respects the sovereignty and independence of that country. i think we should be proud of what we have been doing in this very challenging geopolitical crisis. we also had the financial and sovereign debt crisis. the reality is that the crisis was not born in europe, but the fact is that because we were not prepared, because the euro area did not yet have the instruments, we were very much affected by it, not only in financial terms but in economic terms, in social terms and i would say also in political terms. i think this crisis was probably the biggest since the beginning of the european integration process in the 1950s. let us now put things in perspective. let us remind ourselves what was the main opinion of most analysts in the economic and financial media, or even in many of our countries or outside of europe, as to what could happen. everybody was predicting a greek exit, greece exiting the euro, and of course that greece exiting the euro would have immediate cascading effects on other countries, a domino effect that was indeed already felt in countries like ireland or portugal. but let us not forget. spain was also under very heavy pressure and italy too. we were on the edge of the abyss. i remember well what happened in discussions in the margins of the g20 in cannes in 2011. i remember well when the analysts were almost unanimously predicting a greek exit and at least 50% of them were predicting the implosion of the euro. and what happened? not only was there no exit from the euro: now we are going to welcome the 19th member of the euro and lithuania will join us on 1 january 2015. not only did greece not leave the euro: the euro area has enlarged and the european union has been enlarging as well. that is a point which i think is very much underestimated in our analysis. in 2004, the year i had the pleasure and the honour of assuming the leadership of the commission, do you remember how many we were? we were 15. today we are 28 countries, so we have almost doubled the membership of the european union during all these crises. is there a better proof of our union’s resilience and capacity to adapt? i think the fact that we were able to remain united and open during the crisis confirms the extraordinary resilience and strength of the european union. this should not be underestimated. i know that for some this does not count for much. in a way they are idealising the past. they probably dream of a cosy europe. they think europe was better when half of europe was under totalitarian communism. i do not think that. i think europe today is better than when half of europe was under communism. (applause)i think that the fact that, even during all these crises, the european union was able to open, consolidate and unite on a continental scale almost the whole of europe around the values of peace, freedom and justice is a great thing. we should commemorate it and not be ashamed of it as some seem to be. i think this is also a reason to commemorate. many people predicted – like those of you who were following these issues at that time – that the commission would not be able to function and that it would be impossible. they were saying that at 25, 27 or 28 the european union would be blocked. the reality is that the european union was not blocked by the enlargement. i can share the reality with you now. sometimes it was more difficult to put together some of the core members of the union than all the 28 countries of europe. so i think we should be proud of that as well – collectively – because the european union was able to remain united and open during the crisis. when i say open i mean it in all senses, including having an open attitude towards the world. for instance, after the failure of the doha development round and the global trade talks, we promoted a proactive trade agenda and we are now leading in that sense. i believe that trade can be one of the best ways to support growth globally and in the european union. we – because it was the initiative of the european union – went to the united states, to the former president of the united states of america, inviting him – indeed, convincing him – to organise the first g20 meeting at head of state and government level because that was a means of taking a cooperative global approach and avoiding a return to ugly and nasty protectionism, which could be a temptation in times of crisis. we were able to keep europe not only united and in fact enlarging its membership, but also open to the rest of the world. but now we can ask, are we stronger or weaker? i know that most people today, on the critical side, will say that we are weaker. but are we really? in fact, when the crisis erupted, we had almost no instruments with which to respond to it. we were facing – as was said at that time – an unprecedented crisis. for instance, we had no mechanisms to support the countries facing the immediate threat of default. what did we do? we collectively – the commission and member states, and always with the strong support of the parliament, i have to say – created a new system of governance. today we have a much stronger governance system than before, including with unprecedented powers for the community institutions. we have done everything to keep the community method at the centre of our integration. for instance, the commission today has more powers, in terms of governance of the eurozone, than before the crisis. the european central bank today has the possibility to directly supervise the banks in europe, something that would have been considered impossible, almost unimaginable, before the crisis. i remember, when we spoke about banking union and when i gave an interview saying that we need a banking union, i received some phone calls from capitals asking ‘why are you speaking about banking union? this is not in the treaties’. i responded that it was not in the treaties, but that we needed it if we wanted to fulfil the objectives of the treaties, namely the objective of stability for growth – and today we have a banking union. so, if we look at things in perspective and we think where we were ten years ago compared to where we are now, we can say with full rigour and in complete observance of the truth that today the european union, at least in the euro area, is more integrated, has reinforced its competence and that we now have, through the community method, more ways to tackle crises, particularly in the eurozone. not only the system of governance in the banking union, but legislation on financial stability, financial regulation and financial supervision that we have presented – around 30 new pieces of legislation that were all approved by the parliament. once again i want to thank you, because in almost all those debates parliament and the commission were on the same side of the debate for more ambition – not less – for europe. so today i can say that we are stronger because we have a more integrated system of governance, we have legislation to tackle abuses in the financial markets and we have a much clearer system of supervision and regulation. i think we are now better prepared than we were before to face crisis, if crises like the ones we have seen come in the future. of course you can say, ‘but there are still many difficulties’. yes, and i am going to say a word about this in a moment, regarding the prospects for growth, but please do not forget where we were. we were very close to the default – a less polite word would be bankruptcy – of some of our member states, and look at where we are now. out of the countries that had to ask for adjustment programmes, portugal and ireland have exited the problem successfully – ireland is now one of the fastest growing countries in europe – and in fact all the others that were under the imminent threat of collapsing are now in a much more stable mood. spain has asked for a programme for its banks to also exit the programme successfully. so in fact only two countries out of all those – because we should not forget that the central and eastern european countries also had adjustment programmes even if they were not yet in the eu area – are still completing their adjustment programmes. on average, the deficits now in the eurozone are 2.5. this is much less than in the united states or japan. in terms of stability, we are much better now than before. the eurozone has a trade surplus. in the european union in general we now we have a surplus in goods, in services and, for the first time in many years, in agriculture. i am saying that because very often the opinion in some political sectors is that we are losing with globalisation. this is not the case. some countries in our union are in fact not winning that battle but, on average, you can say that europe is winning the global battle in terms of competition, namely in terms of trade and investment. of course, growth is still timid. i think that basically we cannot say that it is completely done, because threats remain. but we have won the battle of stability. today nobody in the world will honestly bet on the end of the euro. the euro has shown that it is a very strong, credible and indeed stable currency. the reality is that our growth is still timid and clearly below expectations. so what can we do for growth? this is the important question. for that i need to make a reminder, once again. i know very well that very often european union policy, and mainly commission policy, has been presented as completely focussed on austerity. i think this is a caricature. we have constantly asked at least for three important lines: fiscal consolidation, certainly, for the countries that were feeling the pressure of the markets – and it would be completely irresponsible if they could not frontload a programme of rigour to correct their poor finances – but we have always insisted with equal vigour, although probably some would not like to listen, on the need for structural reforms, for competitiveness, because the reality is that even before the crisis we were growing beneath our potential. that is the reality: there were serious problems of lack of competitiveness in some of our countries, so that is why we did more ambitious structural reforms, but we have always argued in favour of investment. i have always said that what we need for europe is more investment – public and private investment. private investment will come, the more we can show that we have competitive economies and that we can attract private investment. indeed, i am very happy to see that most of our countries, certainly at different paces, are pursuing ambitious structural reforms; strict reforms which would have been considered completely impossible before the crisis. the reality is, if we want to be honest in terms of analysis, that the countries that have suffered the most during the financial crisis were precisely those which had lost in terms of cost competitiveness before the crisis. for instance, the reforms that have been made by spain, by ireland, by portugal and by greece are impressive and confidence is coming back precisely because of that. apart from the fiscal consolidation and the structural reforms, we have always signalled the need for more investment: private investment, but public investment as well. you remember the debate about the mff? president schulz remembers, certainly. we were together in many meetings, asking the member states to do more in terms of investment and the most important instrument we have had at european level for investment is the multiannual financial framework, which is around one trillion euros. if there is not more ambitious investment, it was not because of the lack of ambition of this commission or lack of ambition of this parliament, it was because of the opposition of some capitals. this is the reality: we are for solid investment, targeting investment for growth. this is the reality. not only with the mff. remember the proposals that, for instance, i put forward here in the state of the union speeches with you, the increase of capital for the eib that was finally agreed? the project bonds that the member states accepted but, oh yes, as pilot project bonds; the facility that we have created for smes with loans from the eib and structural funds from our budget – unfortunately only two countries wanted to go along those lines. or, for instance, the programme for a youth guarantee that we proposed and the member states agreed on, but now with the youth employment initiative only two countries have accepted a dedicated programme for youth employment. so, my dear colleagues, let us be clear that we are for investment. i wish all the best to the new commission and to my friend and colleague, jean-claude juncker, that they may have the support of the member states for a more ambitious investment programme over the next years. i believe it is possible now. i believe there is much greater awareness today on this matter. but once again, this is part of a comprehensive strategy combining fiscal consolidation with structural reforms and investment and, of course, all the measures taken by us in terms of banking union and financial regulation for stability. this is the way, and i am saying that with vigour because i think it will be our mistake, after everything we have done, to give up, to show less determination, to abandon the road of structural reforms. i think basically we have done a part of the job: stability is broadly there, so is growth, even if it is lower than we would have liked, but now we need the determination to complete the reforms, so that we have sustainable growth, not growth fuelled by debt, excessive public debt or excessive private debt, because this debt is artificial. it is a fictional debt and sooner or later we are going to pay the price. but sustainable growth: that i believe is possible, if we continue the courageous path of reforms and stronger governance for the european union. i have not the time, because i respect this parliament very much and certainly i admire your patience, to now go into all the other policies we have been developing over the years. but just let me now highlight one or two, because i think they are very much at the point of decision now, and this is important. i am extremely proud that it was my commission in my first mandate in 2007 that put forward the most ambitious programme for climate protection in the world and that we are still leading in the world in terms of the climate agenda. in fact, we were able to join the climate agenda with the energy security agenda. i am saying this because this week we are going to have an important discussion in brussels at heads of state and government level and i hope that the european union will keep its leadership role. not, of course, to be isolated but to be with others, because we have a responsibility towards our planet. certainly, one of the great advances of these years is that the european union was able to make the most important bold steps in terms of fighting climate change. another area where i think we could be very proud is that, in spite of all the restrictions because of the financial situation, it was possible in the mff to get 30% more for horizon 2020 for research and technology. i think there is a great situation now, with great opportunities for us to do more in that area, and also on the cultural side with our programme europe creative. so the reality is that in some areas it was possible, in spite of the economic and financial crisis, to increase investment at european level. i am also very proud that in spite of the pressures of our budgets, we could always be there in terms of development aid and a policy for our neighbourhood. whenever there was a big tragedy in the world, from the tsunami in indonesia and now to the ebola crisis, from the syrian refugee crisis to darfur, we were there. we were among the first. i think we europeans should also be proud of that, because together with our member states, the european union is still the most important donor for development aid in the world. that is something that corresponds very much to our values and i am happy that in spite of all the crises we did not abandon our obligations in terms of development cooperation. i have already said a word about trade. i think it is very important to keep an ambitious trade agenda, an open europe, but for free and fair trade. the commission has concluded a record number of agreements, with south korea, singapore, central america – the first region to reach an agreement – peru, ecuador, recently with canada, recently with western africa, eastern africa and southern africa, and i could also mention some others that are not progressing like japan, united states and an investment agreement with china. so we are the most important trade bloc in the world. we are the biggest economy in the world. i am saying that because today i know it is very fashionable to be pessimistic and defeatist about europe – what i call the intellectual glimmer of pessimism – but i believe that we have a good record to show and i believe that together, collectively, we are much stronger and we can better defend our interests and protect our values. dear colleagues – i call you colleagues because i believe we have sometimes been through discussions but we have been colleagues in this great enterprise, this european project – i think politically we have some lessons to draw. one is that we have shown great resilience. i think we can say that the forces of integration are stronger than the forces of disintegration. i believe that, day and night, sometimes in very dramatic moments, sometimes when i have to make dramatic appeals to some capitals, to the richer countries, asking them to show more solidarity, or to the poorer countries asking them to show more responsibility. sometimes we have done it very discreetly, it is true. the european commission is probably more discreet than others. i did not want the commission to be part of the cacophony of different voices during the most acute moments of the crisis. it was extremely market-sensitive, that situation. but i can tell you, in my full conscience, that we have done everything we could with existing instruments to avoid the fragmentation of the euro and to avoid division in the european union. i very often had to call on my colleagues in the european council, heads of state and government, to show the ethics of european responsibility. but one of the lessons i draw from this is that, in the end, it was possible to come to decisions. it is true that it was sometimes extremely painful and difficult and took time, and we have also said – and i think it is something we can all agree on – that democracy is slower than the markets. so the commission would have preferred, and i am sure this parliament as well, for decisions to be bolder, more comprehensive and faster, but we are a union of democratic states, we are not a super-state, and we have to respect different sensitivities. one of the conclusions i draw from these 10 years of experience is the need to cooperate between institutions. i know sometimes it is more popular to put forward impossible ideas and criticise others, but i firmly believe that we need to engage with different institutions and that it is not a solution to put countries in opposition to the european union. on the contrary, we have to show our countries that they are stronger if they are part of the european union; that we are not diluting their national identity but on the contrary that we are asking them to share their sovereignty so that they can better project their interests globally. i am fully convinced of this. i am saying this to you now. i am leaving in some days, and my only interest is that these lessons be learned, so that we do not repeat the same mistakes in the future. at the same time i think we can say that it is not through confrontation, but through cooperation that we can attain the objectives. at the moment i am preparing to hand over this very challenging and interesting job to my good friend, jean-claude juncker. i want to say here, on behalf of myself and all my colleagues at the commission, that we wish the new commission all the best. they have, of course, a great challenge ahead of them, but they can also count on our support and i am sure on the support that this parliament is going to give to them. mr president, relations were not always perfect but i think you can agree that we were able to establish a cooperative relationship between parliament and the commission. i have been to this parliament over 100 times. no commission was ever so often in parliament as my two commissions. we have established this cooperation and i am so grateful, because this parliament sometimes has very – shall we say – strong demands, but it has always supported the community method. it always supported the community institutions and i believe this is very important for the future of europe. my dear colleagues of the european project, the way to solve the problems we have in europe is not through revolution and even less through counter revolution. it is by compromise, it is by reform: evolution and reform. we have to reform to adapt to new challenges, but not with new clashes between the institutions, not with clashes amongst our countries. i believe that if this idea of strong cooperation, of putting the european common good first, is pursued, then my colleague and friend, jean-claude juncker, and his new commission will have success – based, of course, on the support that i am sure you are going to give them. because – and this is my last time and also my last comment – the european union is a union of values. in these last days i have had to face many journalists and they have asked me, ‘what was your most emotional moment? which moment did you prefer?’ i have many. i also had very difficult ones, to be honest. but one of my most emotional moments was when, on behalf of the european union, together with martin schulz and with the president of the european council, herman van rompuy, we received the nobel peace prize for the european union. (applause)i think this was a powerful reminder, sent to us from the global community, that we count in the world and that what we do is very important; that the values that were at the origin of the creation of our union, namely the values of peace, are still of the essence today and that we have to fight for them. this is the moment i really said i want to share with all those in the different institutions, including this parliament, who have been working for a united, open and stronger europe. when i leave this office, with all my colleagues from the commission, i can tell you we have not achieved everything we could or everything we would have liked to have achieved, but i think we have worked with the right conscience, putting the global interests of the european union above specific interests, and i believe that now there are conditions to continue working for a united, open and stronger europe. thank you for your attention. auf wiedersehen! goodbye! au revoir! adeus, muito obrigado! (sustained applause)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president of the commission, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is a week of turning points for the european union: tomorrow a new commission and today the day of saying goodbye to the colleagues with whom we have had the pleasure of working as members of parliament in recent years. i am therefore pleased that my group is here and that we are celebrating this day in a dignified way. i would like to thank the president of the commission, and all the other commissioners, who have contributed their energy, conviction and enthusiasm to our common cause over the last five years. thank you very much. (applause from the centre) josé manuel barroso looked back on 10 years of work. if i may begin personally, i would point out that i was a newly elected member of this parliament ten years ago. i have come to know the then newly elected president of the commission as a strong, convinced european, who is fully committed, who is passionate about his cause, who is driven by his spirit, who has respect for us, the european parliament, the european chamber, and who is above all a human being, who speaks to everyone, who approaches everyone, whether he is an official or not. we have therefore had a good president of the commission who has done his job. the record is impressive. we have heard some figures from josé manuel barroso today. the start at the beginning, the chance, the question of whether the eastern enlargement, the reunification of europe will work in the everyday test - it worked. the constitutional debate that made europe more democratic. this year we have been able to implement the concept of the top candidates on the basis of the lisbon treaty, making europe a step more democratic. europe is a leader in climate action. we don't need to hide on a global scale. then, in the second period of barroso's presidency, the euro and financial crisis. before the crisis, the eurozone stood alone in the storm of markets. today we have the solidarity of the esm. before the crisis, debt-based growth was central to this continent, and today we have stronger, more sustainable budgets. before the crisis, there were unregulated financial markets, now we have a banking union and strong european banking supervision. i would like to make it clear that the crises we have experienced were not primarily crises of the european union but primarily crises of the member states, because mistakes were made at national level. the framework described by josé manuel barroso was the solution to the problem: no more debt, but instead more competitiveness and more investment. the rescue was the right one. that is something that must be emphasized again and again. ireland, spain, portugal have returned to markets, governance has been strengthened, and with slovenia in 2007, cyprus in 2008, malta in 2008, slovakia in 2009, estonia in 2011 and latvia in 2014, many new member states have adopted the euro as their currency. that shows, god knows, success. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one. i say to these critics: my friends, in the most existential crisis that we have experienced as europeans since the second world war, it is probably the way to go together, to be honest, to approach each other, to work out the team approach. perhaps less show-mastering and a little more substantial work, that's, i think, the right approach. there are many other areas that could be mentioned that are important. i only think of police cooperation because i was allowed to work in this field myself. we have made europe safer for the citizens of this continent in recent years - and many other things. the crowning event was, of course, the nobel peace prize in 2012, the speech in oslo in which our commission president described the history of our continent since the second world war, and i quote: peace is not the absence of war, but peace is a virtue and an attitude! barroso reminded us all of the mentality of europeans. for that, we can be thankful. the balance sheet is impressive, and if i wanted to conclude, i would sum up the main message that barroso and his term of office have left us with the reminder: we europeans can do it. we europeans can do that. if we have courage, if we are creative, if we stick together, then we can face the storms of fate that the future will also bring us with serenity and courage. i would like to thank you on behalf of the whole epp group. (applause from the centre)
mr. woolfe, please. you don't have to read it, it's understood. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) what you are asking for is a change in the agenda. amendments to the agenda must be tabled by 4 p.m. on monday. i would also like to point out that if i were to put a resolution to the vote i would have to set a deadline for amendments, which is obviously impossible. therefore, your application is inadmissible. i'm sorry about that. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
i thank you very much, mr president barroso. ladies and gentlemen, before we conclude the debate, i should like to say a few words to you, mr president, and to the members of the commission. mr barroso, first to you personally. i have been dealing with you for seven and a half years as chairman of a parliamentary group, and the emphasis was more on hitting. i was president of a european institution for two and a half years with you. i would like to conclude this debate on behalf of this institution - despite all the logical differences between parliament and the commission - by saying one thing to you, and regardless of the controversy that arises in terms of content: if you have invested ten years of your life in the form of european policy, as you have done - i have been able to observe this from close quarters - you can only be thanked for the enormous effort that you have put into your idea of europe. i would like to make this very clear, as president of the other institution, with great respect and great appreciation. (applause from the centre) the same applies to the members of your commission, who are here in large numbers - i believe almost in full - and i would like to thank them for their work. i would like to thank you for your work, despite the differences in opinion. a job that is not easy, a job that is often unjustly reviled. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the success is national, the failure is often attributed to the european institutions, including you as commission. it's not fair. it is therefore only right that at the end of your term of office i should like to thank you from the bottom of my heart for your commitment. i would like to do that on behalf of our institution. (applause from the centre) perhaps a word on the rules of procedure. the ladies and gentlemen who have now left the room, may know for the future: the agenda will be set on monday. the motion tabled here was a motion to amend the agenda. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a full answer to this question. but then the president has to sign off. i usually give my consent to such requests. the agenda cannot be changed in the middle of the agenda. i think that is understandable to anyone who has a modicum of parliamentary understanding. in that respect, the application was manifestly inadmissible and unfounded. the conference of presidents decides first of all on changes to the agenda and on the conduct of the meetings themselves. the hot procedure here had been decided by the conference of presidents - by the way, unanimously. in this respect, the proposal was surprising.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you misrepresented the applicants' intentions. the resolution that was tabled was a resolution on the existing item on the agenda. and that is a right which is provided for in the rules of procedure of this parliament. (parliament adopted the resolution) ) this resolution is now before the house with the signatures. mr. woolfe had it in his hand. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the matter. you cannot put this off by saying it is a change of agenda. the commission has not asked for a change of the agenda, but for a resolution to be tabled on this item. the right to do so is enshrined in the rules of parliament. you have broken these rules here, mr president!
mr. member, thank you very much. you are a new member of this house. that's why i've already told you that i'll also check your mistakes. (cheers and applause) the agenda will be set and it will be decided when the agenda is set whether there is a debate with a resolution or without a resolution. this debate was expressly without a resolution. the motion for a resolution could have been tabled either last monday or this morning. i think that is a minimum of understanding: if you handwrite a resolution during a debate and then submit it here, even i am not in a position to make it available to all members in such a short time, which is a minimum right of parliament that all members can look at a resolution in advance. i actually assumed they knew that. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. mr barroso, you have not earned a dignified farewell. they ran the authority, which as the "guardian of the treaties" was not supposed to break eu law. that goodwill is history. under your leadership, the european commission has tolerated the violation of the non-assistance clause and the ban on monetary sovereign debt by the ecb and the member states. this is a clear breach of eu law. now you are also involved in the budgetary dispute with france and italy. both national draft budgets for 2015 are in serious breach of the euro stability pact, either because the deficit is too large (france) or the debt level is one of the highest in europe (italy). you have shown that either there is no political will to deal with the euro crisis or the european commission has nothing to report. they said: 'eu countries must stay on the path of reform with strict control by the union.' it is good to know how seriously the eu commission takes this 'strict control'. the fact that the european commission has no right to meddle in the budgets of the national states is of course a completely different matter.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council (23 and 24 october 2014) (2013/2705 ((rsp)).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have listened to some of the commissioners-designate in brussels, including mr katainen. what i have missed in most of them is new ideas and strategies for dealing with the problems in the eu in the future. although the results of the european elections have spoken clearly, the demands of citizens to turn away from centralism, patronage and over-regulation are not being addressed. the real causes of the crisis - such as the delay in major reforms - are still being ignored. instead, they continue to pursue a policy of redistribution and postpone the problems to the future. mr draghi has been trying for years to save the euro with dubious measures, to buy time, and now you are trying to do the same with a banking union, with a future european unemployment insurance scheme. they are cleaning up their balance sheets by including in gdp the turnover from prostitution and drug trafficking. and now you want to pursue a common energy policy as if we had no more pressing problems to solve. what will be left of our continent when you're done with it?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. the market needs a stable framework. but what mr kamal from the ecr has done for the best here is almost to knock the barrel off the floor. it is the british government which is investing 43 billion euros over 35 years in a planned economy, where nuclear power stations are guaranteed a fixed feed-in tariff. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what's the matter? the market, industry and climate protection can be combined. i'm sure you will. we need investment security in europe so that companies can raise money to invest in low carbon industry, to invest in renewable energy. for that, we need a functioning emissions trading system. we need a framework that works. it can work. we have seen growth rates in the field of renewable energy in particular, and as far as jobs are concerned, we are only dreaming of them in other areas. we must continue to pursue this path consistently. but that can only be done with a strong emissions trading system. we have a price of 6.15 euros at the moment, 30 euros were estimated. the european commission, mr katainen, has calculated the carbon list at eur 30. eur 6,15 to eur 30 for the year. the european taxpayer will now pay the difference. we're not going to get the support of the people. we have to change that. we need to get to that, and then we can make something of it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we must be careful that the climate summit does not turn into an anti-climate summit. i say this because there is a danger that the objectives on the table will be diluted by the generous allocation of allowances which have also been used in the past not for climate protection but for other purposes. the objectives we know are neither ambitious nor sufficient. some of it is business as usual. this is a small common denominator compared with what is possible in europe and what we can do. the main weakness is the non-binding nature of the renewable energy and energy efficiency targets. we know that with these two objectives, we can tackle several problems at once. this famous investment programme must go into this very area. this will make us more independent and, of course, create many jobs. so i hope that the energy union really does bring us to a sustainable europe, and that we do not continue on the path of the past.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are discussing a very serious situation today. i must say that the council has brought us stones instead of bread. mr zanetti, i think i heard your message, and it reminded me of the statements made by the un security council. there's not one syllable too many, every sentence is circled exactly, and at the end you tell us that the solution to the extremely difficult situation is to be found in the mediation process. this is not going to work! your country is waiting for over two billion in outstanding payments, the federal republic of germany for one billion, and we are not in the top quarter of countries waiting for payments from the eu. the same member states that are expecting payments are the ones who say in the council: 'we want to starve the european union financially.' i read in the news today the great idea that the eu council of foreign ministers has agreed to introduce white helmets to launch a joint action to combat the ebola crisis. that's a great idea. but does anyone in this room think that's going to be budget-neutral? what am i trying to say? the fact that the member states are making more and more demands on the eu and that the same member states are unable or unwilling to finance these demands. this is not going to work!
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i should like to thank mrs eider very warmly for her very clear statement of the priorities set by the european parliament. i would like to begin by expressing my frustration, to say it loud and clear. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the european research area, the european research area, the european research area of europe, the future, the future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future future outside, we're building buildings where we don't even know where to pay the small bills. i must say quite frankly that a little consistency in fiscal and budgetary policy would be useful. before i build all kinds of towers, perhaps i should at least put into practice in a meaningful way what i have decided on programmes for further development in the european union. we are currently in a situation where we are sitting on 25 billion bills that we do not want to pay, that the council does not want to pay. we now have some outside controls to change the criteria afterwards so that the bills become a few less. even the most serious institutions are now very angry, and in some countries, which are sometimes waiting for a lot of money that they have spent properly, where the promoters of projects are entitled to receive the payment, there is now widespread distrust of this european union, simply because the council, while sharing the funds in its countries, does not want to pay the invoices that are now being sent to the commissioner. i think this system is completely unspeakable. i would like to say that the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i also think that when you go to the big print, you should also consider whether the money is being spent in a meaningful way and is it actually doing something sustainable. horizon 2020 is a very well thought-out programme with very long discussions in advance. i am deeply disappointed that the council is cutting in precisely these areas, precisely in the area of humanitarian aid and precisely in the area of development aid. that's something i have no understanding of at all. the budget of the european parliament is now being discussed. he's playing it pretty harmless. the budget of the european parliament is behaving in a completely normal way. we have been able to develop our cooperation with the economic and social committee and with the committee of the regions, but there are two problems with the other institutions. the first is the european court of justice, where we currently have to wait up to four years for judgments because there is no adequate equipment to give the judgments in a timely manner. this is increasingly becoming a budgetary problem or a budgetary danger because companies are suing the ecj for non-judgments, but at the same time they have to make security deposits because they can potentially be convicted accordingly. the second is the european external action service, which is expected to do a lot of things at the moment, especially in times of crisis in foreign policy, and yet the resources to do so are simply not enough. it is not that we want much, but at least we want consistency, and not every negotiation that the external representative will conduct in the future should be on youtube, but perhaps we could bring the it systems that are at the level of 1980 to the level of 2014, otherwise the whole thing would be meaningless.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, on 16 september last, in this very chamber, we had our first opportunity to discuss the draft budget for 2015, when i had the honour of presenting the council's position. because there is clearly a council position here. i take note of the various amendments to the council's position which the european parliament is discussing today and which it intends to vote on tomorrow. these amendments greatly increase the draft budget approved by the council. the overall gap between our respective positions is eur 1.3 billion in commitments and eur 6.1 billion in payments. the amendments proposed by parliament are also larger than the commission's proposal, with over 700 million in commitments and some 4 billion in payments, and exceed the ceilings of the multiannual financial framework. this implies the activation of the contingency margins on payments for 2015, with the obligation to recover in subsequent years. the council, while understanding that the european parliament wants to support the main spending policies of the union with an ambitious budget, considers that requests for increases in appropriations, both for commitments and for payments, are difficult to sustain even in relation to the actual capacity to implement expenditure, i.e. linked to the actual implementation of the underlying measures. the council therefore does not agree with the increase in appropriations which the european parliament intends to vote on, as it considers that these forecasts are unrealistic, particularly in relation to the actual implementation of the underlying measures, and not in line with the need to maintain adequate margins to cope with unforeseen expenditure during the year. in its position, the council also left a margin of approximately eur 2 billion in commitment and payment appropriations, which could be mobilised if the commission felt the need during the financial year, in the face of unforeseen circumstances and faster implementation of budgetary expenditure. the council considers that this position represents a balanced compromise between the shared needs to support growth and employment and the equally important priorities linked to the sustainability of public accounts to which all member states are subject and which involve generalised restraint of expenditure, particularly of an administrative nature. in this connection, i would also like to point out that the interinstitutional agreement provides, among other things, for a reduction in the staff of all the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of 5% until 2017. the council hopes that the european parliament will also take this into account, both in its agencies and in its administration. i am sure that the work of the conciliation committee will be, as always, characterised by a constructive spirit and mutual trust between the institutions, with a view to reaching a balanced and mutually satisfactory agreement on the 2015 budget in the interests of the european union and its citizens, without in any way underestimating the sensitivity of the present moment, the wide gap between the starting positions and therefore the need for an absolutely extraordinary commitment on the part of all the actors involved, starting with the council.
member of the commission. - mr president, the eu budget for 2015 is the second budget under the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020, which was agreed less than a year ago. we must put all our efforts into making this framework fully operational, fully respecting all the terms of this agreement. we must achieve the political goals set by the member states and by this parliament in the agreed legal acts. we must also honour our obligations and pay outstanding bills stemming from past commitments, thus avoiding an unnecessary burden on beneficiaries. all this has to be achieved within very tight financial circumstances and very tight budgetary ceilings. this is only possible, therefore, if we use all the flexibility that we have. we must maintain the eu as a credible business partner for small and medium-sized enterprises and regional authorities, as a provider of opportunities for students and researchers. sustainable economic growth, competitiveness, the creation of jobs and the fight against youth unemployment are other urgent priorities of the eu policy and should be reflected in the orientation of eu expenditure for 2015. we must do this under a clear and agreed framework and provide the necessary predictability and security for our investments and our partners. all that is reflected in the commission proposal for the budget 2015. last month i expressed before this house the commission’s concern about the position taken by the council in its reading of the 2015 budget. both the substantial reductions proposed – the commitments of 500 million and the payments of over eur 2 billion – on the very policies which are at the core of our common objectives are not in line with the political objectives we have set. i therefore welcome the proposal of the committee on budgets of the european parliament which proposes to restore most of the appropriations proposed by the commission in the draft budget. i also see that parliament is proposing a further increase in commitment appropriations to reinforce actions in support of competitiveness for growth and jobs, and for external actions including humanitarian aid. the increase proposed for a total amount of eur 750 million is within the existing margins under the mff commitment ceilings. however, even if further reinforcement contributes to increasing investments, we should try and find the right balance with the implementation prospects and the payments availability. the level of payment appropriations remains the paramount concern that we need to address at this budget conciliation. we must ensure that the legal obligations arising in 2015 are met, and put a stop to the snowball effect of shifting an ever-increasing amount of unpaid bills into future years. now is the critical moment to achieve this just by approving the amending budget for 2014. it has no additional costs for member states and recognises the valid needs we have in payments for 2015. we cannot afford to have the eu budget paralysed. we need to bring it under control and we have at this moment a unique opportunity to do so. in its draft budget, the commission has proposed using the full amount of payment appropriations under the mff ceiling for 2015. i thank parliament for proposing that, for the vast majority of the budget lines, the levels of payments proposed by the commission should be restored. i understand from parliament’s position on the draft amending budget and the budget for 2015 that it has taken very seriously the issue of the backlog and that it wishes to solve it as soon as possible. i fully agree that we must act responsibly and address at this stage the needs that we have in payments. in its amending letter no 1 to the draft budget of 2015, the commission proposed redeploying eur 448 million in payment appropriations for programmes that are expected to face payment shortages in 2015. the redeployment of payment appropriations is possible because of the additional assigned revenue accruing to the european agricultural guarantee fund. the reinforcement of payment appropriations proposed by the commissionʼs amending letter no 1 go in the same direction as a number of amendments proposed by parliament where the needs are most pressing, and in particular with the aim of reducing the backlog of unpaid bills and allowing the proper launching of the new programmes. this is necessary given the tight budgetary situation and is fully in line with the budgetary rules. please treat this bold move as a sign of the commission’s determination to stabilise the situation through redeployment too. we must avoid artificial under-budgeting in future as we are now all aware of the problems that such an approach brings. we can work within the overall budget context but we need to make full use of the elements of flexibility agreed in the multiannual financial framework. we are discussing the budget for 2015, but it remains clear and absolutely indispensable that the first step must be to stabilise the growing backlog of unpaid bills at the end of the year and the adoption of draft amending budget (dab) no 3 for 2014 which has been on the table since may. i fully share the parliament’s sense of urgency to make progress on this proposal. as you know, favourable developments on the revenue side in 2014 provide an opportunity to find agreement in this direction. exceptional additional revenue from fines stemming from the enforcement of competition policy means that the additional payment requests for 2014 will be, in total, at no cost for member states. we should seize such an opportunity to address the shortage of payment appropriations in 2014. i would conclude by assuring you that the commission will do its utmost to act as an honest broker to help increase the efficiency of the budget, ensuring the credibility of the eu and gaining control and stabilising the budget. this is in the interests of us all.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. in its opinion on the 2015 general budget, the trade committee identified a number of key points, in particular the appropriate allocation of funds to the directorate-general for trade, in order to implement the european trade agenda efficiently and consistently, but above all to better monitor and assess the impact of existing agreements beyond that. this is not only true for 2015, but also for the years to come. it will be all the more necessary to take this point into account. secondly, the commission should inform citizens and the public more intensively about its activities and the negotiations in progress. thirdly, we support the increase in the macrofinancial assistance facility and regret the cuts in the neighbourhood facility. this is not the political necessity we find today. we call on the commission to re-establish the budget line on fair trade. we expressly welcome the fact that our request to increase the budget for a comprehensive communication strategy has also been accepted by the committee on budgets. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the committee on budgetary control, which is consultative, has adopted an opinion. - mr president, i have to go. i agree with the complaints of my colleagues: many billions of unpaid funds in cohesion policy. we're just jeopardizing the planning security of the region. the council is not the only criticism that can be levelled at it when we talk about money. keyword: wrong editions. why do correctional procedures take five years and longer? why does the commission allow the same countries to make the same mistakes over and over again? why are we not consistently asking for european added value? why does the commission refuse to take on more responsibility? why does the court refuse to give special consideration to certain countries? the small circle of european institutions that keeps passing on the black peter will soon have it in their own hands. we all need to do more if the european budget is to be truly protected and used effectively.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. - mr president, i have to go. i would like to draw attention to a particular problem in agriculture in the context of the budgetary discussions: the european agricultural industry is in the midst of a sales crisis. we have seen a fall in prices, particularly for fruit and vegetables and dairy products. this is not a market disruption caused by farmers themselves, but a politically-engineered crisis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the russian embargo. we must help our farmers. for example, our milk producers in estonia, lithuania, latvia and finland need our immediate help at a milk price of 19 cents a litre. we need the annual repayments to the agricultural budget. it's farmers' money for farmers. the commission's decision to take away money from farmers, so to speak, is not appropriate, it is not expedient and it is simply an insolence which we cannot tolerate. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8))
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr president, i would like to ask you to take the opportunity to thank the commissioner for his reply. do you think that in 2015 it will really have an impact and that the funds in the first pillar will not be enough and that farmers will have to fear cuts?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. mr president, i really believe that we have a sales crisis here, not caused by the farmers themselves, but caused by politics. it would therefore be wrong not only to activate the emergency fund but also to tap into the funds which are, so to speak, flowing back to us. there is enough money in the fund to help agriculture on its own. we must discuss this and debate it with the commission. otherwise, the direct payments to all farmers will have to be cut next year. this is irresponsible and certainly not a confidence-building measure for farmers in the european union.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not we are talking about an eu budget which was originally designed by the commission at 142 billion euros. the council has cut this draft by two billion euros, and now the majority of the committee on budgets in our parliament is proposing an increase to 164.4 billion euros. this is at least 8% more than the original 2014 budget, against a background of highly and partly over-indebted member states. they have no money to spend on these increases. another important point is that the eu has already committed 222 billion euros in payments. of this, 23 billion euros are currently due, the bills are on the table. but the eu has no money to pay these bills. this is a scandal! the 2015 budget must be designed accordingly to solve the problem. the allowable commitments must therefore be well below the payment appropriations until the budgetary gap is closed. the european union is a treaty breaker if it does not. in fact, however, the draft budget now before us sets the level of commitment appropriations at the same level as that of payments. this means that this bill will not be paid in the future. in view of this, we - the group of the european right - reject this draft budget because it is not a budget for the future, which would solve the existing budgetary gap and the existing payment problems. in addition, we simply do not yet believe that the budget is really geared to the needs of the future, which means in particular that we must promote sustainable growth, that we must also promote jobs in a sustainable way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. there are two camps in this house. some people complain that the eu is too expensive, while others - including myself - think that the eu has a job to do. we are constantly faced with the difficult situation in the budgetary procedure where the member states assign tasks to the eu and the eu is naturally supposed to carry them out - in most cases the member states have thought of doing something at european level - and then the member states say: yes, but we do not pay for the task. now, as a budgetary controller - which i am - you can certainly think a lot about how to make payments in the european union more efficient. how can we get a little more control over our household? we must recognize that the management and control systems of the same member states are not in order and that european money is often used to run a scam. we are therefore in an intensive discussion with the council on how to get the european budget under control and how to manage it better. but, mr zanetti, we cannot do that by cutting back. and, mr kölmel, we are unlikely to achieve this by reducing commitments, because they are not taken out of thin air, but are derived from the tasks which the european union has to fulfil. the other institutions: we have a situation where the european parliament has to increase its budget. this is due to two special effects related to the end of the legislature. for the first time, a large number of our colleagues are retiring under the members' statute, and the european parliament has to pay the money for this. this is a special effect which the council must also take into account when it discusses the budgets of the other institutions.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to ask you again about the budget, specifically horizon 2020, the research programme. we are now going into horizon with €8.6 billion in payments from the old fp7. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to ask the commission, and the council, again in this context: what remains of the innovative europe?
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it's crazy what people are saying here, i'll tell you that. the expertise is manageable. mr president, how can we talk of capitulation when we have a farm budget of 59 billion? i would like to describe the 2015 budget as a budget for growth and jobs. i therefore regret that no one wants to use these funds from this budget, in which we are doing so much to combat youth unemployment and the youth guarantee. the member states' labour ministers have publicly put together a package of €6 billion for the so-called youth employment initiative, and now we see that there is a huge failure in implementing the decisions. the council, in its reading of the draft budget, did not even hesitate to reduce the payment appropriations for the european social fund, which is also the source of the funds for combating youth unemployment. it would be urgent to leave the funds in this area. unfortunately, the member states are not in a hurry to implement the agreed measures either. in fact, only a few hundred thousand euros were spent out of the 6 billion euros for the youth employment initiative. to date, only three member states - france, italy and lithuania - have had their operational programmes for youth employment approved by the commission. the french programme is said to benefit only 10 000 school leavers. the only thing we can say about this is: go ahead and deliver, not just promise!
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council and the commissioner once again. i would like to join mrs eider in thanking her and all the other co-rapporteurs for their cooperation. i would also like to make a rather clear point - i almost said: to tell the council that some statements are simply not correct. this parliament is not just advocating more money, but this parliament is advocating that we should perhaps start the seven-year financial framework we have just agreed on and start the programmes accordingly, that cuts in innovation and research in particular are not the wisest and that cuts in humanitarian aid at the present stage may not necessarily be the best of wisdom. i would also like to make it very clear that the european parliament has long since made an offer to the council on the agencies. we have offered that we would be prepared to discuss with the council, in our view, the main points of the changes in the agencies, to keep the 5% minus, but to reorganise the staff and to change the tasks so that the agencies can fulfil their tasks. those who do not want to talk about it at all, that is, unfortunately, the council, because there is obviously no agreement here somewhere. we cannot blame parliament for things for which it is not responsible. and if it is not to be linear cuts that have been made, then i do not understand the abatement rate at the european court of justice. because if you know that the court of justice uses its staff at 99.5%, then a linear reduction in the abatement rate of all the other institutions, especially the ecj and the european external action service, does not make much sense, given their situation. we are not here to ask for much in general, but we are simply asking for the observance of what we actually agreed with each other a few months ago. and we want to encourage growth and innovation. that's what our main goal is. maybe we could represent it together.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i ask mr corrao: if you want to accuse hungary, are you prepared to do the same with the federal republic of germany, where 13 000 investigations are carried out against patriotic citizens every year, where people are expelled from the hotel if they are in the wrong party, and where people are sentenced to twelve and a half years in prison, like horst mahler, for the sole reason of violating freedom of expression?
i have to say, madam president, i would also like to make one thing very clear again: we are not talking about hungary today, we are talking about the orbán government. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the 21st century. and yet: lack of independence of the judiciary and the media, insufficient rights for the parliamentary opposition, targeted incitement against minorities - all this we have heard for over four years. viktor orbán has been carrying out this systematic subversion of european values quite openly in the eyes of europe. how can it be that in the middle of europe a government first chains the public media and now tries to force the remaining private media out of the country through high taxation, that ngos that stand up for the rights of civil society and receive funds from norway, a friendly state, suddenly become anti-systemic? we must finally recognise that the current cuts in fundamental rights are not isolated cases and draw consequences from this. technical infringement procedures aimed solely at the implementation of individual directives cannot put an end to the systematic erosion of basic european values. we therefore need a new european procedure to protect the rule of law in order to be able to enforce democratic standards effectively in all member states. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to say to my colleague that apples cannot be compared with pears. every example we give here has counterexamples. i spoke to a representative of the orbán government and asked him about anti-semitic activities in hungary. his answer was: "yes, but i'm friends with a jew". that's not an answer. of course, if there are violations, you have to take action. but what is being thrown around here by the ngos that are being supported by norway has nothing to do with fraudulent or even criminal intentions.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i do not agree with all decisions and do not think that all decisions taken in hungary are correct and good. but i would have liked it if you had not been unilaterally and constantly criticizing fidesz and hungary in this house, but if you had used the same standard in bulgaria and romania, when protesters were beaten up, when media were bought and seized, when extraterritorial territories of the russian type were declared to be against eu law. do you not feel that you are a bit one-sided and that we should not be advocating human rights in general in the eu, even when the socialists are in government?
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. i would like to thank the president-in-office for his reply. what the commission has presented here is a fraud from the point of view of the people of ukraine. they allocate for the whole of 2015 the same quantities for the selected export goods for export to the eu as the quantities used up by ukraine in just half a year. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the sampled companies. my group calls for a more honest approach and for the regulation to be linked directly to the successful conclusion of the trilateral negotiations with russia. we should make it clear how this concrete economic policy measure, with its real impact on the daily lives of citizens both in ukraine and in the eu-28, can finally open and promote a path to peace and economic prospects. instead, the regulation puts unnecessary pressure on the negotiators. the european union should have sought the necessary dialogue with russia from the outset in order to find the best way for all to achieve a common peace and economic order - not in confrontation, but in consciously exploiting the potential of ukraine as a bridge between the eu and the eurasian union.
i have to say, madam president, mrs reicherts, i would like to ask myself what the eu, what my country germany, has gained from the suspension of customs duties at this hour. what goods from ukraine can in future enrich the european single market? is this action not more or less to add fuel to the fire and the wrong political signal after various war crimes have not been solved, for example the odessa murders, the terrible, tragic accidents of flight mh 17? how do such measures affect sanctions and russia's reaction? when will the escalation spiral end? if we are to take action here and expand the european single market, we should do so by taking ukraine and russia and trying to include both, and instead suspend the free trade agreement with the united states.
the next item is the debate on the presentation of the college of commissioners and its programme by the president-designate of the commission (2014/2811 ((rsp)).
president-elect of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in a speech i had the honour of delivering to you on 15 july, i presented the general guidelines to you, in accordance with the right of the president-designate of the commission under the treaty. it was not an exercise in style, it was a presentation of programmes, a presentation of projects, a presentation of contents, a presentation of ambitions. the commissioners who will form my college are bound by these general guidelines. i do not ask the commissioners to obey me blindly. as i said in brussels when i presented the college, 'at my age, you do not start a career as a dictator.' i want the commissioners to feel free. the president-elect of the commission has been asked to do everything possible to ensure that a political college can be formed, so respect the fact that commissioners have political opinions and that their reflections feed into the debates within the commission. i was appointed president of the commission on the basis of a programme which links me to the european parliament. i have a contract with you, mr president, and with the european parliament, and i intend to respect the terms of the contract i presented to you last summer. the commission, which will take office on 1 november, if you agree, will succeed josé manuel barroso, who was president of the institution for ten years. i would like to pay tribute to josé manuel barroso, who was president during a difficult period. the barroso commission had to deal with the economic and financial crisis and its consequences. the barroso commission has been able to integrate thirteen new member states into the various community schemes. i think that josé manuel barroso has done a good job and that he has been criticised very often in ways that sometimes seemed painful to me. mr barroso has not been ineffective and i would like to thank him for the extraordinary work he has done. (applause) i would like to thank in july i promised you that i would set up a political affairs committee. i told you that the next commission would be political and that it would be very political. it was like an ecumenical wish that many of you expressed. the commission is not a gathering of anonymous high officials. the managing directors, all of whom are competent, must obey the commissioners and not the other way around. i have therefore done everything possible to see 'heavyweights' appointed to the commission by governments and by the president-designate. the men and women who will make up my college have held important positions in their respective countries, positions of, in fact, high responsibility. the commission will be composed of four former prime ministers, nineteen former ministers, three former foreign ministers, several former finance ministers, seven outgoing commissioners and eight commissioners who have been members of the european parliament. their political origin reflects the fact that the commission must be very political. i promised you a more political commission. its composition is sufficient to indicate that it will be more political than its predecessors. i promised you a more efficient commission in july. again, this is an ecumenical wish shared by most of those who make up this assembly. i have chosen to reorganise the architecture of the commission. i have chosen to appoint - as has not been done before - a first vice-president in the person of frans timmermans, whom i would like to congratulate in particular this morning. (applause) i would like to thank i have chosen this because i have known him for centuries and also to bring the commission the political balance that the appointment of the various commissioners has only insufficiently imposed. i have read in most european newspapers that frans timmermans will be my right hand man. i hope that every now and then, he'll be my left hand, too, but it's gonna be tough. i've appointed several vice presidents. i was going to appoint the vice-president, as the treaty provides, the high representative. i had originally intended to appoint the commissioner for budgetary affairs as vice-president because the preparation and execution of the budget is, in fact, horizontal in nature, and i had the idea of asking former prime ministers to perform coordinating functions within the college. prime ministers are used to the difficult task of coordinating the work of others. sometimes they succeed, sometimes they fail, but they know what it's all about when it comes to coordination. i have therefore asked the former prime ministers to be vice-presidents of the commission. i have decided to entrust frans timmermans with the application of the principle of subsidiarity better regulation, as we say in french. this is a big deal. we said and we promised the voters and the citizens of europe that we would make europe a machine, an authority, an ambition, a factory which would deal with the big problems and leave the small ones, which are better dealt with in the respective member states and at the level of local authorities, to chance. mr timmermans will ensure that the principle of better regulation is respected. it's a lot harder than the best regulation. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. i have decided that frans timmermans will also be responsible for sustainable development. it's an important ambition. it's a long-term project, a daily concern. i could not follow the proposals of your committee on the environment, public health and food safety which wanted the responsibility for sustainable development to be given to the vice-president responsible for growth and investment. i have chosen to ask frans timmermans to take care of this particularly important aspect of our collective action because the charter of fundamental rights, the application of which will constitute a large part of mr timmermans' work, already provides for respect for sustainable development, as does article 3 of the treaty which prescribes it as a standard of action. the vice-presidents i have chosen will be responsible for the commission's priorities, which i set out to you in july of this year. there will be a vice-president who will be responsible for the energy union in all its dimensions, including renewable and new energy. one vice-president will be responsible for growth and investment, a second for the european digital market and a third for the euro and social dialogue. it is not the little chiefs who will instruct the other commissioners. the commissioners are equal before the law. they are project vice-presidents, coordinators, facilitators, aggregators, organisers of ideas and initiatives. i have noted, during the parliamentary hearings and in the virtuous part of the published public opinion, many doubts and questions about these 'unknown animals' who are the vice-presidents coordinating the work of the commission. i was surprised to read that. everyone told me that the commission should work more efficiently. almost everyone complained that the college was composed of 28 commissioners, one commissioner from each country, and that there were too many of them. i had the choice between a revision of the architectural organization and a division of powers so that i could distribute them among 28 commissioners. so the question is simple: either you want 28 commissioners working in their own corners, playing around in the spirit of the bell, dealing with small competences, which would come into being after the competences which are those of the commission have been fragmented and broken up, or you want commissioners who have nothing to do or commissioners who are under the friendly aegis of vice-presidents who would coordinate their work? if you want a commission like the previous one, you should have told me. but if you want a more efficient commission, one which takes care of europe's great ambitions, which organises them, which structures them, then there is no choice but to entrust a number of vice-presidents with the implementation of the commission's major political priorities. i will give you two examples: there is a vice-president responsible for the euro and social dialogue, there is a commissioner for economic, financial and fiscal affairs and another for social affairs, and there is the european semester. it is obvious that someone - indeed the responsible vice-president - must coordinate the initiatives of the commissioner for social affairs and those of the commissioner for economic, financial and fiscal affairs. the european semester is not an economic and financial semester. the country-by-country recommendations which the commission will issue must necessarily take into account the social aspects of the economic and monetary construction of europe. (applause) i would like to thank there's a whole debate going on around triple a. everybody likes triple a. in fact, there are still two countries in the euro area that have been awarded triple a status: germany and luxembourg. germany has a good chance of keeping it, and luxembourg, we shall see... but i would like the european union to recover and acquire another triple a. i would like europe to have the triple a in social matters, which is as important as the triple a in economic and financial matters. (applause) i would like to thank we have appointed a vice president for growth and investment. it will coordinate the work of all the commissioners who will contribute to growth and investment policy: the commissioner for transport, the commissioner for the digital economy, again the commissioner for economic, financial and fiscal affairs, the commissioner for social affairs and employment, the commissioner for the single capital market, the commissioner for the internal market and so on. if we are to present an ambitious investment package to the europeans - and therefore to parliament first - someone will have to organise it. since there are several areas of responsibility that need to be merged and there are several commissioners who need to bring their different policies together, it is obvious that a vice-president needs to coordinate the work. i want to end the silo. i want to put an end to this form of governance where every commissioner works in his own corner. i want to put an end to the bell-ringing mentality which is very often apparent in the work of the commission. i would like to draw your attention to one aspect which has been virtually ignored by all the commentators. the big loser of this new architecture is me - i like your protests - for the simple reason that i have delegated a good part of my presidential prerogatives to the vice presidents. we cannot have vice-presidents of projects if the president continues to be the head of the commission as he has been up to now. but i would like to say that, of course, before a point is put on the commission's agenda, i want first to have the approval of the vice-president responsible for coordination. but he - and i say this without threatening - who delegates his prerogatives can also take them back, if it is really necessary. the vice-presidents will be responsible for the rest of the work which, until now, was the prerogative of the president of the commission. i promised you in july that i would ensure that the new commission would have a sufficient number of women. we have nine women commissioners, as many as in the barroso commission. i had to fight to get national governments to offer me nine wives. at the end of july, two weeks after we spoke to you, we had three women appointed by governments. i had to convince a lot of governments to send a female commissioner and i had to turn down a lot of male candidates. i will not tell you which ones because i do not want to embarrass the prime ministers whom i have managed to convince to propose a woman commissioner. but, to be honest, nine out of 28 commissioners are women, which is a ridiculous number. (applause) so since we are all members, in principle, of national political parties, and since, in principle, we all know our prime ministers, start tomorrow morning to raise awareness of this issue with national governments. i am a little embarrassed to say this, since luxembourg has not nominated a woman. he'll probably do it next time. since mrs reding was commissioner for 15 years, we have not accumulated the ... no, in the short term i won't be able to change my sex: in the long term maybe, but not in the very short term. i told you, my dear friends, at the debate we had in july, that i would listen carefully to the hearings. how can you not listen to the auditions? i have followed with varying interest, i must say, the parliamentary hearings, twenty-nine in all. i told you in july that the commission was not the secretary-general of the european council and the council of ministers and that i would not be the european parliament's valet. but i listened to what you said and i thought it appropriate to draw a number of conclusions from the hearings that took place before our eyes. the commissioner proposed by slovenia had to be replaced by another slovenian commissioner and i decided to give her the important transport portfolio. i did not want to challenge the basic architecture of the commission, so i chose to appoint mr šefčovič as vice-president for energy union, since he had been vice-president in previous years and therefore has an idea of what the coordination work i am asking him to do may entail. i have already told you that i have proposed to my friend frans timmermans that his portfolio be enriched by all policies related to sustainable development. i have listened very carefully to all those who have complained that i have removed the responsibility for medicines and pharmaceuticals from the commissioner for health to the commissioner for the internal market. i had no idea - and those who know me well know this - that medicines, health care products, the medical profession itself, would be a commodity like any other. health is not a commodity. and so, sensitive to the call that has been made to me to put some order into this distribution of powers - a wish that was expressed during the parliamentary hearings and widely echoed by a good part of the medical professions - i have decided to reallocate these powers to the commissioner responsible for health. (applause) i would like to thank i think space policy is a promising area and it seemed more appropriate to put space policy in the hands of the commissioner responsible for the internal market, as was the case in previous commission configurations. as regards citizenship, i have followed your debates, i have been sensitive to a number of remarks which expressed unease and i have therefore chosen to assign the citizenship dossier to the commissioner responsible for migration and home affairs - a responsibility which will of course be shared with the commissioner for justice. i also added sports to mr. navracsics' file. that's what i've concluded from your hearings. (commentary by michele rivasi, off the record.) i have followed your discussions very closely and you have seen how we have arranged the situation with regard to the commissioner you have just mentioned, in a way that is not audible to others. mr president, finally, i have taken note of the intense debate around the inclusion of investor-state dispute settlement in the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) negotiations. let me once again state my position clearly the position which i set out on 15 july 2014 before this house and which you will find in my political guidelines. i will not accept the jurisdiction of the eu member states being limited by special regimes for investor-state disputes. the rule of law and the principle of equality before the law must apply in this context, as elsewhere. the negotiating mandate sets out a number of conditions that would have to be respected in such a regime, as well as an assessment of its relationship with domestic courts. there is thus no obligation in this regard: the mandate leaves it open and serves as a guide. i had thought that my commitment on this point was very clear, but i am happy to clarify it further and to reiterate it here today, as a number of you have asked me to do. in the agreement which the commission will eventually submit to this house for approval, there will be nothing which limits the parties' access to national courts or which will allow secret courts to have the final say in disputes between investors and states. i have asked frans timmermans, in his role as first vice-president responsible for the rule of law and the charter of fundamental rights, to advise me on that matter. there will be no investor-state dispute clause in the ttip agreement if frans does not agree to it too. i am confident that, with your support, we can negotiate an ambitious trade agreement with the us along these lines, fully respecting european interests and the rule of law. i am strongly committed to the ambition of concluding the trade agreement with the us, but i have promised this parliament, and i promised during the campaign, that i will be attentive to european rules. it may be that, in relation to european protection rules, we will have to negotiate further with our american friends to bring this agreement to fruition. however, i wanted to be as clear as possible on this specific issue. mr president, i now speak in the language of the world's great masters, although the world's great masters have at times a recognizable weakness. (heiterkeit) herr präsident thinks that would be a temporary weakness. the german people must also get used to the fact that they can be permanently weaker. mr president, i would like to make some additional comments on points which played a major role in the debate last week. i had promised them in july that i would implement a 300 billion euro investment package. investments are of vital importance for the european economy and for the people living and working in europe. europe knows an unwahrscheinliche investitionslücke an investitionsrückgang von über 20 % im schnitt im direktvergleich mit dem vorkrisejahre 2007: 36 % investitionsrückgang in portugal, 64% investitionsrückgang in griechenland. this is a very unlikely investment failure, as the investment in the eu is not as high as it was in the past. volkswirtschaften, in which nicht investiert wird, können nicht wachsen, und volkswirtschaften, die nicht wachsen, können keine beschäftigung sicherstellen. volkswirtschaften, in which nicht investiert wird, können nicht wachsen, und volkswirtschaften, die nicht wachsen, können keine beschäftigung sicherstellen. volkswirtschaften, in which nicht investiert wird, können nicht wachsen, und volkswirtschaften, die nicht wachsen, können keine beschäftigung sicherstellen. volkswirtschaften, in which nicht investiert wird, können nicht wachsen, und volkswirtschaften, die nicht wachsen, können keine beschäftigung sicherstellen. volkswirtschaften, in which nicht investiert wird, können nicht wachsen, und volkswirtschaften, die nicht wachsen, können keine beschäftigung sicherstellen. this investment programme is very important to me. i would like to say yesterday in all clarity that the attempts to abstain from this project which have been started in the meantime have not been successful. i will die! (beifall) these investment programmes cannot be financed by further debt collection. (beifall) we must ensure that by intelligent use of public funds private initiative is encouraged and addressed. the economy must know that it also has a task in society to fulfil. not only the states are responsible for combating unemployment: the economy has an original responsibility. i call on the european economic leaders to do their part to improve the situation on the european labour markets and to provide the investment we urgently need. (beifall) i will not, as originally planned, launch this investment programme within the first three months of the commission's term of office. the vice-president responsible, jyrki katainen, and i will be there for christmas. eile ist geboten, und we must meet this demand as quickly as possible. this investment programme will bring about a recovery programme such as that which was attempted in the 1970s in some member states. the economic recovery programme is a strohfeuer programme. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council by the end of the year. not simply to take money in hand, but to create an impression, to do something, but to take money in hand, together with the private sector, in the medium term, to strengthen the growth forces and the growth potential in the european union. i say this also because the main task before us is not only to combat unemployment but above all to combat the scandalously high youth unemployment in many of our member states. in the context of these overall efforts, the european digital market must also be included in the european digital agenda. the oettinger college will take care of this important subject. the employment created by the digital agenda, and the investments required in the field, will result in a growth of 250 billion euro in the next few years. we will do that. in recent months much has been said and discussed about the stability pact, but little thought has been given to it. i also want to speak klartext. i think that the european council, and the commission as a whole, was in the framework of its powers on 27 june in sachen stabilitätspakt hat gesagt. the rules are not changed. all the governments, 28 in number, were of the opinion that the rulebook should not be interpreted. the war is over. have i misunderstood something? the rule is not being respected! the rules of the contract are based on the relevant contractual and other legally binding texts. it will also be relatively undramatic. we are being asked to do so by the european council. we are going to do that, and i was in my statement yesterday, july 15. budgetary discipline must be! flexibility is essential! the structural reforms must come! without structural reforms, which lead to a lasting revival of the european economy and the european labour market, there can be no flexibility to make things clear. (beifall) but i would also like to say to those who think that an over-general austerity policy automatically leads to a revival of growth and labour market policy, that they should give up this idea. it is not so that deficits and debts automatically lead to growth. if it were so that high deficits and high debts would lead to growth, then europe would have to grow as never before in its history, because we have not yet had so many debts to answer for, as is the case today. but to think that budget consolidation is the only way to promote growth without the necessary flexibility to be accompanied by the necessary structural reforms and investment targets is also wrong. we need both: budget discipline, growth-oriented politics, investment, so that we can move with the necessary speed in the future. finally, i have observed, ladies and gentlemen, that many questions have been raised about what i said in july on the question of enlargement. i have appointed a commissioner for neighbourhood policy and accession negotiations. a number of your committees have proposed renaming this portfolio 'commissioner for neighbourhood and enlargement'. i have chosen, after a meticulous debate, first with myself and then with a few other friends of mine, to name this portfolio 'commissioner for enlargement negotiations'. i don't want to deceive people or nations. do not give those candidate countries the impression that they could become members of the european union in the next five years. there will be no new member during the term of office of this commission. that's not possible. so let's not tell stories. let us not make those who are waiting for accession believe that it will be possible in the next five years. of course, the accession negotiations will continue with the same momentum, the same vigour and the same commitment as hitherto. i would like to welcome the applicant countries to the european union by telling them that the negotiations will indeed be accelerated if necessary, but it is not realistic to think that they could be concluded by 2019. finally, there is another problem which bothers me, bothers you and is scandalous: the unpaid bills of the european union. (applause) this is an old problem. i was, at the same time as mr verhofstadt - who does not like to be confronted with his youthful mistakes - minister for the budget. we had already discovered unpaid bills at that time in the budget council. the european union, to be credible, cannot be a bad payer. she has to honor her commitments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, these are the few clarifications i wanted to make to our discussions and to your many questions. we are moving in an international context which shows us day by day that we live in an increasingly dangerous world. the movement known as the 'islamic state' is the enemy of european values. we cannot accept such actions. (applause) i would like to thank the ebola crisis requires a strong, rapid, organised and focused response from the european union. i don't feel like we've been up to the task of fighting this epidemic. (applause) i would like to thank and i note with great sadness that while the phenomenon was affecting the african continent alone, we did nothing. but the day the epidemic arrived in europe, we were on the move. you should have done it sooner. (applause) i would like to thank the problems of illegal migration remain. i asked the former greek foreign minister, who was also the former greek minister of defence, to take charge of this matter, just as i asked the cypriot commissioner, if i may say so, in charge of humanitarian aid, to go to africa as soon as possible to mark the presence of the european commission there. the problems of illegal and legal migration will be treated as real priorities by the commission, which i hope will take office on 1 november. i would like to repeat what i said in july: that we rediscover the virtues of the community method. i would like this commission and this parliament to be the singers, the craftsmen and the architects of a rediscovery of the community method. the intergovernmental method, in the urgency and on the spot, has its virtues, but i believe in the virtuous triangle between parliament, the council and the commission. i'd like us to rediscover this method. i told you that we feel bound by a five-year contract with your parliament. the first reference body of the new commission will be the parliament. the parliament which has made sure that the normal, natural consequences of the vote on 27 may, the expression of universal suffrage, are drawn. i admit that there are those among us who were not in favour of political parties presenting lists of candidates, but this has been done and i say to you today - and i say this especially to those who did not approve of this process - that you will not go back on this subject. (applause) i would like to thank in 2019, the european election campaign will be a truly pan-european campaign and everyone will know before they go to the polls... (applause) i would like to thank democracy is also european. it is continental, and by becoming more democratic, europe does not diminish the importance of states and nations, which, i repeat, are not temporary inventions of history but are made to last. if we want europe, we must respect the nations and the member states. europe is not built against nations with their own traditions, virtues, wealth and raison d'être. europe is not being built against the member states but with the goodwill we find everywhere in europe at the level of civil society, our companies, our member states and our national parliaments. i give you my conviction. this commission will be the commission of the last chance. either we succeed in bringing european citizens closer to europe or we fail. either we succeed in making europe a political entity that deals with the big things and neglects the small things, or we fail. either we succeed, together with the member states, with the governments, parliaments and social partners, in reducing the level of unemployment drastically, or we fail. either we give young europeans a new perspective or we have failed. i would like us to seize this opportunity to move europe. europe deserves it and i am counting on you, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, to support the commission in the many tasks which lie ahead of us, of you and of the europeans. (applause from the centre and the right)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by thanking you for the thoughtful, calm speech we have heard, for the experience that has been gained from it and for the political approach that has been put into it. i would like to begin by simply saying, as regards the gender of the president of the commission: stay as you are - that is how we like you, and that is good! i am not going to go into detail. i would remind you today that we are putting an end to the constitution process at european level. the people, the voters, were at the heart of this process. they have elected a few colleagues, the voters in europe, who reject europe, and that must be respected. but they have elected in overwhelming numbers members who want to shape europe, who want to move europe forward. that is what we are doing by bringing the commission into office. this is reflected in the concept that we had a top candidate, that jean-claude juncker was elected, that we engaged people more than we did in the past. that is why europe has made great strides towards democracy in recent years. the question of how to win over the citizens, the voters, today can be best described by the last three weeks. we as members of parliament have exercised our duty and our right to examine the colleagues proposed to us by the member states. the hearings were a watershed moment for european democracy, for the european parliament. we in the epp group have taken every hearing seriously, but have also given every candidate, irrespective of his nationality and political orientation, a fair chance to present himself properly and to convince us. the expectation here is not that we expect a perfect subject matter expert, but we expect a political person who is passionate about europe, who is passionate about its content and who wants to work with commitment for the next five years. no national level has this principle of ministers being accountable to a parliament in advance. that is why we should be confident in our role as european democrats. we have that right, we are proud of that right, and we have also been exemplary and exemplary in the last three weeks. we can be proud of that. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already taken the initiative in this area. that's the way it is. but i would remind you, also as a member of parliament, that the discussions in the european council on mrs mogherini, on the question of the high commissioners, took us over a month to reach a conclusion at the european council. i also believe that we as parliamentarians are on schedule and have therefore done a good job. now back to europe: jean-claude juncker introduced a team to us and today he gave answers to the commission's hearings in the various committees of this house. thank you for that. secondly, he has put forward a concept which, with the vice-presidents, provides for coordination and concentration. we as the epp support this. the third thing he thought about was how to get the member states on board. and if we have heard a lot from the dutch government in recent years, for example from frans timmermans, about what europe should not do, then i think it's great to have a dutchman now saying, "okay, i'll do that too", and explaining that at home. i think this approach is good, to bring the mood at national level into the commission. fourthly, he made it clear that we would have a citizens' committee. the citizens of europe are at the table. the student from spain who has to leave his home country because he cannot find a job, the entrepreneur who has problems in the digital sector with 28 data protection regulations. it takes the citizens on board - that's important - and it seeks partnership with the european parliament. i thank you very much for that. i say congratulations to you. we as the epp support the proposal put forward by jean-claude juncker. i do not know how you are, ladies and gentlemen. but i'd like to start working now. after this constituent process, i'm burning for the content. i want to work as a member of parliament now. i'm glad we can get to work now. the issues are not easy. it is about a stable europe where we have to play by the rules, it is about growth, it is about how we can tackle the challenges of migration on our continent. it is about respect - thank you again, dear jean-claude juncker - respect at national level. this is also an important point for the epp group. and it is also about the question of the next five years, that europe, after years of looking inward at our own problems, looks outward again and takes up the tasks of our time. we have seen the departure of josé manuel barroso yesterday. he described the tasks we had to face in the last few years. the message that has stuck with me from his final report is that despite all the challenges, if we europeans stick together, if we are creative, if we work together, if we are committed to solving the problems, we will succeed. we will solve the problems of the future if we work together constructively on these issues. we can now get to work with the motivation that josé manuel barroso has left us. yes to this strong commission! the epp wants to succeed. get to work! (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: you all know how much i appreciate mr juncker. i think i am not alone in this, but i am in the good, great majority in this house. nevertheless, my group will say no to the juncker commission. we have made this decision after much deliberation and intensive deliberation. i would like to take mr verhofstadt's point very seriously. in my view, the very decision to give mr navracsics this particular portfolio is in itself a reason, after the experience of the last legislature - i am reminded of viviane reding and her problems - to say no to this commission. but we have more reasons, of course. i don't want to go into detail. i would also like to base this on a sort of analysis of the things that are important to the greens in this situation of a new beginning. mr juncker, it is comforting that you are breaking with the idea that economic recovery can be generated by the strictest budgetary discipline in crisis countries. we like the investment programme you're announcing. we just don't know where the money is going to come from, which is going to be needed on an even larger scale than you've outlined so far. the second thing that really bothers us is that this idea of an investment programme has not yet been linked to an idea of the european union, of how we want to win a future for the citizens of the european union. i say this with all seriousness, also in relation to the forthcoming summit. the fact that we are now preparing a summit to scrap the european union's climate policy after ten years of passionate climate debate is a contradiction to the fact that this european commission, old or new, has actually recognised the challenges of the future. (applause from the centre) it is not possible that mr oettinger should have to conduct these pitiful negotiations for russian gas supplies at the same time as the heads of state and government are preparing to set targets for renewable energy and even for energy efficiency at european level. it is not about gaining sustainability, but about abandoning the objectives that could actually be better developments. i think that this is what was missing in your speech as a balance sheet, and also the design, the distribution of the climate and energy portfolios, the complete absence of the idea of sustainable development, that is really a serious reason for us to say no to this commission. (applause from the centre) the suspicion that deregulation alone is the way to generate growth is also fuelled by the ttip negotiations: european achievements are being abandoned. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that this has not been sufficiently recognized by the old commission and the new commission. the refugee policy has been a major issue. but one of the great failures of recent years has been the promised refugee policy. the fact that no portfolio has been created is actually a way of distancing myself from this insane challenge. if you look at the southern side of the mediterranean, and if you look at what we have done so far, it is really irresponsible how this issue is being handled. let me be the last to wish mrs mogherini well. mr juncker and mrs mogherini are taking up their top posts at a time when the war in ukraine is still going on despite the ceasefire. they are taking up their responsibilities at a time when we are still not quite sure how to respond to the escalation in iraq and syria. i really hope that the foreign ministers in the european union will finally recognise that a good european foreign and security policy can only be made together and that the eternal debate over where the competence lies has brought us to this very weak situation of today. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president of the commission! some speeches just reveal themselves. there's nothing more to say. it's just embarrassing now. there are speeches in this house that make me think. i am not saying that the commission should be a party to the treaty, but i am saying that it should be a party to the treaty. it is hard to understand how such a standard can be set. the question is whether this commission, in its composition and its approach, has any idea of how to deal with the problems in europe in these difficult times. i find it interesting and courageous to tackle a new structure. i don't know if this idea will work 100% either. but this is an attempt to make the commission's work more effective. finally, someone is not just babbling about the fact that we have to concentrate on doing the important and essential things and perhaps leave the details to the member states. everybody's been talking about that for years. now, at last, it is being documented in the form of a structure, in the form of a vice-president. but of course, mr president, we also want to see action. i can see that. we'll see the results later. but the structure offers the opportunity. and it is a commission - which i also find highly interesting and exciting - and for which much more support would have to be organized, with weaknesses and strengths. it is never the same for all people, but it focuses on the issues that are crucial to the future of the people of europe. this is the reality of human beings. let's do something! let's create something that will improve living conditions, that will improve working conditions, that will create growth. what good are these proverbs, all these programmes, if they are not effective? it is therefore right to say that we must look carefully at the places where we are having an impact and the means by which we are having an impact. that is why it is right to say that we cannot have a bonfire, just burn the money, but it must have an effect. we must therefore consider whether the money we are already spending is always being spent correctly and effectively. that is why it is right that, of course, thrift should be the first priority. if you keep wasting your money, you'll never get a chance to shape up. it is also right that priorities are being set - i have heard far too little about this today - in research, innovation and shaping the future. it is therefore right to argue with the council about where these priorities should be in the future. i am already annoyed by the fact that the 2015 budget is being cut back, especially in the research sector. this is bullshit. we all talk about innovation and investment. yes, there must be investment in this area. the socialist group has just said that nobel prize winners are increasingly coming from europe. do you know where they're being mined? we have to do it in our european institutions. i think it's a great try. he deserves support, not bullshit.
mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! it is a serious phrase to speak of the 'last chance commission'. but it's a true phrase. we wish this commission of the last chance luck, we wish it success, but above all we wish it sincerity and courage. this offer of cooperation can only work if we meet each other with sincerity and courage. honesty means that we must tell things as they are and stop making things up. no, in the next three years we will not be in a much better economic situation because the last seven years have cost us so much that the efforts must be of a longer-term nature. but we have to start now. mr juncker, do not let this course of increased investment turn you off! and do not be persuaded that these efforts can be made with the least effort. on the contrary, it must be measured by the maximum output and the most productive use of resources, not by the least effort. we must put an end to this policy of whitewashing, which is constantly lying about the situation without tackling the problems effectively. we support you in this, and we wish you luck. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question, and i hope that he will give us a clear answer. that is the spirit in which we want to work.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. the major challenge for the new commission is the weakness of european growth. this weak growth is a cause for concern, as europe is on the verge of recession and deflation. you should ask yourself why this is so, because all the other countries in the world have now overcome the consequences of the financial crisis, except the eurozone. it is not just the crisis countries of the eurozone that are having difficulties, but now - you said it - the world champion is also in a bad shape. the world champion, you said, has to get used to the fact that he may not be well for good. and while you may have thought about football, unfortunately, the same is true for the economy. the situation in germany is that germany is shrinking, france is shrinking, italy is shrinking. the crisis has reached the heart of the european union and has not been overcome. you should start thinking about whether the eurozone crisis has something to do with the euro. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the promises that the euro will lead to growth and prosperity are worth as much as a junk bond, not as much as a triple-a. since you - like mr verhofstadt - seem to have learned your economic recipes only from john maynard keynes and have not learned anything since the 1930s, all the afd members of the house will vote against you today.
in writing. i voted today for the election of the new european commission. i didn't make this decision lightly. the main reason for my yes was that both jean-claude juncker personally and the commissioner responsible for social affairs, marianne thyssen, had promised to support my efforts to promote a fundamentally more family-friendly eu policy and a non-legislative 'european family strategy' as the basis of this policy. that's how i'm going to measure it for the next five years. i expect family friendliness to be a fundamental principle of europe! the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very good one. this is a no. i expect quick, concrete action. mr juncker, you promise a new commission without a boxed mind, a political commission at the side of the citizens, a new movement for europe. i trust you. don't let me down. let europe have its gas! give europe a new direction! let's make it better! and family friendly!
in writing. the commission headed by mr juncker has not lived up to the expectations of european citizens in many respects. it is characterized on the one hand by commissioners who are committed to continuing and deepening the european policy of the past and on the other hand by a large number of commissioners who are not technically up to the task. in this connection, mr moscovici, mr katainen and mr dombrovskys are particularly worthy of mention. in the hearings before parliament, these gentlemen were unable to convince a majority of members either politically or technically. they are merely the result of an unworthy act behind the scenes in this house, an act that is not open to discussion from a democratic point of view and which confirms and reinforces the worst fears and reservations of many citizens about the eu and its institutions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the right to vote and stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament. i would have preferred it had influenced as many governments to nominate more qualified candidates.
in writing. the new commission has set itself some ambitious objectives. the aim of an investment package is a clear indication that, after years of saving at the expense of europe's people, it is time to finally make sure that europe's economy and society are shaped for the future. the focus must be on ensuring that europe is no longer a purely economic europe, but that the commission finally takes responsibility for social europe. we are calling for a social investment pact, for clear and specific measures to combat unemployment, wage and social dumping and poverty. we want to set these objectives and the commission and the member states to measure them regularly. just as we are monitoring compliance with economic indicators in the context of the european semester, we must in future set ambitious targets to combat poverty, combat youth unemployment and create good, sustainable and not at all precarious jobs. the new commission must clearly take a stand in favour of the people of europe and must no longer put free competition before the interests of the people.
the next item on the agenda is the election of the commission. i would point out that there will be a round of speeches by the group chairmen before the vote.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not we now had ample time to discuss the new commission, to weigh the pros and cons. i would like to begin by saying that many of them have reiterated their individual positions. i've heard terms like neoliberalism, austerity, flexibility, and so on, and i've seen a lot of them. i would now advocate that we apply the thinking in compromise, that we get out of the political viewpoints and instead come to a compromise. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i therefore ask all colleagues once again to be aware of their responsibilities. if we do not support and reject the commission today, if there is no majority for it, then we risk a bit of crisis and instability in europe. i would like to make a further appeal to mrs harms, the green group: the fact that we are voting against it for certain substantive reasons that everyone can understand, i would reply by saying that europe is certainly not in a better position in the forthcoming climate talks if we do not have a functioning commission. this argument can also be made and should perhaps be reconsidered. i would therefore urge that everyone in this house today not only argues from a party point of view, that everyone who presses a button now does not argue from a personal national or party or group point of view, but is aware of their overall responsibility. i am glad to say that the epp group will support the new commission as a whole. (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. the decision we are making today is a political decision. it is not a question of whether we think you, mr juncker, are clever enough to lead this commission or whether we think mr timmermans is a natural communicator. the question really is: is the commission politically capable of bringing about the necessary change that is coming? you yourself described the drama of the task. you've described her very well. but what you have initiated is not, in our view, sufficiently gripping. it is not clear enough whether this european union will really be moving massively in the coming weeks, months and years towards becoming a democratic, sustainable and solidary union. by that standard, you haven't convinced us. too many members of your commission are provoking doubts that they are willing and able to act against exactly what was expressed by the citizens in the vote and what also led to this leak between the citizens and the european institutions, that you want to introduce exactly these course corrections, that you are against an austerity policy, that you will actually work for more democracy, for another eu migration policy that ends with us conducting migration policy with joint police actions or with frontex, but creates the legal ways for people to come here and be protected by us as well. the criticism of mr navracsics' appointment shows that no one is denying his transformation into a champion of greater democracy, cultural openness or media freedom. does anyone really believe that the new commission will take the fight to protect animals, people, the environment and the climate as far as it should go? we were also unable to determine, on request, at the hearings how the triple a for a social union you have so much invoked is to be enforced. if the commissioners interviewed at the hearings were not even able to clearly state that the austerity policy is not in line with the european charter of fundamental rights, with the granting of human rights, how can this change be made? how can this change be made? we are not only criticizing you and the commission. i am quite frankly disappointed in some of the members of this house. unfortunately, some groups have become hostages to the grand coalition, to a game, and this has started with the nomination and election of you, mr juncker, as president of the commission. what we have been told is a historic victory for the rights of parliament has now degenerated into a barter between some groups for the passage of candidates. this price is too high for us!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is also aware of the fact that the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations on the future of the european union. i still find it remarkable that we are at a point that already marks a break. the future president of the commission, jean-claude juncker, is the man who was elected to this position by the european parliament. this is a very important step forward for the development of european democracy. it is a pity that the opportunity was missed to make this commission, the juncker team, a european parliament team on the basis of the hearings. the package between the governments of the member states and the political groups in this house and the three parties behind them was indeed too tightly knit for that purpose. this is a missed opportunity for the further advance of european democracy. we will have to talk in this house about how we can make the appearance of hearings the essence of hearings again and actually strengthen the power of the european parliament in the future. but let me tell you something. my group has also regarded a number of commissioners positively and has given them that assessment. we are a pro-european group in this house. we know that the very great challenges we face, namely the fight against the deregulation of the financial markets, which is still not won, the fight for a more social europe, the fight for climate protection and energy security, can only be won by europeans working together. that is why, despite our refusal, today marks the beginning of an optimistic and european cooperation with the commission of jean-claude juncker.
thank you, thank you. (some members hold up banners.) we saw that. i don't mind if you stop. i'm not going to stop. but i think mrs le pen, who will be speaking now, will not be very happy about that. you have your photographs now, please return to your seats.
we shall now vote on the commission. (the president declared the vote to be taken and the steps to be taken) (the vote will be taken by roll call) the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs. i hereby declare that the commission has been elected. (parliament adopted the resolution) i have given mr juncker the information on the majority vote of the european parliament in the election of the commission. i congratulate you, mr juncker, now officially on behalf of the whole house. i would also like to congratulate all the elected members of the european commission, its vice-presidents and commissioners, and on behalf of all members of parliament, i wish them every success in their difficult task of serving the citizens of the european union. (applause from the centre)
the next item is the voting time. i understand that not all colleagues are equipped with voting lists. but i think the respective chief whips have at least a list. that's why it's the right thing to do. until everyone has taken their seats and because not all the new members have heard this, a word about the voting system: on the last vote of the day, if you leave before the vote is closed, you must not draw your ballot card, otherwise your vote will not be recorded in the system. so you should not draw the ballot until a vote is closed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we had decided in the transport committee, with the support of all the members, that we wanted to invest 0.5% of the money for the transport committee in the 14 eurovelo routes. this was not taken into account in the committee on budgets. i have therefore been instructed by all the coordinators to submit this request for 0.5% of the transport budget to be allocated to the eurovelo routes. i would ask you to agree to this, because we did not think it was right for the committee on budgets to interfere in the internal affairs of the committee on transport and take a different decision from the committee. i therefore ask for approval for 472 and later also for 473 on behalf of all the coordinators of the transport committee.
i thank you very much, mr arnott. the committee on budgets has a special role in the budgetary procedure. the commission's proposals are therefore first made available. we shall therefore first vote on motion no 157. - after the vote:
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
in writing. - we had the opportunity to get an idea of the suitability of each candidate. there were some very convincing people there, like mr hill and mr oettinger. but there are two other candidates besides mr juncker who i do not think are suitable. mr juncker has been particularly vocal in southern europe in favour of the com munication of public debts through the so-called 'eurobonds'; in germany, he liked to keep it quiet. mr juncker is responsible for breaking down the firewall between german taxpayers and spendthrift politicians in southern europe and france by helping to tear down the no-bail-out clause. for years mr moscovici in france has not cared about the maastricht criteria or the fulfilment of the fiscal pact. mr katainen, who has repeatedly pointed out the beneficial effects of a 300 billion investment project, did not answer mr lucke's question as to where he intended to get the money. if the members had had the opportunity to vote on the candidates individually, i would have voted for mr oettinger and mr hill. but neither is good enough to be worth accepting, including juncker, moscovici and katainen. that is why i am denying my consent to the commission.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the european elections gave citizens the opportunity to choose between different leading candidates for the first time. although the procedure is not yet perfect, it is an important step towards strengthening european democracy. juncker's reform of the commission with a strong vice-president creates leaner structures and hopefully less bureaucracy. so there are a lot of positives in european politics. a strong commission is needed at a time when chancellor merkel and president hollande are trying to circumvent the rules for stable finances and sustainable economic reforms in france. however, we do not have confidence that this commission will oppose these attempts with sufficient determination and will enforce the treaty. on the contrary, we fear that the commissioner responsible may even support it. the economic slowdown in germany, the high level of unemployment in france and the increasingly desperate measures taken by the ecb show that this is the wrong way to go. market reforms, not pension gifts or new debt, are the key to growth, jobs and new opportunities for millions of people across the eu who want to finally return to productive work. the commission is unfortunately so wrongly positioned on this key issue that the fdp could not agree with it.
in writing. - like more than 200 other members, i voted against this commission. jean-claude juncker rightly called this commission the commission of the last chance. a commission of the last chance to bury democracy and the rule of law once and for all in europe. but, mr juncker, do not underestimate the citizens of europe! these citizens are increasingly and more clearly seeing where your course and that of your accomplices is leading us: towards a planned economy and a rigid state economy. the european parliament has been a great help to the commission in its efforts to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of education and training. but more than 200 years of enlightenment have not passed our society by without a trace. we citizens will know how to defend ourselves. this commission will have no chance in its quest to achieve a democratic, free and diverse society in europe.
in writing. - i have refused to give my consent to the appointment of the president, the eu minister for foreign affairs and the other members of the commission as a college for the term of office until 31 october 2019. the eu commission, as the eu's government (executive), is also the initiator of eu legislation (legislative). this is a fundamental violation of the principle of separation of powers inherent in the rule of law. i am in favour of less eu powers and more sovereign rights for the member states. jean-claude juncker and his commission are the opposite. the appointment of the failed french finance minister as commissioner for economic affairs alone makes the whole commission ineligible.
in writing. - i could not agree to the appointment of the new european commission headed by jean-claude juncker. i demand that the eu institutions abide by their own laws. the lisbon treaty calls for the size of the european commission to be reduced from this year to two thirds of the number of member states, i.e. to 19 commissioners. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. the new commission lacks the will to change and renew the european union, which is urgently needed. i also criticise some of juncker's staffing decisions. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia and the situation in the former yugoslavia. let me emphasize that my voting behaviour is not directed at günther oettinger or many other competent colleagues. but since the procedure does not allow individual votes, which is bound to change in the future, i was forced to vote against the new european commission.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have a de facto european government now, and i hope that the new impetus will extend to budgetary planning. the budgetary truth and clarity should prevail. the budget is the policy expressed in figures. we still have this phenomenon that, depending on how you calculate it, we have between 25 and 33 billion unpaid bills. the reason why they cannot be paid is that the member states do not want to refund their membership fees. i think that would be the first and most important task for the commission, together with parliament, to restore budgetary accuracy and budgetary clarity. that is why i voted for the commission today, because i hope that the commission can take a decisive step forward in this respect.
in writing. - the draft amending budget is an accounting hocus-pocus and incompatible with article 18 (1) of the eu financial regulation, which this parliament itself adopted. the eu financial regulation requires surpluses on the balance sheet side to be booked in the following financial year. the payments by member states to the eu should decrease accordingly. but that is not possible now. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. article 18 (1) of the financial regulation provides that the balance of each financial year, depending on whether it is a surplus or a deficit, is to be entered in the budget of the following financial year as revenue or as expenditure in the form of an amending budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to draw the house's attention to a technical problem in the field of agriculture or agricultural policy in the context of the budgetary discussions. we are currently experiencing a crisis in agricultural sales as a result of russia's reaction to the european embargo policy. we have a fall in the price of fruit and vegetables, now dairy products, and there are signs of a similar situation in the pig sector. i would like to point out that we are naturally keen to manage the crisis. we will support the farmers. we have a crisis fund, which is also correct, but we will also have to use part of the so-called cash-back funds. that hasn't happened yet. there are still heated discussions. i hope that together with the committee on agriculture, the committee on budgets and the commission we will find a solution to this problem.
in writing. - the resolution on the general budget contains a number of inconsistencies. the ep is opposed to all the council's proposals for austerity. the text stresses the need for decentralised agencies, although it has always been emphasised that the 'agencyitis' should be combated. some agencies could be dissolved altogether, for example the european gender institute or the fundamental rights agency. the institutions of the european system of financial supervision are also to receive an increase of eur 6.1 million, although there is always talk of savings. i have the impression that this annual budget is not coherent. the savings potential is not being used intelligently. my proposal is to rethink spending policy and to pay only for programmes where the eu really adds value without taking on national responsibilities. as a first concrete measure of budgetary consolidation, the commission should be prohibited from using accounting tricks which consist in simply carrying over unpaid invoices to the next financial year in order to meet payment commitments entered into. this has led to a debt/deficit of eur 23 billion over the years. the eu does not comply with the principle of the 'honest merchant'.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the greens, especially in germany, have launched an impressive campaign in recent days, mainly on the internet, against the support of bullfighting by eu funds. the german social democrats support this. with all due respect to the cultural life in spain, the citizens do not want their tax money to be used for this. the greens have given the impression that the final decision will be taken today, and that is not true. the greens propose to add a restrictive sentence in the commentary on the budget line on the single payment scheme, quote: 'this cannot stop eu subsidies for bullfighting, as the greens are calling for on the internet. because no administration in the world can control today whether a bull standing on a meadow somewhere in the eu today will be taken to a bullfighting arena tomorrow. so this proposal by the greens is either naive or has a different objective. that's on the website, too. the greens are aiming to achieve the following goal by voting by name: 'that we will know exactly who supports us and who does not'. we german social democrats will not allow ourselves to be slandered. we are against public funding for bullfights, but we know that the rules of eu agricultural support cannot be changed by budget figures. it is a pity that the greens are politically misleading tens of thousands of committed animal welfare activists.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i won't strain your patience. of course it is important that we do more for research and employment. of course we have to invest more, better spend more money, as they say. but that is not in the voting text either, so i would like to explain my voting behaviour again. we should look again at the programmes to see if they really work, because the best programme is of no use to us if it is not safe to use, if it does not work, one could even say if it is not counterfeit-proof. we have examples, of course, in the agricultural sector in the countryside: if some programmes have error rates of up to 25% in some member states, there is little point in making more money available through these programmes. it involves taking a proper inventory, doing a proper evaluation and making the programs - i always do it for the good of the people - user-friendly so that things like this don't happen again.
in writing. - apart from the fact that i cannot agree with the general budget because it shifts a billion-dollar mountain of debt by postponing payment commitments already entered into, i would point out that there are also major contradictions with the commission's statements within the plan. the importance of research and development for europe's future competitiveness is regularly mentioned, and then cuts are made in this area. i would also like to point out that the disproportionate reduction in research funding for education research is diametrically opposed to what european politicians say about the importance of education. no, the eu is right not to have a competence in education, which individual countries can do much better. in my country this is even the responsibility of the individual länder, but if there is anything to be done together in the field of education on a european basis, it is certainly in educational research. now many will ask: where does the money come from? i will give you an example: instead of trying to buy the elimination of youth unemployment with billions, which is not possible anyway, a different european policy could have ensured that the south of europe, including france, would not lose its growth, its industry and its jobs because of a too high exchange rate for the euro.
in writing. the crisis has shown that the confidence of economic actors is of paramount importance for stability. the consolidation and reform policy must therefore be respected, as must the eu budgetary rules agreed by the member states. the massive excesses of spending that are being prayerfully called for in economically healthy countries for the benefit of other countries, which are mostly nothing more than a bonfire, do not solve financial problems in a lasting way. the recommended set of economic indicators for macroeconomic assessments is a useful tool to obtain an accurate picture of the situation in the eu member states. this is also true for employment and social indicators. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i am firmly opposed to automatic stabilisers such as an eu unemployment insurance scheme, in line with the position of the cdu/csu meps. the eu must not become a transfer union! there is no european labour market or eu employment agency. the trade unions negotiate wages with employers at national, not european, level. the own-initiative report highlights key elements of the ambitious €300 billion investment plan of commission president jean-claude juncker. the priority is to unleash the power of smes, improve access to finance and reduce bureaucracy. overall, the framework conditions need to be adapted if the eu is to become a true centre for smes, knowledge and industry.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution. the only advantage of this text is that the ep openly admits that the 'european semester' is used for the budgetary and macroeconomic surveillance of the member states. the aim of the community's involvement is to make the measures provided for in the european semester compulsory. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a welcome step forward. with the implementation of the roadmap 'towards a genuine economic and monetary union' (5 december 2012), the eu is de facto abolishing the budgetary sovereignty of the member states. the commission will also be responsible for the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting. this leads to a profound centralisation of economic policy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the ep also calls for the rapid completion of the banking union, insurance union and markets union from more transfer of competence to brussels is hardly conceivable. the commission is also proposing to make labour market policy and unemployment benefits more common. i reject that.
the explanations of vote are closed. (the sitting was suspended at 2.25 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in kobane and the is threat (2014/2899 ((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not when we discuss the situation in kobane, our focus must be on the safety and lives of civilians in and around kobane. the turkish government is being told that all those fleeing the disputed region of kobane must be taken in. turkey has been very generous in taking in refugees from syria and we must support it in this. it is also welcome that turkey has finally opened the border to allow peshmerga fighters into kobane, as this is to prevent the advance of clearly identifiable isil fighting units into settlement areas. the council of foreign ministers has called for the border to be opened, but it has not explicitly mentioned the situation of the kurds. but if we are looking for a viable solution, the question of cross-border support for the kurds or the identity of the kurds in the region must not be ignored. the eu should also work towards the resumption of the peace process between the turkish government and the pkk. the eu should also make clear to the turkish government that the toleration of the flourishing trade of isil in archaeological treasures or other goods via turkey's shadow economy must be stopped as a matter of urgency. we hear about the ups and downs in the pushback against isis in kobane. but there are also other very negative news, such as the taking of the small kurdish town of karatapa by isis on monday or the current siege of the yazidis. we must prepare ourselves for a multiannual fight against isis, and as the foreign ministers' council has rightly pointed out, we need a lasting solution, and that can only be a political solution. the eu needs a comprehensive regional strategy for syria and iraq. and this must include elements such as strengthening the central government in iraq and continuing the geneva conference on syria under the auspices of the un and involving neighbours in the region. that includes iran.
mr castaldo, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. you have not exceeded your speaking time. i've warned you three times. we have a lamp in front of the house so that the new colleagues know. listen to me, please! we have a lamp in front of us that lights up when the interpreters are not coming. and if you want your fellow italians to understand what you have to say, you must speak slowly, at least not so fast that you cannot translate it. you have 30 seconds left.
mr smith, i can only allow questions and that was not a question.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the people of rojava have many enemies, not just the most terrible, isis. this fight is not just about survival, it is a wonderful political project, an experiment in a free society, a participatory, non-discriminatory, just democracy. that is what people are fighting for, and that is what we owe them real solidarity for. turkey and syria are opposed to this project because it challenges their nationalism and their authoritarian regimes. the united states is trying to regain influence over an area of great economic and strategic importance. nato air strikes against is and simultaneous attacks by nato partner turkey on positions held by the pkk; alleged support for the kurds and simultaneous arms deliveries to saudi arabia and qatar; isis videos with german hand grenades. when will these arms deliveries finally stop? when will effective pressure be brought to bear on turkey to stop all support for is immediately and to open the borders to kurdish fighters, not just the peshmerga? the immediate step must be to withdraw the patriots and lift the ban on the pkk. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i am not sure that this is the case. i'm at a loss for words, given what you're telling me. do you really think it is the western measures to try to help the people of kobane that are the problem in this situation? do you really think that the american and european efforts are the problem? do you not think that it is a terrorism that is inhumane that we are seeing, that is the problem and that we must act against? i'm really disgusted by what you just said! - i'm not going anywhere.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i have already answered that question. i really wonder why there is a hypocritical call to support the people against isis, and at the same time, as in the last afet, for example, the eu representative to turkey has in no way declared his readiness to change his policy. that's what this is about. the point is to put pressure on turkey. why didn't that happen? i can only say: why is the german government not agreeing to withdraw the patriots? that would put real pressure on turkey. there are enough fighters defending kobane. why can't these fighters cross the border? why does turkey still have the ability to support isis? these are questions i ask. it really scares me that these questions are not understood.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the absence of the high representative today is really inexplicable. it was her last chance to appear before this house. it's really not comprehensible. and just as the absence of any foreign policy remarks in jean-claude juncker's programme this morning has shown that this parliament is actually the wrong place for a debate. there is no common european approach. the council does nothing, even though there are probably countless eu cors going back and forth between the foreign ministers and you feel that you are doing something. it's all right. what is needed is instead a special nato summit. the only place where turkey can really be caught is in nato, where it cannot escape, where it can be asked to take a clear stand against isis. it's the only chance we have of making it. the european union and i regret that as a member of the foreign affairs committee of this house extremely is the wrong place for this debate. this debate belongs in nato, because nato is the only organization that can regulate the whole thing. the council does nothing. the high representative is absent. i think that says it all.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the unimaginable atrocities, killings and human rights violations committed by isis and other terrorist groups must be condemned in the strongest terms. we need to stop isis with all the means at our disposal, and we need to do so immediately and decisively. but one thing should not be forgotten: the strength of isis in syria was made possible by president assad's brutal war against his own people. i would therefore like to point out that the foreign affairs council decided this monday that the assad regime cannot continue to be a partner in the fight against isis. it is well known that additional sanctions have also been decided against syria. the european union is not a party to the conflict. this was emphasized by mr juncker in the plenary this morning. and in the fight against isis, as in the fight against other terrorist groups, the use of military means is as important and as urgent as humanitarian aid. both components must now be integrated into a longer-term political strategy against terrorism in iraq and syria under the leadership of the new high commissioner mogherini. that is our urgent task.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in hong kong (2014/2900 ((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the s&d group in this house definitely wants to contribute to a peaceful settlement of the conflicts in hong kong. for a peaceful solution, we need the hong kong executive to engage with the civil society representatives who have taken to the streets. that exchange of views yesterday was a good start. we need a whole series of such dialogues to find a solution that satisfies everyone. we also warn against escalating this conflict. it's not good for anyone. we must show restraint, both from the security services and, of course, from the protesters. after all, it must be said that public order must be maintained in the city of hong kong. there is no way to resolve this conflict by force. what's the conflict? we know that the basic act, the constitution of hong kong, provides for a general election for the chief as the final stage. this is now to be carried out in 2017. the method of doing this is set out in the annex to the basic act. there is a large representative assembly with representatives of business, politics, civil society and also religious communities. now the conflict is about the composition of this great assembly. what is the procedure for electing the candidates to the general assembly, which then elects the people? i think hong kong has made a lot of strides in the past few decades towards becoming an open society. we have a higher degree of freedom of speech, of the media, of assembly. and this process should not be stopped now. it must be continued. there is actually some hope that the next steps towards 2017 are still possible. we think that there should be an opening here, within the laws that exist in hong kong, within the rules that exist in china as part of the whole state. china is our strategic partner. we are interested in stability, not chaos.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not we greens view the current democracy movement in hong kong with sympathy and solidarity, even though we are on the sidelines of this internal chinese affair. but i would remind mr tannock and a few others that democracy was not always the first priority in hong kong when it was a british colony. today hong kong is part of china, and the democracy movement there is clearly not at all interested in changing that. contrary chinese propaganda creates unnecessary tensions. recently, i've been concerned about the sharpness of chinese voices. the democracy movement is pushing for the implementation of previous political promises to elect hong kong's top administration. the ccp should listen to these voices. in hong kong, a leadership based solely on a socioeconomic alliance between the chinese communist party and the city's richest people is not viable. with goodwill, the leadership in beijing could turn to the hong kong democrats. i hope it will do so, i hope the dialogue will continue and not be interrupted, and i hope for a mutually peaceful outcome to the present situation.
- i'm not going to. i must point out that we have an agenda item to discuss. i would be grateful if the honourable members would take this into account in their further contributions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i admire the students and protesters in hong kong for their courage, their determination and their strength. they want free elections in 2017, and they don't want the ccp to pre-select the candidates, and that's right. now, after more than three weeks of protests, talks have begun. i demand that there be genuine and open negotiations between the hong kong government and the protesters. i demand above all that there be no violence. there must be no second massacre like the one in tiananmen, and i do not want the police to use violence on a daily basis. i am convinced that only a truly democratic development in hong kong will make the city truly more stable. that's why we have to negotiate so seriously now. i demand that in 2017 candidates who are not pre-selected by the cp be admitted. that would be a real opening, a real change. for this, the chinese communist party must act. i also expect the chinese delegation to our house to cooperate closely with the democratic forces in hong kong.
thank you, thank you. please keep to the time of the speech. we're way past the time.
thank you for sticking to the time. (cheers and applause)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. last night, for the first time, talks took place between the hong kong government and representatives of the student movement. although these discussions have not yet produced any concrete results, they are a positive sign. only through continuous dialogue can a peaceful solution be found. as a student, i witnessed the peaceful revolution in east germany in 1989, and my family joined the protests. one result of this is that i can speak here today in the european parliament for the first time. the demand of the hong kong students for more democratic participation, as guaranteed in the 1997 founding act, deserves our support. we social democrats will continue to maintain contact with the student representatives. the relationship between china and taiwan is a positive example of sustained dialogue. the dew conditions in the taiwan strait show that a rapprochement is possible by a convergence. in hong kong, dialogue must continue and meaningful compromises must be negotiated. only then can a common solution be found which is acceptable to all parties and which also ensures political and social peace in the long term.
the debate is closed.
mr buonanno, you have one minute to make a point of order. i think it was clear after a short time what you were talking about. i would suggest this: if you feel offended by this, contact the quaestor responsible for the artwork in the buildings to have it checked. we have procedures for this. if that's a problem, you can talk to him. then it will be decided accordingly. written declarations (article 162) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the death sentence against asia bibi (2014/2911 ((rsp)).
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on european is fighters (2014/2901 ((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i want to make a point. what the council and the commission have presented here will not help to put an end to the killing in syria. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but of course we must not underestimate the danger posed by violent people and their supporters. but people must be able to trust that all the measures we take are based on respect for european fundamental rights. extremism is not christian, jewish or muslim. it is a question of power, it is a question of the rejection of our common european values, of our democratic systems. we must defend and protect them. the monitoring of suspects is legitimate, but people should not become suspects simply because they belong to a particular religion or ethnic group. it blinds the eye to other possibilities. i am thinking, for example, of the national socialist underground in germany, whose members were able to murder for years without interference because certain criteria were left out, although there were indications. the idea of withholding travel documents, which is currently being discussed, is not only critical for the sake of freedom of movement. the issue of a replacement identity card is even worse. it's a way of stigmatizing people without being charged with a crime or brought to justice. and finally, what is wrong with our societies, when young people, when our citizens seem to be becoming increasingly radicalized and turning away from our democratic systems, even though many of them have a good future? if we do not find answers to this question, we will lose the fight against radicalisation in europe.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. i am a little dismayed at the way in which the fight against the is fighters is being discussed amongst our colleagues. i sometimes wonder: must something happen in europe before we can react? or is it perhaps wise to agree on a reasonable, measured catalogue that does not automatically assume that passports are taken from unsuspecting persons? when a passport or travel document is taken, then there must be very clear criteria behind it that someone who wants to travel to syria accordingly comes from corresponding very suspicious circles and accordingly has potentially also been presented as a salafist or as someone who has shown himself to be very violent. i do not want us to ask ourselves in retrospect what we could have done, but our task is to prevent crime and to ensure that serious criminals are brought back to the european union, to make them a reality, to put them out of business and to prevent them from spreading in the european union. that i agree that we need to think potentially -- not just potentially -- about how it can happen that a small, radical group of people get on the road, that's right. but to say that the young people of europe are on their way is certainly wrong. it is a very small but, thank god, extremely brutal, horrifying, torturing, murdering and raping force. i think it is wrong to ignore these measures, which are too trivial. we must keep a little bit of perspective, that's necessary. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account in its proposals for the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. 12,000 fighters from 74 countries are fighting and killing in syria and iraq. we do not know how many of these actually come from europe. we do not know how many of them have dual citizenship. they are brutal, they kill and rape, and according to the latest press reports, they even dress up as kurds. they are a long-term threat, a threat with european passports. it is not helpful to ask, "how could this happen?" other they are the misguided products of a multicultural society which we, who stand for the identity of peoples, did not want. how long are they supposed to keep dual citizenship? how long are they going to be able to derive rights from this? and finally, what measures, what protections are we taking to prevent these people who have left europe from coming back every day as refugees, as asylum seekers, to threaten us here?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not two weeks ago, a description of the police operation mos maiorum was published. the debate on this has been very controversial ever since. of course we need police cooperation at european level, and we also need to fight smuggling gangs. similar actions as 'mos maiorum' do exist, we have heard that, regularly under the various council presidencies, although under different names. however, police cooperation cannot be our only response to the current refugee crisis. i would like to see more political ambition from the member states and, above all, a clear commitment to human rights, to the right of asylum, rather than always pointing out problems unilaterally. we must monitor the implementation of the principle of 'mos maiorum' in the individual member states. because immigrants cannot be stigmatized, criminalized or even traumatized by police action. just last week, we witnessed a migrant being brutally beaten by police at the spanish border with melilla. we couldn't confirm that he passed away. in the light of the current challenges, we must also re-examine the question of the distribution of asylum seekers in the eu. the 'mos maiorum' is not only about fighting organised crime, it is also about detecting so-called secondary migration movements - in other words, asylum seekers who do not lodge their application in the country of destination, as dublin actually proposes. my own country, germany, has recently been complaining regularly that other member states are not taking their responsibilities seriously and are simply sending refugees north. but if we now see in the outcome that dublin iii is overstretching the states on the external borders, then we must also come to the conclusion that dublin is not an adequate response to the challenges. we must distribute the vulnerable fairly across europe. to do this, we need a distribution key, for example, based on the size and economic power of a member state, to then clarify how many asylum seekers each state takes in. but in the medium and long term, we must also find other answers. we need safe routes to europe, because those that are supposed to be illegal are only illegal because there are hardly any legal ways for refugees to reach european borders, european states at all. we certainly need other legal immigration options for those who are not persecuted but want to work with us. finally, we must also seriously examine the impact of trade, energy and development policies of the eu and its member states on third countries and the extent to which we ourselves are responsible for the causes of migration.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. all over europe, people who look different in some way are being controlled and discriminated against. they are controlled because the member states want to catch irregular persons and criminals. but the people who actually detain them are often people who are in need of international protection. they're not going to find really dangerous people, criminals, organized criminals, that way. if they really want to do something about organised crime, then perhaps they should use their limited resources more efficiently and not in such a mass action, which is very difficult to reconcile with the schengen code. people are discriminated against by mos maiorum, because the police are reaching out to people who look different by some definition. this ethnic profiling has already been massively challenged by various court judgments. now the unhcr has once again shown the red card to ethnic profiling. how do you intend to ensure, as the presidency, as the member states, that the principle of non-discrimination is also respected here? how do you intend to ensure respect for human rights? and how will you - this has already been mentioned - ensure that parliament is informed in the future? that we don't need leaks, but that you come out of the blue, without us having to ask you, and say, "we're going to do this", what do you say? i would hope that from a council presidency. not only does the name 'mos maiorum' have a long history, a name that is totally out of place for such actions, totally out of place for the present situation and time, but it also has a completely outdated ideology. europe can do without that!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to start by saying that i would like to distance myself very clearly from mr borghezio on behalf of many in this house. the right to asylum is a right which we share across party lines, and mos maiorum is not, first of all, an attack on the right to asylum. and to take ebola and refugees in one mouth, i think it's just a little rude. (applause from the centre) i'm so outraged by this that i need to vent my anger a little bit. we are not going to vote for the report, but we are going to vote for the report. we do not want to hear it or see it in this parliament. i think that measures such as 'mos maiorum' are necessary. i think, however, that it is necessary, as does timothy kirkhope, that we should have been informed precisely, because then many of the misunderstandings which are now taking place in the public debate would not have arisen. i know that border guards and police authorities have great difficulty in carrying out their mission in the fight against organised crime, given that traffickers have a lot of financial resources and excellent logistics and do not shy away from any crime in order to obtain financial and criminal benefits for themselves through trafficking in human beings. that is why such measures are necessary, even if we would prefer not to have to take them. but i would also be equally pleased if, in the course of our efforts to better manage the flow of refugees and not to hand them over to organized crime, we could agree as quickly as possible on the ways in which we can improve our control, including by legal means, so that, in addition to the vehement fight against organized crime, which i have said i support 100%, we can also take away its substance, so to speak, by reinforcing legal means through resettlement and other methods. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mrs hohlmeier, you said that this police action was necessary. my question is: do you think that this can actually solve the migration problem? and do you think it is appropriate to do this now, when on the other hand people are actually dying at the eu's external borders and rescue and search operations are actually needed?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. first, mos maiorum was not created to solve the migration problem but to combat organised crime. those are two completely different things. no one wants to use 'mos maiorum' to solve the asylum problem or any other migration problem, because it cannot be solved. this is not the operation. secondly, frontex is also responsible for saving people in particular. we decided this together. unfortunately, we are faced with a bit of a dilemma, because criminals are trying to exploit this. that means that our goodwill is also partly exploited. i want to hunt down criminals and save people. maybe that's what connects us.
i have to say, madam president, in ancient rome, the custom of the ancestors, called "mos maiorum", may have had at least a power-political meaning. the statesman cato saw the stability of the vast empire as being guaranteed by making roman legal norms and unilateral allegiance obligatory. this questionable custom of the ancients was well-kept for a while, until the shop fell apart and rome fell. the fact that the police action in 25 member states is called 'mos maiorum' is a bad example and, moreover, a false analogy, because 'mos maiorum' in ancient rome also included the principle of justice. this police action has nothing to do with justice. this action, which is motivated by blind racism and contempt for humanity, is based on the very different notions of keeping clean, cleaning, removing, moving, and moving away. refugees are seen by those in power as a threat, as a nuisance, as insecure, as a nuisance, as expensive, as harmful. that's the spirit. the false gesture of mourning for the dead refugees in the mediterranean is now followed not by justice, with the 25 member states coming together to save lives, but by the purification orgy of 'mos maiorum'. in the spirit of cato, i conclude that i believe that such customs of the ancestors must be destroyed.
president of the council. - thank you, mr president, thank you to parliament and to the members who have taken part in a very serious debate on dramatic profiles which certainly, first of all, show that the context in which the european union as such is dealing with the question of immigration today is a context which is lacking at the very least. the council considers that the implementation of 'mos maiorum' contributes to the objective of enhancing security within the european union by strictly proportionate and necessary means, without compromising the protection of the third-country nationals concerned. the implementation of operation mare nostrum, i say this as a representative of the italian government, among other activities, clearly demonstrates italy's attitude towards those who seek to reach its borders and it was an operation on which we have received quite a few criticisms for its effectiveness in terms of human lives saved and for any effects in any way that this could have caused. i would point out that the rules of conduct for the operation state unequivocally that no person concerned shall be discriminated against on grounds of sex, race, ethnic or social origin or religion. the collection of information on the persons concerned, i.e. their nationality, sex and age, is not linked to the identity of the person concerned. the operational instructions of 'mos maiorum' expressly emphasise that no personal data should be entered in the relevant forms and that if this were to happen, such data would not be processed by the italian authorities and recall that in cases where they should be submitted, they will certainly be used in strict compliance with the criteria of the relevant case law of the european court of justice and the european court of human rights in strasbourg. the presidency is also convinced that operation mos maiorum will contribute, as in the case of previous similar operations, to providing the information needed for operations aimed at dismantling the criminal networks which endanger the lives and well-being of so many people every day. a successful outcome of the operation would also benefit all those, and above all those, who are vulnerable and at risk.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to try to dispel some of the misunderstandings between our two institutions on the question of the discharge and the budget of the council and the european council. first of all, i would like to emphasize what unites us: the european parliament and the council both attach great importance to the principle of sound financial management of the european institutions. but of course it is the commission's budget that is under the spotlight for its size and political and operational value. both parliament and the council want all financial operations of all the european institutions to be based on sound, regular and sound management. and both our institutions should be particularly careful to seek high quality standards in the management of their respective sections of the budget of the european union. article 319 of the treaty clearly defines a single discharge procedure for the entire budget of the european union. after the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors, the council shall adopt a recommendation to parliament on whether or not to grant a discharge to the commission in respect of the implementation of the budget. parliament shall then adopt that discharge decision. parliament has also developed a practice of adopting individual decisions on discharge in respect of the budgets of the other european institutions. this practice, as has been said, is not required by the treaty and is therefore not binding. the council considers that the discharge procedure is only for financial and budgetary management and does not extend to individual initiatives or to policies in general. for a number of years now the council has been pointing out a serious imbalance between what parliament feels it has to examine in relation to the council's budget and what parliament itself allows to be known in relation to its management. your report today reflects these two points which remain between our institutions and it is on this basis that you are called upon to vote today for the fourth time on a decision refusing to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the section of the budget of the european union relating to the council and the european council. however, i sincerely believe that there may be a way out of this situation. i have noted with interest paragraph 21 of the draft report we are discussing today, and i quote from it: 'parliament and the council could make some progress by jointly establishing a modus vivendi procedure with a list of documents to be exchanged in order to fulfil their respective roles in the discharge process. " in fact, this solution is not very far from what the council has proposed on several occasions in the past, for example in the draft memorandum of understanding submitted in 2011. if parliament is now interested in discussing a list of documents to be exchanged, we could obviously sit down and discuss the details of that list openly. i could personally imagine going beyond that. instead of a complex bilateral procedure, the council could unilaterally make available additional financial information on the websites of parliament and the council. i would call this proposal a 'friendly competition' between our two institutions to make our financial management even more transparent. the italian presidency is ready to explore every possible solution for a modus vivendi on the discharge procedure, also in agreement with the other two presidencies of our trio: the commission has also adopted a communication on the of course, this modus vivendi should be welcomed by both our institutions, the parliament and the council. a willing minority in both our institutions would not be enough. after these more conceptual and general remarks, let me return for a moment to the specific discharge process for the year 2012, which in principle will be concluded with today's vote. i would also like to point out that the court's audit of the 2012 implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council did not find any serious deficiencies or errors. in its annual report the court referred exclusively to two marginal weaknesses in the design of a procedure. apart from this problem, the court has not made any observations on the accounts of the european council and the council or on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. so this is a good result that you should take into account when you vote. thank you very much for your attention.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr tamás deutsch, for his clear words. i would also like to thank the council for the new mode proposed. it sounds pretty dramatic if we don't discharge now for the fourth year in a row. we are not suggesting that the funds have been misused to any great extent, that they have been misused or even that they have been defrauded. that's not our business. no, mr president of the council, it is about transparency. i find it highly unsatisfactory when the council has simply not responded to our requests for information in the past. who can now even understand how the money was used for the construction and refurbishment of the council building and whether the tenders were really used correctly? the court of auditors has, after all, found something, particularly in the area of tendering. i think it is the duty of a democratically elected parliament, the european parliament, to be behind this. it would be a very good sign in our dealings if the council recognized this and cooperated with us in the discharge. yes, you are right: there is no binding commitment not yet. i would therefore like to take up your proposal once again to implement the documentation obligations which we may then be able to impose on each other in the interests of transparency. i think that we cannot be obstinate here in parliament either. we will offer dialogue - at least that is what my group is asking for - and perhaps we will also reduce our demands on the depth of information. i think we owe it to the european taxpayer and the citizen, because what is at stake here is the sensible use, the trustworthy use of european money. i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr deutsch, once again for his clear words. i am, however, hopeful that we are on the right track.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for their work and then compliment the italian presidency. your presence here tonight is a positive sign. in my capacity as chairman of the committee on budgetary control, the committee on budgetary control has organised a hearing on the legal position of the european parliament in the context of the council's discharge. and if we look at the treaties, they clearly state that in the discharge procedure the council makes a recommendation, but the discharge is clearly vested in the european parliament, the directly elected members. this is not reciprocity, this is asymmetry. and how the european parliament, in its own capacity, shapes the discharge procedure, how we divide it up, how we deliberate on it, is clearly the competence of the european parliament. i therefore do not understand the council's reservations about a different procedure for discharge, nor do i understand why the presidency and the council do not provide parliament with the information it needs. the rapporteur, mr tamás deutsch, pointed out that: the gentlemen's agreement, if it existed at all, dates from a time when the european parliament was not directly elected. we have had a very different situation since 1979. we have had the lisbon treaty since 2009 with a significant strengthening of the european parliament, and in this context i would like to appeal to the council: i would like to ask you to accept a reasonable, proper discharge procedure. it is not possible for ministerial bureaucrats to want to control the european parliament's budget. on the contrary, all public expenditure by the taxpayer must be controlled by directly elected representatives, by democratically legitimized representatives, and this includes the council budget. we are fighting for this as the european parliament in the sense of democratic control of transparency and accountability.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to draw attention to the fact that in germany small credit institutions, savings banks, raiffeisenkassen and cooperative banks are at risk from the banking union, from the supervisory mechanism and from the common resolution mechanism. this is a major challenge to a key element of regional credit provision for smes. the fact is that the banking supervisory authorities, in their overabundance of regulatory requirements, do not take into account the fact that small institutions are much less able to meet the requirements imposed on them than large institutions. in addition, there is a strong preference for systemically important credit institutions in the form of an implicit state bailout guarantee which facilitates the refinancing conditions for large banks over those of small credit institutions. therefore, it is unfair that the small credit institutions have to participate in the resolution fund in the same way as the large banks. i therefore appeal to parliament to take a stand against small credit institutions.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we are in the midst of a debate on urgent motions for urgent resolutions on the current and pressing problems of violations of civil and human rights. this is also the case with the other two resolutions concerning mexico and memorial. i think we have already exchanged everything that is in the resolution on uzbekistan and we should have the debate. i am far from portraying uzbekistan as a stronghold of civil liberties and human rights. however, what we have here in our resolution is a reaction to the human rights watch report, and i think that the copy-paste procedure has been applied even to the wording, that we are taking the wording from this ngo and incorporating it into our resolution. i don't think that's how we should be doing things. the debate on uzbekistan must be held, but in another place and not when we are discussing urgent questions of civil and human rights here.
i have to say, madam president, i have expressly not voted for referral back to committee because i reject the political aims of mrs le pen. i'm for free trade. i am also in favour of trade liberalization with ukraine. but i would like to draw your attention to .... (the president withdraws the floor from the speaker.)
i have to say, madam president, how can we help a country which is in economic difficulties, where we see the danger that these economic difficulties will jeopardize social and democratic reconstruction? we are helping this country by extending our hand to it for economic relations, by extending and building economic contacts. that's what this motion says. we should give ukraine a chance. we should give the economy a chance. we should also improve and facilitate economic relations with the european union. trade relations, customs and other things are simply part of it. i would therefore like to interpret the situation in the opposite way, as some of my colleagues, as the small minority in this house, do: it is precisely in order to give ukraine a chance that we must facilitate economic and trade relations between ukraine and the european union.
i have to say, madam president, i did not take part in the vote because you did not allow me to speak when i presented myself for the vote. rule 41 (1) of the rules of procedure provides that parliament is to determine the financial consequences of an act. the financial impact has not been quantified in this act. the members of parliament did not know what the financial implications of the vote were. the commission proposal does not contain any quantification of the estimated financial deficit for the european union. the rapporteur's report does not indicate the financial impact of the waiver on customs revenue for the european union. i have a right to speak on the rules of procedure and you have denied me that right, madam president. that was unfair. you have failed to fulfil your duties as president and you have prevented the european parliament from being aware that it is taking a decision without even knowing what the financial implications of that decision are.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution. i would like to call on those who abstain or even vote against this vote to remember that this is not a decision against russia but a decision in favour of free trade with ukraine. where are we going if we let president putin dictate to us who we should trade with and on what terms?
in writing. - i abstained on this vote because, contrary to the provisions, the european commission has not quantified the expected reduction in the eu's financial revenue as a result of the abolition of the customs union. the report also fails to mention the financial impact of the waiver of customs duties. so the members are voting on a subject where important details are unknown. i am explicitly in favour of free trade, but if the absence of a customs union leads to less financial revenue for the eu, then the institutions should at least have the courage to admit this and to quantify the financial loss.
i have to say, madam president, i am also glad that parliament has today taken the decision not to discharge the european council. we have had all the budgetary debates this week. i would like to ask the council again, even though it is probably not directly relevant, to finally pay into the budget of the european union the arrears in membership dues which it has itself caused. i think it is highly indecent to be a member of the european union and then simply and gravely fail to fulfil my duties as a member state. the first duty is, of course, to meet in brussels, to help to bring about decent legislation, but the most important duty is also to pay the membership dues in a timely and orderly manner, because that is the only way the european union can remain operational.
in the case of the commission, the commission has not been able to provide the information it needs to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. billions of unpaid bills have been accumulated over years, creating a scandalous shadow budget. how can a parliament agree to such a flagrant breach of the most elementary budgetary rules? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - since 2009, parliament has regularly refused to grant discharge to the council and the european council. how much money are we talking about here? the european council and the council spend well over eur 500 million annually (2011: eur 563 262 480; the amount of the financial contribution shall be: the amount of the financial contribution shall be eur 5000000. expenditure is expected to amount to eur 536 800 000 in 2014 and eur 542 295 500 in 2015). this is taxpayer money from the citizens of the 28 member states, and is spent by the heads of state or government on their own responsibility for organising their cooperation at european level. there may be a political connotation to the fact that such large sums can be spent without control. on the other hand, there is no solid legal basis for the council to be obliged to disclose its budgetary management to parliament. this is a political power struggle between two eu institutions.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 23 october 2014.
the following table is added: ladies and gentlemen, on 9 november, 25 years ago, brave men and women tore down the berlin wall - a wall, reinforced by barbed wire, guarded by soldiers, a wall that had arbitrarily divided families, a whole country, a whole continent. this arbitrary division of germany and europe was ended by a peaceful revolution on 9 november 1989. no tanks rolled, no shots were fired, not a drop of blood was shed. on that night - november 9, 1989 - a european freedom movement reached its climax in berlin. where the year of wonders - as historian timothy garton ash has called it - was also looking in europe in 1989: the spark of freedom was lit. and it was not superpowers, nor were it statesmen who wrote history, it was the peoples of europe themselves who wrote their own history and changed the course of the world. let us remember once again: workers had gathered around lech wałęsa at the gdańsk shipyards, and solidarność's peaceful action was guided not by violence but by john paul ii's appeal to them to "fight evil with good". in prague, the velvet revolution began when hundreds of thousands of protesters in wenceslas square shouted "havel to the castle!" hungary built its border facilities with austria to close a crack in the iron curtain through which tens of thousands fled to freedom. from vilnius to riga to tallinn, a human chain was drawn, hand in hand, the baltic peoples, with their singing revolution, fought for independence. in leipzig, civil rights activists took the resistance from the church to the streets with the cry "we are the people!" and again and again "we are the people!" whether in berlin, leipzig, warsaw, prague or bratislava, vilnius, tallinn or riga: the paths to freedom and democracy have been different, but one thing they have always been: they have been peaceful. the people who demonstrated had in common their peacefulness and courage. it is thanks to you, ladies and gentlemen, to the freedom fighters in all these countries, that democracy and freedom have triumphed over injustice and dictatorship. these people wanted to get rid of the soviet yoke. but they were also concerned about something else, about a different theme of 1989: they were concerned about returning to europe. these peaceful revolutions of 1989 were not brought to a successful conclusion until the reunification of germany and then of europe, with the enlargement of the eu to the east ten years ago, and the return of the peoples of central and eastern europe to their rightful place in the family of peoples of europe. the fact that we, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of these peoples of europe, can work together here today, for example, is due to the courage of the people who took to the streets to defend their convictions. my dear colleagues. looking back, it explains a lot. but that banners and candles, flowers and songs, prayers and key chains would triumph over tanks and guns, over walls and borders, that was not guaranteed! how easily these demonstrations could have ended in bloodshed, as in 1953 in berlin, 1956 in budapest, 1968 in prague or a few months earlier in tiananmen square in beijing. we must bear that in mind today if we are to understand the courage of the men and women who took to the streets. therefore, nothing describes the era after the fall of the wall, after the end of the separation, better than the first sentence of the berlin declaration of 2008, which should also be our guiding principle for the future: "we are united for our happiness!"
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the wall is gone. 25 years ago, the berlin wall came down. the european parliament has been the first to express its opinion on the commission's proposals. the wall fell because citizens in the gdr peacefully demonstrated for unity and justice and freedom, because they felt that the authorities were no longer strong enough to stop them. the wall fell because people, politicians in germany, in europe and in the world condemned the oppression in the gdr, the unnaturalness of the wall and believed in the unity and unification of germany. the wall fell because systems that deny people freedom cannot survive. the wall fell because bankrupt systems cannot survive. the wall fell because people in estonia, latvia, lithuania, hungary, czechoslovakia and poland created the conditions for this change. it was not a miracle, nor was it a natural phenomenon, but the result of a peaceful revolution unprecedented in history, which for months has been moving from one peak to another at a breathtaking pace. one thing is certain: without the numerous civil rights movements that developed into popular movements in the late summer of 1989 and expressed their desire for change in peaceful mass demonstrations, this november 9th would not have happened in berlin. the fall of the berlin wall was an event of european significance. how many times i stood at the berlin wall as a young man! i was very uncertain if i would ever see that wall come down. and what uncertainty or even fear i felt when i visited the gdr and had to undergo interrogation procedures at the friedrichstraße station, for example! this repression, this surveillance, this feeling of surveillance, it lasted for maybe a couple of hours. the people of the gdr lived under such a regime for decades. all that's over, and that's why we're celebrating these days. but these 25 years since the fall of the wall have also brought a bit of normality: it has become normal, you don't remember. some 23 million germans cannot remember the fall of the berlin wall because they were born after 1985. but these young people can learn from the fall of the wall, just as we politicians can. we must make sure that young people learn from this. politics must pursue long-term goals and persevere and not give up, as parts of the world and german politics have done on the question of reunification. politics must also take chances, without courage it is not possible. helmut kohl seized the opportunity and made the most of it. we germans are infinitely grateful for the reunification. and we europeans have continued to write our common history ever since. the fact that we are celebrating together today in a democratic parliament with members from 28 member states would have been unthinkable 25 years ago. the world will continue to change. we in the european parliament have the right to help bring about these changes. and the fall of the wall reminds us that boundaries can be overcome, that seemingly given conditions can change, that we can never be too sure. it also means that we must defend and fight for achievements worth preserving. we must defend and develop the europe we have created together. the fall of the berlin wall has become a symbol of the overcoming of authoritarian systems in eastern and central europe. and that memory must be kept alive, too. the south african nobel peace prize winner desmond tutu has made a wise statement which i would like to conclude with: nothing, not even the most modern weapons, not even the most brutal police force, no, nothing at all will be able to stop people once they are determined to achieve their freedom and their human rights. thank you very much.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. after 25 years, my countrymen showed once again last weekend how happy they are about the reunification and how proud they are that it was possible without bloodshed. the germans are grateful, too. of course, the east germans showed us then how to demonstrate courageously, and west german politicians also reacted decisively. i am thinking here of helmut kohl, hans-dietrich genscher, willy brandt, and i would like to thank all of you for your support. but on this day, i also want to remember those who have gone before us who were braver and more determined than we are. my first personal memory was of the attempt by construction workers in east berlin on june 17, 1953, to shake off the communist yoke. in june 1956, the poles rose up against the communist rulers in posen. in the autumn of 1956, the hungarians rose up. the whole world held its breath, leaving hungary alone. i will never forget the names imre nagy and pál maléter. in 1968, the tanks of the warsaw pact turned the prague spring into a prague winter. another name that i can't forget and that has been mentioned before: alexander dubček. in 1977 the czech and slovak blueprint for freedom was published: charter 77. we are grateful to remember the names of pavel kohout and václav havel. then in 1978, a pole came along who was to change everything. karol wojtyła, a polish cardinal who had long opposed the communist system, became pope john paul ii. he probably did more to bring down the berlin wall than any other german. in 1981 - again in poland - solidarność was born, the model for freedom-seeking workers' movements all over the world, with lech wałęsa at the head. in 1984, another name that kept the world breathing for weeks and gave me sleepless nights: polish priest jerzy popiełuszko, a martyr of the catholic church and solidarność. in 1989 the czechs opened the door to the west to many east germans and the hungarians the fence. the name we all know him by is gyula horn. in all these years, however, there have been many fighters for freedom of expression and freedom of the press and martyrs in the ussr itself, to whom we germans also owe a great deal, such as andrei sakharov, after whom the european parliament has named its human rights prize, or sergei kovalyov, one of the co-founders of memorial. today in russia, not only memorial, but today in russia, freedom of speech and press and human rights are again in danger. the germans also know that none of this would have been possible without the steadfastness of ronald reagan, who called out from the brandenburg gate in 1985: 'mr gorbachev, open this gate!' and you know that it would not have been possible without a gorbachev who made that happen. or think of the western allied soldiers who protected us in berlin. we have a colleague from the group of the european people's party, geoffrey van orden, who was indeed a british officer in 1989. yes, the germans are happy about the fall of the wall, because they are united again. yes, the germans are proud that all this was possible peacefully and without bloodshed. but the germans are also grateful to those who made this possible in the first place. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, at the time of the worst fratricidal war in europe, the peloponnesian war, pericles spoke the following wisdom which is still valid today: the secret of happiness is freedom, but the secret of freedom is courage. and who knows this better than all the people who have been remembered here, who took to the streets in eastern europe: in 1953 in berlin, in 1956 in budapest, in 1968 in prague. we in the west have been fortunate to grow up in a freedom won by brave men and women who fought against fascism and nazism. our friends in eastern europe have risen up against the second great anti-human ideology that came from europe, communism. and i am grateful that hans-olaf henkel has also reminded us of those who fought against communism in the soviet union; i am thinking not only of andrei sakharov, but also of lev kopelev, yelena bonner and all the others. their actions were punished by internment, exile and banishment. the courage of these men is the courage that gives us the happiness of living together in freedom. the fall of the berlin wall was the result of an east german civil movement, but it was part of a european freedom movement. and the courage it took to stand up to communism was seen on june 4 of that year when a massacre was carried out in tiananmen square - what a name! - and was even officially welcomed by the communist leadership in east berlin! the chinese authorities' action against the peaceful student uprising in beijing was officially welcomed in east berlin! you can imagine what it meant for people in leipzig, rostock, dresden, berlin to hear such words. the fall of the wall, the opening of the brandenburg gate, the event and the building are therefore symbols that do not belong only to germans. they are symbols of freedom, they remind us to defend that freedom again and again, and they are symbols of hope for people who still have to live in oppression. yes, things can change for the better, yes, happiness and freedom can replace violence and walls. this symbol of hope is what we want to send out into the world from here. it is possible where oppression still exists today. the message of the fall of the wall, the message of the opening of the brandenburg gate is that there is reason for hope. don't give up, we're with you!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not ladies and gentlemen, it is also important to say, on the occasion of 9 november 1989, the anniversary of that day, what ultimately led to the division of europe, to the division of germany. there was a war that started with hitler germany, with fascist germany, and that cost millions of lives. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think we should think about that, too. i was born and raised in the gdr. for me, the gdr was a time of contradictions. it was an important time for me, and i am still concerned today with why the gdr, why state socialism failed. all the contradictions are important to me. i don't paint a black and white picture, no matter how much others may like to do so. for me, the courage of those who refused to let their dream of a free, united, just society be taken away is the model. the peaceful and yet powerful protests of leipzig, but also of november 4, 1989 in berlin on alexanderplatz: that was the way i saw the wall fall. without these protests, november 9th would not have been in this form. but it also includes the 17 january 1988, when people on the margins of the rosa luxemburg/karl liebknecht demonstration in berlin unrolled a banner that read: "freedom is always freedom of those who think differently" when the gdr regime, not accepting that there are other views and that this is part of life and a free society, arrested these demonstrators. this was a signal to many citizens - including myself - that the future of the gdr was in trouble and that it could not go on like this. (calling) i don't want to talk to you about who has understood what in their life. but there is not enough time to record the hopes and illusions with which many citizens of the gdr associated the fall of the wall and the opening of the border between the gdr and the frg - a border on which both camps, nato and the warsaw pact, faced each other with heavy weapons, a border which on the gdr side had a double function because it was directed inwards and prevented people, above all, from leaving their own country. but there is time to say this clearly: the 9th of november is no longer just a german fateful day. the most recent events, kristallnacht, the reichspogrom in 1938, and the fall of the berlin wall in 1989, have made 9 november a date of significance far beyond europe. for me, november 9th remains a day of remembrance and joy - of remembering the darkest chapter in german and european history, but also of joy that the fall of the berlin wall has revealed an incomparable contradiction: you cannot build a better society in which the freedom of all, the collective, is directed against the freedom of the individual. the same applies in reverse. we cannot build a better society, where social freedoms, social fundamental rights are being achieved, without democracy and personal freedoms. but november 9 was soon followed by the cry for freedom instead of socialism. this is as wrong as the idea that socialism would be possible without freedom. the turn and the fall of the wall were made possible primarily by the people who no longer wanted to accept that change was not possible. the cold war was not ended by the politicians. if it had been up to the rulers of nato and the warsaw pact, they would still be at odds in the struggle for power and influence. the recent clashes between nato and russia show how quickly old images are being brought up and old confrontations are being revived. political and economic structures are made by people. people can change them. just as the rulers of the gdr and other countries of state socialism were wrong to think that neither ox nor donkey could stop socialism in its tracks, so today many who hold political and economic power are wrong to think that there is no alternative to their policies, to think, for example, that the power of the financial markets is all-encompassing, to think that the debts of the banks can be continually imposed on the population. i would like to conclude by saying that the call 'tear down the walls' should also apply today. it should be our responsibility, a european responsibility, to tear down the walls around the european union so that everyone can live here with equal rights.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. as a german mep and a child of the periphery, i have never found it difficult, in the last 25 years, to rejoice on this day in november over what happened in germany 25 years ago, because for me, in my immediate environment, the result was that my freedom increased. my first trips to east germany as a west german, my later trips to poland and central europe - i don't want to try to explain what a happiness and what a great satisfaction this means for me to this day. germany has changed a lot since 1989 - and for the better. i am glad that many people from all over the world, especially many young europeans, have made berlin one of their cities of love, and that too was felt when you looked at what happened in berlin these days. "gratitude" has fallen out of favor as a vocabulary, and i can only emphasize that. because germany must be grateful that it was made possible for us, especially in the european union and in the tension with the east at that time, to be this united germany again. we have not only changed since then, our reputation has not only improved, we have also become insanely strong as germans, as germany. the fact that germany is again a hegemonic power is not something that everyone is happy about. i have been to southern europe often enough to understand the tensions, including the new tensions. germany must continue to use its new hegemonic strength gratefully and for the benefit of the whole european union. that there is any doubt about this, ladies and gentlemen, my german colleagues, is something we should also reflect on on a day like this. and the second thing that is also important is that in 2014, which is also 100 years after the start of the first world war, and the worst thing is that this year war has returned to europe, the euromaidan movement is the continuation of what the fall of the berlin wall still symbolizes. ladies and gentlemen, germany must work with the european union to ensure that this bloodshed in eastern ukraine is stopped. we must not allow russia today to try to question the results of 1990 and 1991. i have had the good fortune to meet mr gorbachev personally, and i have great respect for him. but i think he should not only preach reason in berlin, but he should provide reason in russia, in moscow. the minsk agreements must finally be respected, and that is also something that counts on this day.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
i am pleased to welcome six members of a delegation of high-ranking officials from the brazilian congress, led by the director-general of the chamber of deputies, mr sérgio sampaio contreiras de almeida, to the podium. ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the club.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 149 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. i would like to start by making the following suggestion. wednesday:i have the following to propose to you, in agreement with mr juncker, president of the commission: in the light of the ongoing debates and after today's meeting of the college of commissioners, mr juncker and i have agreed that i would suggest that mr juncker make a statement at the beginning of our meeting, followed by a round of group chairmen. i would ask you to put this item on the agenda as a first additional item. if you agree with this - i see no contradiction - then we could set the work programme as follows. in addition to this point, i must make one more statement: the debate on the council and commission statement on the fight against tax evasion will then be placed on the agenda after the election of the vice-president. i propose that the title of the joint debate on the amendment of protocol 31 to the eea agreement be changed to 'amendments to agreements with eea states and switzerland'. the joint debate will be accompanied by a debate on a commission statement on the position of the european union within the eu-switzerland joint committee on the amendment of the agreement on the coordination of social security systems. in the light of these debates, the sitting will be extended until 11.30 p.m. today. thursday:the hautala report on the request for waiver of the immunity of ana gomes will be included directly in the voting on thursday.
thank you, thank you. (the agenda is therefore adopted.)
the next item is the debate on a statement by the president of the commission (2014/2945 ((rsp)).
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, in view of the circumstances, in view of the questions, in view of the doubts which may have crossed some minds, i think it is only right that, without having been summoned by your parliament, i should appear before you this afternoon at the earliest possible parliamentary opportunity. i was prime minister of luxembourg, as you know, and i am president of the commission, as you know. i am not speaking as a former prime minister of the grand duchy, but as the president of the commission who was for a long time in his life prime minister of luxembourg. there are many things to say, but i would like to focus on the heart of the matter. the problem we are discussing concerns advance tax rulings, what in french is called tax rulings. the commission has confirmed on numerous occasions that advance tax rulings are in conformity with community law, provided that the same rules apply in the same circumstances to all undertakings without any discrimination. that is what the luxembourg tax law says and that is what the administrative practices of that country apply to. the tax law has always been respected and i am not aware of any illegal practices. but there has probably been, at least in my opinion, an excess of tax engineering in luxembourg, as in other countries. it is important to know that advance tax rulings exist, as you know, in 22 member states of the european union. there is therefore no luxembourg specificity. we are facing an almost ecumenical phenomenon in europe and, moreover, also beyond the borders of the european union. how is it possible that such over-interpretation can take place? this is possible because there is an interaction between national laws which differ, or even differ, in their nature and in their normative scope. the fact that there are divergent tax rules, the fact that they are applied in several countries of the european union, is nothing but the result of the logic of non-harmonisation of taxation or of insufficient taxation in europe. yes, we are faced with the consequences of non-harmonisation or insufficient tax harmonisation in europe. we - the commission, the council - have reacted to this lack of compatible rules. i myself - and there are many witnesses in this chamber - have always worked to promote tax harmonization whenever luxembourg or i myself have presided over the council of ministers. i have often said to you - and you will laugh today as you did then - that every time progress has been made in europe on tax harmonization, it has been under the luxembourg presidency. i would remind you that in 1991 we harmonized vat and excise rates. we have adopted a code of conduct against unfair tax competition, which has been applied and in many countries has led to important legislative changes, and so on, in the face of disparities in national tax standards. we discussed this problem in the college this morning. there is an urgent need to act, since many of our citizens do not understand the difference between the need to clean up our public finances and the need to tax companies and companies fairly, since the impression that emerges from this debate is that tax injustice is not sufficiently combated in europe. i made a commitment to you to act on that plan. i said that during the election campaign and during our debate, when not everyone was as enthusiastic about demanding greater tax harmonization. tax harmonization does not mean the end of tax competition: it aims to establish fairer rules between the different member states of the european union. we discussed this in the college this morning and i proposed to my colleagues what i had said to you when you gave me the honour of being elected president of the commission, namely that the commission's ambition is to do everything possible to ensure that europe has a common tax base in tax matters, since in many cases tax rulings can be made in advance because our common tax bases (gemeinsame bemessungsgrundlagen) are not in place. we will. the council has a proposal for a directive to this effect and we will do everything we can to encourage it to adopt this directive and to get it adopted as soon as possible. until then, commissioner moscovici will use all the instruments at his disposal today to achieve the same goal. we have recently adopted the first part of the parent-branch directive, which puts an end to another source of long-standing disparities and which is to abolish the architectural possibility that the different legal classification of so-called hybrid loans made available to tax administrations. this directive will enter into force on 1 january 2015 and will eliminate entire sections of the constructibility of advance tax rulings. all the member states of the european union have now abolished bank secrecy. this was not the case several years ago. i proposed to the commission this morning, and the college unanimously accepted it, that we should now, after a review of the existing arrangements and following an initiative by commissioner moscovici, proceed to an automatic exchange of information on advance rulings. commissioner moscovici and i will be proposing, starting tomorrow in australia, to extend the principle of automatic exchange of advance decision information to the whole of the g20. among the priorities i mentioned before you was our ambition, which was and remains, to fight effectively against tax fraud and tax evasion. there are a number of investigations which have been launched by the commission in respect of various member states, including the country i know best. i do not see and do not understand the comments on this, and i do not understand why anyone would try to discover a conflict of interest for the president of the commission when it comes to examining these investigations within the commission. the commissioner responsible for competition has a great deal of autonomy and i do not intend to interfere in her decision-making process. if i did that - even though i have no intention of doing so - i would lose all authority in the commission. if a commissioner intervened in a state matter in a violent, unreasonable, thoughtless way in a decision of this kind, the commission could no longer function on this point. the commissioner for competition is free to act and to move about freely. i do not understand why i read, and sometimes even hear, that this is a juncker-versus-juncker case. has there been any talk of a timmermans v timmermans case because the netherlands is being investigated? will we be talking about moscovici v. moscovici tomorrow when france is the subject of a commission inquiry? you'll be seeing commissioner moscovici in the fullness of his talents shortly. i repeat that the commission will do its job. there is an investigation directed against the country i know best, launched with my agreement by the previous commission. president barroso asked me, as did joaquín almunia, whether i would prefer to wait for the new commission to come in. i said, "do what you have to do". and that's what they did. we want to act on all these points. we will act decisively and with ambition. i have a duty of abstention in relation to investigations against the country i know best, but i also have a duty of action, which is to advance taxation and tax harmonization in europe. i'll do it for you. but to do that, i need your trust. without your trust, nothing is possible.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, we are certainly discussing an important issue here today, one that is moving the citizens. the citizens pay taxes, our small and mediumsized enterprises pay taxes and we read in the newspapers that large companies sometimes evade their tax obligations. it's a big question of justice, and that's why it's important to discuss it here today. but, ladies and gentlemen, as i reflect on the dust of the last few days, i ask myself: have we all been surprised by a new topic? ladies and gentlemen, we have already made a decision in principle before the european elections in the european parliament on how we are going to deal with tax justice in europe. the commission already took decisions on this in 2012. so we are not discussing a new topic that has suddenly appeared. some clarifications are necessary. firstly, is this a luxembourg case? of course, this is also a luxembourg case, which must be examined. but this is not just a luxembourg case. we have a long tradition in belgium that the rich settle better in belgium because there are better tax rates. the netherlands is known for its attractiveness for foundations. i come from the austrian border region of germany and i also know how many of our top earners are moving to austria. it is not, ladies and gentlemen, something which concerns only luxembourg. the second point i would like to make is: is there a breach of the law? ladies and gentlemen, under the treaty of lisbon - and this is precisely the side that is strongly in favour of the nation states here in parliament - we will fight to ensure that taxation remains national. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's what's behind it! this is not a breach of the law in the european union! the third point to be clarified is the question of procedure. i am grateful to jean-claude juncker for making it clear today that he will withdraw from the proceedings. he released it and said, "of course the commission has to investigate". but he'll back off. and yesterday, in the econ committee, mrs vestager confirmed that there had not even been a conversation between her and jean-claude juncker. it will conduct an independent inquiry, and this will be done with the blessing of jean-claude juncker. these clarifications are necessary. ladies and gentlemen, we are now coming to the political part of the debate, the question of the attempt to undermine the integrity and also the credibility of jean-claude juncker. ladies and gentlemen, four days before we vote on jean-claude juncker in the european parliament, the financial times published a very long article on this very subject. so it's not new. and although this article was in the newspapers, i voted with full conviction for jean-claude juncker because i trust him to solve the problems that are on the table. i would like to say on behalf of my whole group that we trust jean claude juncker to tackle and solve the issues on the table for the citizens of europe. the fifth thing i want to make clear is: do you know what annoys me the most about this whole discussion? we must give the public the impression that the european level has failed on this issue. we are again playing the ball between parliament and the commission. who hasn't gotten the point? the fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that it is the member states that are failing. the council is not present at this debate. the member states are failing. how long did it take the finance ministers to finally get a grip on tax evasion by private individuals, and now we have the automatic exchange of data? it took decades! billions of taxpayers' money were misappropriated because member states were unable to deliver. i hope we can do it faster this time, that we can get into the pot and that we can move forward and take out the tax evaders and stop the initiative accordingly. it is the member states that are at fault, not the european level! we would have been active, and we have been active. mr president, i would like to conclude by saying: the future is important. how do we solve this? and that is where jean-claude juncker made the right points: we need transparency in the rulings, as has been suggested. we need initiatives to standardize the basis of assessment, and we need global initiatives at the g20. we are all in favour of jean-claude juncker.
ladies and gentlemen, there are no blue cards in this debate. that's why i won't let them in.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. mr juncker, you are making it very difficult for us and for me personally, because i have not the slightest desire to intervene in any way in the dispute between the german government and you, for example. i do not like the hype that was felt in some media - not in all - in the federal republic of germany. i don't like it. but i think that the path you have now proposed, which is essentially based on two axes or two pillars - namely, to say that i am speaking here as president of the commission and not as a former prime minister of luxembourg or a former minister of finance - is very difficult to follow. because you are here as a person, you are not a split person, you are here for us as the president of the commission. you have started with a biography, and just as i, for example, here in the room today, have to justify my biography constantly, no matter what options, you must justify it and explain, make it understandable, why you have used all the possibilities, certainly from a legal point of view, to ultimately take advantage of tax benefits for your own country. if this is nothing other than putting national interests first within the internal market of the european union, bringing companies to luxembourg, diverting much-needed tax money to public budgets, if this is not a position that says, in the end, i don't care or not only you, but many others, it has been tolerated by many governments, it is not only your problem that we have less money to fight poverty and social exclusion, create jobs, do many other things that are urgently needed and what citizens expect, but in the end, it is looking at getting as many people as possible to come to their own country, then i really don't know what we are talking about anymore! i expect you to take a stand on that very point! secondly, i would like to know whether it is true, if you can confirm, that the commission's cooperation with luxembourg has improved since you ceased to be prime minister. that was the answer we heard yesterday.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. that is precisely what the rules of procedure are about, mr schulz. i would like to know on what grounds you simply do not take note of the motions for resolutions and, secondly, on what grounds you do not reply to the motions for resolutions. is this a right of members of parliament, or does this right have any meaning? (applause from the centre)
- i'm not sure. reasons for requests for rules of procedure must be stated in the relevant rule. the previous point of order to which you seem to have referred was not based on any basis, was not substantiated, and was not referred to any article of the rules of procedure, but merely stated that mr verhofstadt had addressed an absent member. that is permitted under our rules of procedure. that's why i didn't have to intervene. i do not know what my breach of the rules of procedure is. if a group leader finds that a member is not present, it may be more the problem of the absent member.
thank you, thank you. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
in writing. it is not unknown that tax saving models exist in luxembourg, as in many other member states, such as belgium, the netherlands, the united kingdom and austria. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. unfair tax competition must be combated, however, because tax injustices are unacceptable and cannot be tolerated. we have been fighting for this for years in parliament, but we have been defeated by the resistance of the member states. the commissioner responsible for competition must investigate the possibility of unfair competition on a case-by-case basis. i am very confident in this because mrs margrethe vestager comes from a small country free of corruption and i am sure that she will do the job properly. but we must also move forward in a timely manner with common taxation standards at eu level. a common tax base, which does not yet exist, would be a first step in this direction. the overriding objective must be to restore tax justice. the member states continue to play a prominent role in this respect.
the next item on the agenda is the election of a vice-president of the european parliament, pursuant to rules 15, 17 and 20 of our rules of procedure. i have received the following nominations: mr fabio massimo castaldo and mr ioan mircea paşcu. the candidates have informed me that they have been proposed with their consent. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. please, sir!
- i'm not going to. i take it you're not running for office. thank you very much. in democracy, the fact is that competition leads to democracy. in that sense, it might not have been a bad thing if you had kept your candidacy. i have a nomination now, and that is mr paşcu's nomination. mr paşcu informed me that he had been proposed with his consent. since there is only one vacant seat and one candidate, i suggest that you vote by telephone. i therefore ask whether there are any other candidates who are now being spontaneously put forward. that's not the case. (the call for electronic voting is requested. ) now that electronic voting has been requested, we must be very precise. you can vote yes or no, which is the same as abstaining. that is the rule laid down in our rules of procedure. (the president declared the vote to be taken.) this is followed by a test call with a fictitious name.)
ladies and gentlemen, the common practice in this house has been to use this electronic voting method for the re-election of vice-presidents. the procedure is also relatively simple: we have a candidate. if you want to vote for this candidate, press the "yes" button. the vote is secret because the blue button lights up no matter which button you press. if you do not wish to take part in the vote, this will also be apparent in a ballot, because you will not appear on the list of members who will take part. that's not an argument. the common practice has been exactly that, and that is why i think we should also move towards this procedure.
no, we cannot allow any more debate on the rules of procedure at this time. all the vice-presidents of this house - all of them - have been elected in this way, and you have all agreed to it. no vice-president has ever been elected by any other means than electronic voting. if you do not take part in a vote by ballot paper, this will also be visible in the register because all those who have taken part will be published in the minutes and those who have not taken part will not be recorded in the minutes. so it's obvious to everyone that you didn't participate. that's not an argument. so the common practice up to now has been that we vote electronically. if you want it different, we can do it different. then the house has to decide for itself what it wants. we are happy to vote by ballot. i have no such request.
mr. sulik, that's not true. the vice-presidential election is a list election. you can elect individual members. you are not voting yes, no or abstention, but you are voting from a list of fourteen or fifteen proposed candidates for whom you want to vote. and that is to vote yes, not no. that's the way it is. those who wish to agree agree. otherwise, your vote counts as an abstention. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) (the president declared the result of the vote) the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. i would like to congratulate you on your achievements.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on combating tax evasion (2014/2944 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you all know, the commission has played a key role in recent years in the efforts made within the european union and globally to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. i want to assure you that we will continue to lead the way and to be the voice, both vocally and in the sense of showing a way forward in this matter. first, a few words about the global dimension. this weekend, with president juncker, i will be attending the g20 summit in brisbane, because tax evasion is increasingly a global phenomenon and as such, cooperation with the heads of state of the rest of the world is essential if we are to provide an effective response to this problem. in brisbane, in particular, important work will continue on the erosion of profit transfer tax bases. this is called the beps initiative and is a central element of the work programme. the commission has so far been very active in promoting ambitious new standards. it was not afraid to make proposals and to be a standard in this struggle. this commitment is now bearing fruit. we will commit to ensuring that work on beps is completed as planned in 2015 to achieve a fairer global tax environment. similarly, the commission's strong commitment to greater tax transparency at the global level has begun to bear fruit. this means that we have contributed with determination and efficiency to the oecd's work on a new global framework for the automatic exchange of information, which will ensure an unprecedented level of openness and cooperation between tax authorities worldwide. i now turn to the community dimension itself. in parallel, the commission has also been raising the bar for good tax governance in europe. following the 2012 action plan it rolled out a series of legislative proposals and political initiatives to enhance tax transparency and to tackle aggressive tax planning. in terms of transparency, last month the council agreed on the commission's 2013 proposal to abolish bank secrecy and to apply the global standard for automatic exchange of information from 2016. this was a major achievement in a remarkably short time frame, particularly taking into account the unanimity rule, which we all know is a problem. in addition, negotiations are well under way with our five close european neighbours: andorra, lichtenstein, monaco, san marino and switzerland. what for? to ensure that the automatic exchange of information is cemented in our bilateral relationship with them. in terms of creating fair competition, the commission's initiatives against aggressive tax planning are also taking root. member states have agreed to propose changes to the parent-subsidiary directive which will close loopholes and block a common form of tax avoidance. i am investing heavily in the ongoing negotiations on reinforced anti-abuse provisions in order to get to an agreement by the end of the year this was not totally reached in the last ecofin council, but i am optimistic that we will move on. this work runs alongside the ongoing cases, steered by my colleague margrethe vestager, which also have fair tax competition as their goal. she appeared yesterday before the committee on economic and monetary affairs and was able to provide all the necessary details on this issue. a few words about that. in any event, as you may already know, the commission is currently looking into the practice of tax rulings by member states that could favour some specific companies. the commission is in close cooperation with the authorities of the member states concerned to proceed in a constructive and cooperative manner in this area. we have not seen all the information published yesterday. we have at this stage not yet formed an opinion about it as a possible formal follow-up by the commission. on a more general note, commissioner vestager's services have asked for information from various countries and she will be vigilant to enforce state aid control in a fair and justified manner. for the future, and beyond this, it is clear that we need to take a more systematic approach to the problem of corporate tax avoidance. we need to look at the root causes and consider long-lasting remedies. this includes digging into the question of how to ensure more appropriate taxation for the modern and digital economy. with this in mind, and in line with the mandate given to me by president juncker, i will give high priority to advancing the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) proposal. this proposal is, as you all know, not a mere technical one, far from it. it is mainly political. the ccctb could fundamentally change the corporate tax environment in europe, ensuring a closer link between taxation and economic activity and shutting off major channels of avoidance. it must therefore be considered as a key element in our work to secure fairer taxation. for this reason the ccctb will remain an important political file for me and for this commission, and we discussed that this morning in the college alongside the proposal which was made here by president juncker. the commission's recommendation to the member states on how to crack down on tax havens is also still on the table. we should explore how this could be taken forward and fully implemented. finally, as you know, the commission will not hesitate to complement our toolbox with further initiatives if needed. in this context, we decided this morning it was discussed a few minutes ago to further enhance tax transparency, including through more information exchange, and enhance transparency on tax rulings. madam president, i conclude by saying that the commission's commitment to combating tax fraud and tax evasion is not new and has never been called into question. this commitment is stronger than ever. economic efficiency, fair competition and social justice are three principles underlying the fight against tax evasion. these are the principles which, for me - in my task - and for the commission as a whole, are and will be at the heart of our action. this is why the commission's work to combat tax fraud and tax evasion will continue with ambition and determination during this mandate. however, it should be stressed that this is not a way of getting rid of the problem, but a reality. this has two implications. firstly, while the commission may propose any initiative in the field of the fight against tax evasion, only the member states are ultimately entitled to vote and give their consent. awareness and willingness on their part to act in this direction is therefore essential. on the other hand, because of the unanimity rule - which i said a few minutes ago was if not a problem, at least a difficulty - the acceptance of the member states may take longer than would be appropriate, or i do not wish it to happen - it may never happen. in this respect, the role of public opinion, national parliaments and this european parliament is absolutely crucial in order to speed things up. that is the spirit in which i intend to work closely with this european parliament, your parliament, in the years ahead, to achieve our common objectives in this area which will be, believe me, a top priority for this commission.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the fight against tax evasion is of course also an extremely important issue for the epp group, but one which should be tackled with effective solutions. the subject as such, i think, speaks for itself. it is not necessary to go through the past of the president of the commission or to make personal attacks on individuals. the commission has already started important work over the past year, including these last few months, and we in the epp group would like to build on this work. the commission has adopted an action plan and useful recommendations which need to be implemented. in addition, important progress has been made in the automatic exchange of information, both at european and global level. and the exchange of information is now being expanded. the oecd standard is becoming an essential tool to make tax evasion increasingly unattractive internationally. however, it must be said that there is still much to be done. we know that the subjects of taxation are horizontal. they therefore also need a sound analysis of the situation in the member states of the european union. i believe that the committee on economic and monetary affairs is the right place to work out and show what we are going to do. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we are here for an integrated approach which can then be developed by the experts in the committee. i think that quick shots, mood-setting really is out of place. in the end, they do not do justice to the great importance of the subject. we want serious, effective solutions and, of course, a comprehensive exchange. and we support the commission's independent competition law investigations. because the honest taxpayer, whether a private citizen or a businessman, must receive the positive evaluation he deserves. what europe can do in this area in terms of preparatory work and coordination, or what it is legally allowed to do, must be put into practice in the end.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we have the fight against tax evasion on the agenda. but the president of the commission left the chamber when this item was raised. this is unfortunate, because today you cannot talk about tax avoidance without mentioning the name of jean-claude juncker. the liberal group chairman, who is also conspicuous by his absence, having just criticised another group chairman for this, has rightly said that dark clouds are hanging over the european commission and the european union. it can also be said more forcefully, because these are days of shame that we are experiencing here, days of shame for a commission that is trying to fight tax evasion, and at the same time has to work under a president who is facing exactly these accusations that his country has enriched itself at the expense of other countries in tax revenues, that his country has been beating other countries for the tax revenues that are actually theirs. that a president is against the basic values of our society ...
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. what we've seen in this discussion is a triple form of distraction. the first is to create a diversion, as if luxembourg were a normal country, which, like other countries, avoids taxation in the normal way. no, luxembourg is an extreme case, because in many ways everything is combined: corporate taxes, taxes on gasoline, taxes on internet trade, favouring the fund industry. luxembourg is not a normal country, it is an extreme case. but it is also a distraction in this respect to try to put the blame for mr juncker's tax evasion problems on him personally. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is not part of a social market economy. it is therefore right that we do not talk about this now and whine about whether mr juncker alone is morally responsible, but that we should act now. and that's where the action is. i would like to know from you, commissioner, whether your measures are now effective or not. so far you have said common assessment basis and referred to the commission proposal. the proposal is not binding, but sets up a 29th regime. this parliament's proposal is to make the proposals binding. will they be binding, yes or no? if we have a binding tax base, then the question is: are there common minimum tax rates? are you going to propose minimum tax rates now? finally, mr juncker did not respond to mr pittella's proposal that we should finally have transparency on taxation in the various countries. will there now be a proposal for all sectors that will differ by country, who pays how much tax in which country, or not? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. these are the deeds by which we measure you.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is not just luxembourg. the fact that tax saving models exist via luxembourg is nothing new. the scale of the revelations is absolutely outrageous. the ordinary citizen, the simple family who pays taxes, the medium-sized entrepreneur, the master craftsman who pays taxes, and at the same time the large international corporation which pays no taxes: this is not acceptable! the social market economy is open to competition for locations, but it must not be ruinous. that is why we, the liberal and democratic group, here in the european parliament, propose that a special committee be set up to analyse more closely what is lacking, where the tax loopholes are. the member states have been blocking for many years in the council the existence of a european union framework legislation to prevent such tax avoidance strategies.
i have to say, madam president, the great mr juncker has been hiding behind the petty officials in luxembourg and he has said that everything has been legal. that's the scandal. tell him to explain that to the people up there who have to work hard. we are losing a trillion euros a year through tax evasion and avoidance, while mr juncker is telling these people to save. imagine that a thief robs you. then he rings the doorbell and asks to take your furniture, and the police tell you it's legal. then there are three possibilities: the thief is crazy, the laws are criminal, or you live in the eu. we are calling for new eu treaties with minimum corporate taxes, country-by-country reporting, withholding tax. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's internal market is not distorted. we rejected the godfather of the tax cartel as president. the commission shall take a joint decision on the procedure against luxembourg. mrs vestager confirmed to me yesterday that cooperation has improved since mr juncker left. that is why we say: the juncker system can only be ended without mr juncker, not with him.
i have to say, madam president, if you listen to this for a while, you might say this is a hypocritical prime time! jean-claude juncker is being blamed for a practice which is common in 22 countries. and when i see that the left there, here the german communist the sed spent 6 billion d-mark after german unity in switzerland to save taxes , or when i hear the greek colleagues of all the political groups only in december 2013 the tax exemption for greek shipowners was abolished , this is a false debate here! that does not mean that we do not have to talk seriously about the subject: whether it is the tax exemptions for renault in france or the hundred cases in belgium or the licence exemption in the netherlands or the low tax rates in ireland - it must be discussed, even if it is a national competence. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. the most important point is greater transparency, and this is where you, as the european commission, have the opportunity to take initiatives which, despite their legal responsibilities, force member states to be more transparent and to take responsibility for this. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i am absolutely in favour of introducing minimum rates, introducing a margin. i am, however, opposed to the proposal by mrs berès to abolish tax competition. we would then be at the french tax level, with the state holding between 56 and 58%. that can't be the target! i therefore believe that this is possible for the temporary development of jobs and investment, but not as a permanent tax model of the state. we must therefore find a way to bring about greater honesty and transparency.
president of the european court of auditors. - madam president, honourable members, vice-president georgieva, it is an honour to present the court’s annual report on the 2013 financial year to this plenary session of the european parliament. this is an important moment of change for europe. a new european commission is facing many important challenges. one of those challenges is to improve the management of the european union budget. at the start of this new spending period, the court’s annual report says that the european union’s financial management is not yet good enough overall. the european union financial managers are responsible not only for spending the money; they must also ensure that expenditure complies with the rules and gets results. as regards spending the european union budget, over eur 148 billion worth of payments were made from the european union budget in 2013. the court concludes that those transactions were properly accounted for in 2013, which means that we have now signed off a clean audit opinion on the reliability of the accounts every year since 2007. but despite the high level of payments, which were almost 99% of the maximum available for the year, outstanding financial obligations rose by a further eur 9 billion up to eur 322 billion during 2013. this is a sign of the growing pressure on european union cash-flows. the commission should prepare appropriate cash-flow forecasts to anticipate potential funding shortages for european union programmes. at the same time, it should also take care to ensure that funding from the european union budget reflects real cash-flow needs. for example, less than half of the european union funds paid into financial engineering instruments since 2007 had actually reached financial beneficiaries by the end of 2013. the european union budget gets spent but too many payments are still not in compliance with the rules. the estimated error rates for payments has been significantly above the ‘materiality threshold’ of 2% for all the years the court has audited the european union accounts. in 2013 the court estimates that the overall error rate is 4.7% compared to 4.8% in 2012. all areas of expenditure were affected by a material level of error. the only exception was the eur 10.6 billion the european union spent on its own administration. the court estimates that the error rate is higher in shared management by the commission and member states than in other areas mostly directed by the commission. furthermore, although corrective action by the commission and national authorities helps to keep the overall rate down, significantly more could have been done to prevent errors in the first place. for example, the court’s error rate in rural development could, in principle, have been reduced from 6.7% to 2.0%, if national authorities had used all the information they had at their disposal before submitting claims to the commission for reimbursement. the main sources of error that national authorities should watch out for are ineligible claims, serious breaches of public procurement, and incorrect declarations of agricultural areas. in the court’s view, the commission and member states authorities should concentrate more on preventing such errors that arise for these reasons not least because they put at risk the efficiency and effectiveness of the european union’s spending. during the 2007-2013 programming period, the managers of the european funds focused primarily on spending the money available, secondly on complying with the rules, and only then – and to a limited extent – did they focus on achieving results. this needs to change. our annual report provides many examples, drawn from among the 19 special reports the court adopted in 2013, to show how better focus on results could enhance performance. in this context, the court welcomes commission initiatives to move from a culture of spending towards a culture of performance. in the court’s view, that culture of performance will require first a genuine commitment at european union and national level to getting the best results possible with limited resources; second, that suitable targets for the results to be achieved as well as reliable information on progress towards achieving them are set; and third, and most important, there needs to be the right incentives to reward good performance and to sanction poor performance. up to now the european union financial managers have primarily been under pressure to spend the money or risk losing it. and lastly, it will also be essential to make the overall results achieved with the european union money more visible. in particular, the european commission should improve the coverage given in its annual evaluation report to the european added value of the european union budget and to progress made towards achieving the europe 2020 targets. european union financial management improvement is not choosing between spending the money, complying with the rules, and getting results. it is about managing to do all three at once and making the european union budget more manageable by clear rules, clear objectives and simple arrangements for spending the money. as i hope the court’s 2013 annual report shows, our institution is fully committed to assisting this parliament and the other three quarters to achieve valuable results for the european citizens.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i would like to start by reiterating in this plenary our appreciation for the comprehensive report the court has presented and for its constructive recommendations. the court identified an error rate for 2013 of most likely 4.7%. this is still quite a way away from the 2% materiality threshold that we are aspiring for, but it is a notch lower than last year, where it was 4.8%, and most importantly, what we see is that the previous years’ trend of the rate increasing has been stopped, during a year of a record high eur 148 billion of commission-supported implemented programmes. i truly hope that we are seeing the result of efforts that my colleagues in the commission have been putting in over the last few years, taking advantage of the recommendations of the court. but if i am to say what to me is the most important message, it is that we must persevere, we must continue this work. secondly, we are very comforted by the fact that we can reassure our citizens and our staff that the accounts are free from material mis-statements. this is the seventh year in a row, and this is, i believe, a very positive outcome of the work we have been doing, that the error rate on what we manage in the commission is below the 2% threshold, and that commitments in all areas of expenditure receive a positive opinion. as in the past, the court leads us to focus on areas of shared management – cohesion policy and agriculture in particular – and as in the past we are reminded in the report that there is a factor that is obviously impacting errors, namely very complicated rules in public procurement, in state aid, in eligibility. this presents a risk that the court directs us to address. we are mindful that we have to intensify efforts with member states; that this is where the biggest bang for the buck will come if we want to achieve better results in future years. and we also want to remind honourable members that we have a particular problem still to address, and it is the multiannual nature of our programmes versus the annual nature of the court’s reports; that very often we face a situation where corrections are made in future years, but are not captured in the year the report is presented. just to illustrate this difference between the annual error rate and the residual error rate: over the last five years the amount of financial corrections was on average 2.2% of all payments. in other words, this would have reduced the error rate. but i do not want to defend where we are, because what is most important is to look forward, and looking forward i want to make two substantive points. one is that for the 2014-2020 programing period we have introduced new rules around three main principles: simplification, simplified cost options to reduce administrative burden and, as the court highlights, to reduce risks of errors; ownership, to foster responsibility in shared management among national authorities – and also we want to promote political ownership at the highest national level; and incentives: net financial correction is a very strong incentive for proper control systems, and this is where we want to be for the next programming period. my second substantive point is to very much embrace the recommendation of the court to focus on performance and to build and nurture a genuine culture of performance. this would be at the centre of my attention; this would be at the centre of my actions. i intend to work very closely with my colleagues in the commission, with member states and all other financial actors in this direction. i also would like to assure parliament that we are taking very seriously and taking to heart the recommendation you have made to us to set up an interinstitutional working group on performance. virtually in the next few weeks we will pursue the setting up of this group. we have no time to waste! our citizens expect us to demonstrate that we take good care of the money they give us to serve their interests. from me, president caldeira, a very firm commitment for a partnership with the court, walking on two legs – compliance and performance – to achieve results.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the most shocking finding of the court of auditors - among others in this thick report - is what you said, that results - what do we get out of the money - that these results come third, that spending money is the most important thing, and, commissioner, if you can tackle this, you are my hero! but i fear that things will continue as they are, because i have heard the other thing ten times now, namely that everything will be different with the next mfr. why do we not know what we have achieved with european money, what results we have? youth unemployment: what have we achieved in tackling it? roma, integration: what have we achieved? instead, we beat ourselves up because we can't talk about results enough to get around error rates. but it's also important because it shows us how administration works. and i have a lot of questions: why is the error rate of the court of auditors in the regional funds so significantly different from that of the directorate-general for regional policy: 2.8% and 6.9%? or in rural development: the court of auditors says 6.7%, the directorate-general for agriculture 5.19%. is this because the directorates-general are quick to shield the funds from criticism? are we dealing with an inherent conflict of interest here? you've got a lot of work to do, commissioner. and i have a few other questions, too. financial instruments: why do only 47% of funds reach the final beneficiaries? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and that's gonna be your problem soon, because that's when the statute of limitations expires. i would like to mention the third point, namely the incorrect information provided by the authorities in the member states. we see in the annual activity reports of the directors-general extensive corrections by the commission, and therefore the question arises whether we need sanctions for misreporting, for misreporting by the member states, as in the eurozone.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to thank the court of auditors for this report. we have seen that the error rate in the implementation of the eu budget has fallen slightly this year, compared to 4.8% in the run-up. but is the preceding year really the only reference point to be considered? i don't think he did. anyone familiar with european union funding knows that the expenditure curves vary over the course of a programme period. this means that there are fewer payments at the beginning and the more projects are approved by the member states, the more payments increase. it is therefore worthwhile to take a look at where we actually stood seven years ago, at the same point in the 2000-2006 funding period. if you do that, you find that the error rate was at least 7.3 percent back then. in other words: the error rate is today, at the end of the 2007-2014 funding period, 2.6 percentage points or more than one third lower than it was seven years ago. i think this is a political success. what can be done to further reduce the error rate? the key here lies with the member states. i quote from the court of auditors' report because it is obvious that some colleagues need to hear the original document: in a significant number of erroneous transactions, the authorities in the member states had sufficient information to detect and correct the error. we could have reduced the error rate in rural development to 2%.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i know you are a very respectable colleague. that's why i'm here, because i think you made a mistake. you claimed seven billion euros were missing. i'll read you the court's opinion. the court says: the error rate estimated by the court is not a measure of fraud, inefficiency or waste. it is an estimate of the funds which should not have been paid. in light of this, would you kindly retract your statement that seven billion euros disappeared?
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i want to start by expressing my appreciation for the comments that have been made. there were very clear messages from the rapporteur – the three points that we heard – and also from many who have expressed their desire to see better financial management for the sake of delivering to our people. let me make three points: one: what exactly is an error rate? this is what it is: errors. some of this may be mismanagement of funds, some of it may be misrecording, and a small percentage – to be exact 0.2% – is actually money stolen. of course, 0.2% is 0.2% too much, but we must not confuse the errors that are genuine clerical errors with mismanagement and, even worse, fraud. we have to be clear in our minds what we are talking about, because if we do not define the problem accurately, we will not be able to solve it. my second point is: what are we doing about it? for the majority of errors that are exactly that – errors – we are relentlessly investing with member states in the training of people who deal with european money. we find this to be a task that deserves even more attention, because if we have people who understand and apply the rules, then the error rate goes down – and we have plenty of evidence that well implemented training programmes lead to a reduction of error rates – then people leave and the error rate jumps up, so this human factor is very important. we are also providing strong incentives in the new programming period: positive incentives – 6% of the money set aside to reward good performance; and negative incentives – more severe clawing-back of funds when there is inappropriate management of eu money. we are doing a lot, and we are keen to do more in simplification of rules. we now have eligibility rules harmonised across different areas, but i can tell you that yesterday i met with my fellow commissioners who are colleagues in spending areas, to discuss how we can take this forward because it is really important, as the court told us. my third point is: do we take this report seriously? yes. and the court told us in special report no 19/2013 that the commission adequately follows up the court’s recommendations and that the court’s review of a sample of recommendations showed that these, being implemented by the commission, have improved financial management. we too intend to take this report very seriously, especially in this shift we need to make from a strictly compliance-based culture to combining efforts in compliance with very strong emphasis on performance. i will be here next year and the year after, and i hope that we will have results to report. more than hope; i pledge there will be results to report.
president of the court of auditors. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking you for the kind words you have addressed to the court of auditors in regard to its work. i think everyone who worked on these reports thanks you for it. i would like to address some of the points that were raised in this debate, not because the court was directly asked to answer, but because i think we need to have a clear idea of what needs to be done. in our report we clearly state that we need to change this culture of using the funds because they are available and because otherwise we risk losing them, not having the possibility to use them. we need to make the systems work more effectively. we have shown in our report that the member states have information to prevent those claiming reimbursement of funds from the european union funds from making those claims. that is the primary concern. if you want the member states' authorities and the european commission to do their job fully, they need to increase this preventive action. of course errors may occur, it is human, but when they occur they have to be corrected. in our report we show the likely impact of the corrective action taken both by the european commission and the member states. at the end in some areas, even this year, in some operations we have looked at, it was possible to bring down the level of the error very close to the materiality threshold. we do not need to change the rules again; the rules have been changed for this new financial framework. we need now to implement them. we called for a change in the rules; the rules have been changed, so now is the time for action. the member states and the european commission had to take clear action here, by simplifying the rules, by stating clear objectives, by devising and designing programmes for investment that are results-oriented; looking for real impacts on the lives of european citizens, but indeed having the right incentives: those that are performing better should have the right incentive for that. madam president, i would like to conclude by reiterating that this new emphasis on management oriented towards results clearly visible to the citizens must be the key to the future. this is the key to a prosperous economy, creating jobs and protecting the environment. i believe that we are all, including those in this house, moving in that direction. the court considers that it is up to the commission and the member states to emphasise this culture of results-oriented approach when they are required to spend european union money.
in writing. the report of the european court of auditors reveals a veritable scandal. even the otherwise very reserved frankfurter allgemeine zeitung felt that "a considerable amount of slurring or trickery" was involved. if the eu, which is the ultimate moral authority vis-à-vis other countries, businesses and local authorities, is not using the 7.4 billion euro appropriately, then the european parliament should at least intervene. 20 times in a row the court of auditors of the eu and the member states refuse to grant the will, and nothing happens! imagine what would happen if a company with an annual turnover of 148.5 billion euros were denied the auditor's certificate twice in a row! the entire board of directors and executive board would be sent into the desert by the shareholders. who else but us parliamentarians is the general assembly here! what are we gonna do? i didn't say anything. as a german and a resident of berlin, i am particularly concerned: as an example of a particularly serious infringement, award decisions at a german airport were cited. guess which one.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. mr nuttall, are you not ashamed of using your internal policy of presenting false economic figures and financial figures which are obligatory to be paid here for internal propaganda in your country in the face of a discussion on a peace process in which the european union has also played a good role in the individual decades? i believe that even using something like this for a peace process to make internal british campaigning has not done justice to the important question of peace. it's just cheap, my lord!
member of the commission on behalf of the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - madam president, honourable members, i have followed closely the latest events in the exclusive economic zone of cyprus and their implications for the region more widely. we are fully aware of your concerns, not least through the letters and parliamentary questions on this issue received from several of you. the first thing i want to underline today is that the eu’s position on this is very clear. it has been set out in past council conclusions, in the commission’s latest enlargement progress report for turkey, and most recently by the european council in october. still, it is important to repeat this position. the eu stands firmly by the sovereign rights of its member states to enter into bilateral agreements and to explore and exploit their natural resources when in line with the eu acquis and international law, including the un convention on the law of the sea. let me underline that the eu urges the avoidance of any kind of threat, source of friction or provocative action that could damage good neighbourly relations and the peaceful settlements of disputes. what do we need to do now? we expect turkey to respect cyprus’s sovereign rights over its exclusive economic zone, to show restraint and to avoid any more statements or actions that could cause more friction. it is very important that tension is decreased to the benefit of all parties. at the same time we hope that the exploration and eventual exploitation of cyprus’s natural resources can continue and the benefits can be shared by all cypriots. but what our discussion today shows most of all is the need for a rapid, comprehensive settlement on cyprus between the greek cypriot and turkish cypriot communities. in fact, in my opinion, that need has never been more pressing. let me take this opportunity to encourage strongly all relevant stakeholders to contribute to a positive climate conducive to a cyprus settlement to the benefit of all, because the division has gone on for too long, and because a settlement would open up the fullest range of options for exploiting hydrocarbon resources in the most economically advantageous way and for the benefit of all cypriots. the leaders of the two cypriot communities showed courage and vision in agreeing the joint declaration of 11 february, to relaunch settlement talks. in september they committed to accelerating the pace of the talks. so now i urge both community leaders to find a way back to the negotiating table and to resume substantial structured negotiations at the earliest opportunity, paving the way to a fair, comprehensive and viable cyprus settlement to the benefit of all. the un is urging this too. we have a strong political figure in mr barth eide, the un special adviser on cyprus, who is ready to help the parties bridge differences, get back into negotiations and make real progress. the eu strongly supports his activities. let me say a word about turkey more generally too. as a country with a stated european perspective, turkey must respect the highest possible democratic standards and practices without reservation. we will hold it properly to account on this. to do just that we need to have an even closer and deeper relationship with turkey. this is one of the key plans for me as commissioner. this also means developing the relationship more widely: more foreign policy dialogue and cooperation; acting more closely together on the great shared challenges in our region; a close and more productive economic relationship for the benefit of our citizens, especially through the deepening of our customs union; and further progress on the issues of visa and migration. i want to do more to develop a robust eu relationship with turkey in our interest and to our mutual benefit. let me assure you again that this issue is high on my agenda, that i am following it closely and that i understand your concerns. today in ankara the eeas and commission’s most senior official level political dialogue with turkey is taking place. this issue is firmly on the agenda as there is a sense of urgency in helping to make progress on a cyprus settlement. i am in contact with the turkish government to discuss how we can make meaningful progress across the whole of our relationship. thank you for your attention and i am looking forward to hearing your views on this issue.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commissioner has rightly said that the probable reserves have enormous potential for all the countries in the region. we should not be as stupid as mankind has often been: if we argue, no one gets anything afterwards. these things have often led to worse things, even wars. that is why it is most important to talk about everything with each other in order to find a settlement in this way. international law applies, of course. i understand our cypriot members, and you can say that drilling in their waters, exploring their waters, is not funny, it is a breach of international law, whether turkey is a member of unclos or not. but then, as the resolution says, it should join. i also think that the united nations is right - the cypriot government has said this - that both communities should share in the resources in an equal way, according to their size, and that they should not be available only to the greek part. the turkish government, which represents the country, is in full agreement with the european union on this. that is why it is indeed of great importance to enforce international law. but this should be done in a very open way, by talking to each other and working together to find a solution. it is so important to resolve the conflict itself, which is about the division of the island, in order to achieve the unity of cyprus here again. but it is also important to solve this question as a whole, and it is also in the interest of the european union that this question be solved when we talk about the diversification of energy resources. it would be foolish not to find a solution here. the european union should therefore try to reach out to our cypriot friends, to defend their rights, but at the same time be open to a solution in the talks with turkey, so as to arrive at a reasonable solution.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to express my strong condemnation on behalf of my group of the maritime investigations by turkey in the exclusive economic zone of the republic of cyprus and call on turkey to cease these activities immediately. we all know that this is not the first time that turkey has violated international maritime law, especially with regard to the northwestern part of cyprus. this time, however, it is the southern coast of cyprus, where turkey has no business and has not made any claims up to that point. i think it is necessary for the european parliament to make its views clear. our cypriot friends and colleagues rightly expect international bodies to comment on these developments and not simply to accept them in silence, especially since this has also put off the negotiations for a comprehensive solution to the cyprus problem. turkey has caused the crisis, and it is turkey's responsibility to ensure that the situation is defused so that negotiations can resume. i would remind you that some time ago dimitris christofias made a proposal to reach an agreement with mr talât on maritime zones. the question was whether these maritime zones should be placed under federal jurisdiction. the same should apply to gas deposits. unfortunately, these negotiations were not taken up by mr eroğlu, mr talât's successor. we therefore urgently need - and i think parliament must insist on this - a solution to the cyprus question, to the cyprus problem. we therefore call for the withdrawal of turkish troops from cyprus and support all efforts to achieve equal, bipartisan solutions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. turkey is celebrating itself with its new eu strategy and its newly launched national action plan. but is this new, what turkey is doing? it is provoking the republic of cyprus and the european union as a whole once again. once again, she wants to demonstrate her claim to power. of course, it wants the money from offshore extraction, it can get it, nobody has anything against it, but only if it goes to the negotiating table and gives in, just as south cyprus has to give in. turkey does not like this, and it does not like that the other countries in the region are involved for example israel. this too is a great thorn in the side of turkey! and then all this is a welcome reason for this country not to continue the cyprus talks, in order to continue quietly to market and exploit the northern part of the island. the republic of cyprus and the european union are again blamed for this. i don't think we should let that happen. i want a strong relationship with turkey, but that also requires that you speak your mind very clearly!
member of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, i should like to thank you for inviting me to join this discussion today and to thank members for the valuable points they have made. it is absolutely right to have taken this opportunity to express our concerns about recent events, to make very clear our position on the rights of member states, and to stress turkey’s obligations in crystal clear terms. we will convey this message strongly and engage our turkish counterparts towards a solution. this debate makes it very clear as well that we need to find ways forward. the eastern mediterranean is in a fragile geopolitical situation. it is in the strong interest of all of us that tensions are decreased quickly and we need more than ever to achieve progress on a cyprus settlement. earlier this year, the eu gave its strong support to the restarting of cyprus negotiations. we have made clear our readiness to help. it is time to deliver; it is time to stand firmly behind the united nations envoy, espen barth eide. it is time to help the leaders of both cypriot communities find a way back to the negotiation table, and i think it is high time to find an adequate answer and to give support to both communities.
the debate was closed by the tabling of seven motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 13 november. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the humanitarian situation in south sudan (2014/2922 ((rsp)).
member of the commission on behalf of the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - mr president, honourable members, south sudan, the world’s youngest country, has been at war with itself for eleven months now. a power struggle among members of the ruling elite has plunged the country into a human catastrophe of alarming proportions. the conflict which erupted in the capital, juba, on 15 december 2013 has created one of the worst man-made humanitarian disasters we are currently facing in the world. fighting and violence have forced nearly two million people away from their homes. 1.4 million conflict-affected people are displaced inside south sudan. over 100 000 of them live in the protection of civilian areas at overcrowded un bases around the country. small-scale fighting continues. at the end of october, heavy fighting erupted in bentiu, the capital of unity state, triggering condemnations by the eu as well as the un secretary-general. both sides not only continue to build their forces on the ground but also continue to make menacing and quarrelsome statements, and by doing so break their own commitments to seek a peaceful settlement. the crisis in south sudan has also had a destabilising effect on the region. over 470 thousand south sudanese have become refugees in neighbouring ethiopia, uganda, sudan and kenya this year. igad, the east african intergovernmental authority on development, is conducting peace talks. the latest igad summit on south sudan which took place on 7 november sent encouraging signals, with south sudanese parties stating their intention to cease hostilities immediately and reach agreement on an inclusive power-sharing arrangement within 15 days. nonetheless, it is too early to say if a breakthrough will materialise, and there remains a risk of a return to active hostilities in the near future, not least given the political leaders’ weak control of their commanders in the field. the conflict has dramatically increased food insecurity, and disease is on the rise with a dramatic increase in deadly kala azar (visceral leishmaniasis) infections. a quickly spreading cholera epidemic was contained after a massive international aid effort supported by the eu, and the looming famine threatening the most vulnerable was avoided in 2014. the european union has been at the forefront of the response, providing more than one-third – precisely 38% – of all international humanitarian contributions in 2014. the european commission alone has committed over eur 110 million for life-saving humanitarian assistance in south sudan, and an additional eur 20 million for the refugee response in neighbouring countries. despite these significant contributions, many of the urgent needs are going unmet. one example: 55 000 severely and acutely malnourished children under five have been treated so far, but there are an estimated 235 000 children facing severe acute malnutrition in south sudan. the relationship between the government and the humanitarian community is deteriorating. humanitarian agencies are under constant pressure to conform to the endless demands of authorities, both in government and opposition areas, to control the delivery of independent and impartial aid. in addition, several humanitarian aid workers of south sudanese nationality have been killed, while some are still missing, and this apparently because of their ethnicity. let me conclude by stressing that, firstly, a political solution of the crisis is urgently needed as a precondition for peace and reconciliation among the various groups in south sudan, which the european union is actively supporting. secondly, humanitarian assistance saves lives and alleviates suffering, but it cannot solve this crisis. the assistance cannot even be sustained at the current level for very long. third, as long as a political solution has not been found, and the humanitarian needs continue to exist, we have a moral duty to continue our efforts in responding to the humanitarian needs to the extent possible and necessary, while at the same time political and diplomatic efforts have to be intensified. fourth, the warring parties in south sudan have to understand that they have exhausted the patience of the international community. they must get their act together to the benefit of south sudan’s citizens and the development of the world’s youngest nation.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i am glad to see you in your new role. ladies and gentlemen, the debate on south sudan has again come to the end of today's agenda. this is about the same level of public attention as we have to the situation in south sudan. it is unfortunate, because the situation in that country is nothing but a humanitarian and political disaster. four years ago, people welcomed their independence as liberation from slavery after fifty years of war and civil war. but the expectations of the people have not been fulfilled, on the contrary, since december 2013, fighting has been raging in south sudan again, as the powerful in the country fight for power and influence. the commissioner said it: almost two million people have been uprooted, hundreds of thousands have fled to neighbouring countries, so it is no longer limited to south sudan. thousands were killed or mistreated! aid did not reach those who needed it, and even the un refugee camps were no longer providing protection. the commissioner mentioned the ceasefire agreement of 7 november between president salva kiir and rebel leader riek machar, which is the third this year. the two predecessors of the ceasefire have not brought peace to the country, the world community must finally act, and together! there must be no more arms deliveries to south sudan! sanctions must be imposed on those responsible for the conflict so that there is no danger of famine next year.
member of the commission. - mr president, this item on today’s agenda concerns two decisions of the european economic area (eea) joint committee and one decision of the eu-swiss joint committee on the free movement of persons agreement. let me start with the first two decisions which concern norway, iceland and liechtenstein. the first one concerns the amendment to protocol 31 to the eea agreement which enables the eea-efta states to participate in the eu programme for employment and social innovation (easi) and in the european progress microfinance facility for employment and social inclusion. it also provides for a financial contribution by these countries based on the same distribution key as eu member states. the second decision concerns the amendment to the same protocol 31 in order to provide for cooperation regarding the free movement of workers, the coordination of social security systems and measures for migrants, including migrants from third countries. the eea-efta states – norway, iceland and liechtenstein – participate fully in the eu rules on the free movement of workers and on social security coordination. the aim of this second council decision is therefore to continue cooperation in this area through a financial contribution by the eea-efta states to the monitoring of union law on such issues. the decision is adopted every year and has become a standard procedure since the conclusion of the eea agreement. the council adopted both decisions establishing the eu position to be taken in the eea joint committee on 5 june, and the eea joint committee adopted the decisions amending the eea agreement on 27 june. as regards the decision of the eu-swiss joint committee on the free movement of persons agreement, the commission submitted the draft decision amending annex ii to the agreement to the council. the council’s decision is expected on 25 november. this fourth adaptation incorporates new eu legal provisions in order to ensure the consistent and correct application of union legislation and to avoid administrative and possible legal difficulties. this is a technical amendment that will incorporate the changes to the eu legislation, for instance those concerning persons working in two or more member states, and that will help determine which legislation applies. i would like to highlight that the adoption of this decision will contribute to ensuring that the same rules are applied to the coordination of social security systems, irrespective of whether eu citizens live and work in switzerland or in another eu member state.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the creation of new, high-quality and sustainable jobs is a priority for parliament and the commission. 85% of all jobs in the eu are provided by smes. we must create a climate which encourages the emergence of new smes. the epp considers that this means not only cutting red tape but also providing financial support for these new enterprises. progress has proved to be effective in this area, providing better access to micro-credit for those who have previously had difficulty accessing bank loans. the european commission's implementation report of 20 october shows that this instrument has made a major contribution to job creation. more than 20 000 aspiring entrepreneurs have benefited from loans and guarantees totalling over eur 180 million. that's what gives us hope. since the beginning of this year, an eu programme for employment and social innovation has been building on the success of progress. a study published in parallel with the report shows that the demand for microcredit is far from being met! the gap is estimated at around eur 2.7 billion. action is needed here, especially in view of the record unemployment in many member states. i also support the extension of some of the microfinance to the eea/efta countries, as mrs thyssen has just described. the european economic area as an enhanced free trade area extends our eu single market to 31 countries. if countries like norway and iceland join, it will not only boost trade and not only boost outlets, but above all the much needed labour force in the eu. i think coordination with other financial instruments, such as our european social fund, is essential!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, on behalf of the european social democrats, i would like to welcome you to the house for the first time. we look forward to working with you! the amendments to protocol 31 to the eea agreement which have been made here are important because they support employment and the free movement of workers in the european economic area. we have already had a european labour market in which our countries and our citizens benefit from the possibilities of crossborder labour mobility. of course, there's still a lot to do here. but nevertheless: the cooperation seminars, better coordination, mutual support, learning from each other already contributes to improvement. that is why we support this amendment. as parliament's rapporteur on the easi programme, i am pleased that these parts are also being extended.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we're celebrating 25 years of the fall of the wall this week. there were at least 138 dead at the border. we're celebrating the completion of the wall. our dear colleague mrs zimmer of the sed successor party, die linke, has admitted this morning that it was not until 1988 that she had her first silent doubts about the gdr system, after 137 deaths at the border. now mrs zimmer's friends have stolen the memorial crosses for the victims and desecrated the memorials. mrs zimmer has missed an important opportunity today to distance herself from it. in her all-too-long speech, not a single word of regret! i am glad, however, to live in a country where such speeches are allowed and where the sed successors can also exercise their right to freedom of expression without restriction. democracy and the rule of law can take it! the member who just spoke wanted to restrict freedom of expression. if we do, we will oppose any attempt to restrict freedom of speech and expression, whatever the argument.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to welcome the last europeans in this room. president juncker has said that he wants to stimulate private initiative by smartly using public funds. i wonder where he gets the money for it. the key is to use it wisely, to raise public funds. should the unused residues from different eu pots be scraped together? that wouldn't add up! juncker could try to ask the member states to increase the capital of the european investment bank then it could take on more debt. you can only warn! if the planned investments are considered to be unproductive, the bank loses its aaa rating. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. that would be a breach of contract! this is what my party, the alternative for germany, will bring before the federal constitutional court. so where does juncker get the money? i wish him luck in the intelligent allocation of the funds he needs for his programme!
member of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, i should like to welcome the speaker of the moldovan parliament; i am happy to see him again. let me first of all thank the rapporteur, mr auštrevičius, for his excellent report, which contains many important recommendations and shows that we have a high degree of consensus on our policy with the republic of moldova. the people of the republic of moldova are aspiring to benefit from the same freedoms and stability we enjoy, and which are not self-evident for everybody on our continent. they wish to move closer to the european union, to our unique community, and the aspirations of the people of the republic of moldova remind us of what the european union has achieved over the last decades. we enjoy democracy, the rule of law, prosperity, peace and absence of major threats to our sovereignty. our focus on the republic of moldova is important. the republic of moldova is showing a determination to bring its european agenda forward. for this reason, in cooperation with high representative/vice-president frederica mogherini i have chosen to make my first visit as commissioner for neighbourhood policy and enlargement negotiations to chișinău. i was able to sign an agreement with prime minister leancă to provide up to eur 400 million for the years 2014 to 2017, in particular to accompany the implementation of the dcfta, provided it is adopted by you today. the republic of moldova is often called the front-runner of the eastern partnership, for it has achieved so much in a short period of time in its bilateral relations with the european union. we have negotiated with record speed the all-encompassing association agreement, including its highly complex deep and comprehensive free trade area. the republic of moldova is the first country of the eastern partnership that has a visa-free regime. i am proud to be here today so that we can together take a key step in moldova’s political association and economic integration with the european union. our association agreement represents a fundamental intensification and elevation of our relations. our ties now go far beyond what they were under the partnership and cooperation agreement, but the association agreement and the deep and comprehensive free trade area are instrumental in enhancing transparency, fostering economic growth, and supporting stability and prosperity. let me emphasise again that in this process we are guided by our core values which we put at the service of all citizens, citizens who deserve improved life standards which can be achieved only through sustainable and inclusive development in the country and in the region. with the upcoming parliamentary elections on 13 november, moldova is facing an important moment in its recent history. the holding of free and fair parliamentary elections is a key event in the country’s democratic life. the eu stands ready to continue its close cooperation with the future democratically-elected moldovan government that wishes to pursue this path. moreover, we are looking forward to a new impetus to the ambitious reform agenda after the elections. corruption needs to be fought, the justice and law enforcement systems need thorough modernisation, and the business and investment climate needs to be improved. only these key reforms will allow the country to unfold its full economic development potential. the eu will support moldova in these endeavours. during my recent visit to chișinău, as i already said, i was able to sign this financial agreement for the new eu programme, in particular to strengthen small and medium sized companies, develop the national legislation in line with eu quality standards and promote export and investment opportunities. let me stress that the association agreement is concluded with the whole republic of moldova but it cannot be effectively implemented yet on its entire territory. we hope for the possibility of applying the agreement, and in particular the deep and comprehensive free trade area, to all of its territory, provided the republic of moldova ensures its full implementation and enforcement. this, and visa liberalisation, plus our confidence-building measures across the river dniestr, underpin our commitment to help moldova overcome the division of the country. we have also shown to moldova that the eu is a reliable partner when it is faced with unjustified external pressure. we have increased our tariff-free quotas for the import of specific moldovan foods and vegetables. in august we inaugurated the gas interconnector between iași and ungheni and we stand ready to support the construction of the pipeline to chișinău. moreover, moldova is the country receiving the highest eu aid per capita in the eastern neighbourhood. let me conclude by saying that today’s ratification of our association agreement with the republic of moldova represents a major achievement for the people of this country wanting to benefit from the same values, security and prosperity as us, but also for the eu’s foreign policy in its eastern neighbourhood. the association agreement is a milestone on moldova’s path towards the union. thank you for attention and i look forward to hearing your views.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. first of all, the most important news: the epp group votes in favour of ratifying the association agreement! we want to continue good neighbourly relations with the republic of moldova and its people. as the european people's party, we are also proud of the work of our party friends in government: prime minister iurie leancă has done a great job. the citizens of the republic of moldova are already experiencing the first successes, such as visa-free travel to the european union. but these days we are also particularly moved by the russian pressure on our neighbours. the treacherous and continuing aggression of moscow in eastern ukraine - especially in the last few days - must be met with an appropriate response from the international community! we want to give the citizens of our eastern neighbourhood the freedom to decide on their social, economic and social model and their foreign policy orientation, and we accept their decision. our experience - that is, the experience of the 28 - is that our model in the european union is particularly suited to the people and the nations of europe. we are happy to help the republic of moldova to realize its desire to participate in european life in the european union, and hopefully in a few years' time it will be ready. the process is demanding. moldova has already done a lot, but there is still much to be done! the small country has embarked on a particularly difficult process of transformation because of its history, and we are happy to help to continue it. but we also expect the necessary changes and reforms in the rule of law and in public administration, because they are a prerequisite for the functioning of the european model in all areas of life, so that citizens can realize their objectives as citizens, as economic operators and as fellow european citizens. we are sending a positive signal to the republic of moldova with today's ratification and we hope that the citizens of this country will express their wish for an ambitious continuation of the european path of the republic of moldova at the parliamentary elections on 30 november.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. this is a good day - a good day for moldova, a good day for us, the european family. with the ratification of the association agreement and the free trade agreement, this parliament is saying yes to free trade, which can bring more prosperity for all, and yes to intensive cooperation and to supporting our friends in moldova in the transformation of their country. this transformation is not taking place because we want it to, but it is taking place for the benefit of the people there, because they want it to, because the people of moldova want to live in another country, namely a country with an independent judiciary, an independent media, transparent administration, a reduction in corruption, a social market economy and recognition of the rights of minorities. we can and will help and advise as the eu, as parliament and as the commission. but the parties, the civil society organisations should also be involved. because if politicians agree, that alone is not enough. a whole population, civil society, must be involved. we will continue to act actively, as we have done so far, with financial support, but also with visa facilitation, which is a big step forward. on 30 november, elections will be held in moldova. it is not for us to give any advice as to who should be elected. but it is important for us to see whether the people of the republic of moldova really want to go the european way. the european union has a duty to help the people of moldova to find a way to live in peace and security. i repeat: even when i am in moscow next week, we will always say: these treaties are not directed against anyone, not even the russian federation. we do not want to move block borders to the russian state border, but we want to work towards our long-term goal of creating a free trade area between lisbon and vladivostok. you have to work at it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. the last eastern neighbourhood summit was held almost a year ago. the eu commissioner responsible for this policy area at the time, füle, wanted the big picture in vilnius, the whole package. the eu's main objective was to reorganise the entire post-soviet area through association and free trade agreements. the implementation of this objective has become a political matter of deadlines, much of which has been sacrificed, including the self-proclaimed objective of conditionality and the sober answer to the question: are the companies concerned really ready for this decision, given its implications? the answer is not a flat rate. our neighbours to the east are not necessarily comparable either. however, i am particularly concerned about moldova with the experience of ukraine and i find it difficult to give my unreserved approval to the agreement. the agreement on the establishment of a european union customs union was signed in brussels on 27 june. so we have a situation where the different political elites in power have been deciding from above for a long time. in the case of moldova, this decision was taken in haste in view of the upcoming parliamentary elections. the political intention is clear: here too, the eu is being used for one's own small partisan political gain, knowing that the consequences will be socialized anyway. this is dangerous, because the republic of moldova is in a dangerous, difficult situation and independent contributions by the moldovan government to its solution are difficult to detect. the supposedly frozen transnistrian conflict is at operating temperature. it is urgently needed to clarify it on a political basis, by all governments as they are elected. the relationship with russia, but also with ukraine, must change and we as the eu must also be careful about how greater romania's ambitions from bucharest are dealt with. last but not least, we can see that in moldova too we are acting beyond the expectations of many social actors who expect a clear prospect of accession and link this to the association agreement, but only receive standard phrases and otherwise closed doors.
mr president, commissioner hahn, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. moldova has developed a perspective towards europe. in 2015, it intends to apply for membership. we talk a lot about the economy. i focus on the people, the families. they are all directly or indirectly affected by this agreement, by the partnership with the eu. moldova is suffering from the russian embargo on wine and food. people are trembling at the threat of an end to russian gas imports the contract expires on december 31. several hundred thousand moldovans work in russia as guest workers. sanctions against them would be existential, would drive families into poverty, parents into despair. the region needs political, economic and human support. let us in europe give the people of the region, especially the young, a genuine european perspective. and the moldovans, they confirm this european offer by their election on november 30. the human being at the centre of the market is my claim to the agreement with moldova. let's not close it for the big corporations, let's do it for the people!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the association agreement is urgently needed in view of the russian policy - i should say the russian aggression - . i'm just thinking about what happened yesterday. but it contains a passage that is unacceptable to me. this is the clause that the legislation in moldova should be changed in such a way that investment is facilitated, that obstacles are removed. in particular, it explicitly mentions investment protection and arbitration. this means that if the situation becomes such that environmental and social legislation can no longer be brought up to international and european standards. we've heard enough today about how low it is right now. this means that moldova is attractive for long-term investment precisely because of this. so there will be pressure on the government to actually implement this clause. this means that moldova will have to pay a very high price for this agreement, which is urgently needed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. even though it has already happened this morning, and we were only a very small number of people, i think this is the right moment to welcome the president of the parliament of moldova here, as we are very pleased with the friendly gesture of your visit, mr corman!
in the case of the united states, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the 21st century. the additional growth that this brings will benefit everyone, especially those countries that maintain and increase their competitiveness. ireland is particularly benefiting from globalisation, and certainly more than many other european countries. ireland should not need to be supported by this fund. moreover, a 'european globalisation adjustment fund' gives the completely wrong impression that globalisation is a negative that needs to be compensated for. globalisation is not just about positive economic effects in the form of goods, services and investment. it also promotes the spread of positive ideas, values and morals. globalisation has thus made it possible to extend the idea of democracy and universal human rights beyond the market economy. if countries are unable to maintain their competitiveness, they should initiate the necessary reforms, but not blame globalisation and take advantage of other countries' taxpayers.
in the case of the united states, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the united states to provide adequate financial support to the developing countries. the support includes training, start-up aid, coaching and outplacement of redundant workers. the globalisation adjustment fund co-finances these job creation measures at 50% or 65%, with the remainder being provided by the member state concerned. the european commission is thus becoming a gigantic labour market agency. however, the european court of auditors decided in a special audit report that this 'globalization fund' provided only limited eu added value and should be replaced by a more efficient scheme. it was explicitly stated that this globalisation fund was not the best way to provide urgently needed specific support. and yet the eu continues to pursue policies that have been proven to be inefficient. i cannot agree with that.
in the case of the united states, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the 21st century. the additional growth it generates is particularly beneficial to countries that maintain and increase their competitiveness. the decision to support greece with the european globalisation adjustment fund makes greece look like a victim of globalisation. but greece is not suffering from globalisation, but from a much too heavy euro. for greek exporters, service companies and the tourist industry, the euro has become a life-threatening programme, particularly for the unemployed young people. a european globalisation adjustment fund gives the wrong impression that globalisation is a negative that must be compensated for. globalisation is not just about positive economic effects in the form of goods, services and investment. it also promotes the spread of good ideas, values and morals. globalisation has made it possible for the idea of democracy and universal human rights to become more and more widespread alongside the idea of a market economy. if greece cannot maintain its competitiveness through reforms, it should regain sovereignty over its currency, rather than blaming globalisation for the misery in the country and using the taxpayers of other countries.
in the case of the united states, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the united states to provide adequate financial support to the developing countries. the support includes training, start-up aid, coaching and outplacement of redundant workers. the globalisation adjustment fund co-finances these job creation measures at 50% or 65%, with the remainder being provided by the member state concerned. the european commission is thus becoming a gigantic labour market agency. however, the european court of auditors decided in a special audit report that this 'globalization fund' provided only limited eu added value and should be replaced by a more efficient scheme. it was explicitly stated that this globalisation fund was not the best way to provide urgently needed specific support. and yet the eu continues to pursue policies that have been proven to be inefficient. i cannot agree with that.
in the light of the recent developments in the region, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: i voted for it, too. it is the first economic and political pact of its kind between the european union and a former soviet state. the agreement was adopted by a large majority, but there were some abstentions and even rejections. i think this voting behaviour is just cynical. the fact that moldova is geographically and culturally part of europe should not have escaped anyone's attention. so the only reason for the rejection/abstention is the tail of putin, which some meps seem still willing to confront him with. moldova is a democratic country, and its people are largely unwilling to be reintegrated into a putin-style 'new russia'. how can you just ignore that desire? in the name of peace, to satisfy putin's hunger for the restoration of the soviet empire?
in writing. - neither the council nor the commission wants to say how the association agreement with moldova constitutes the first step in accession negotiations with a new eu member state.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 13 november 2014.
ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we will receive his holiness pope francis. in this context, however, i would like to refer today to recent events in the middle east. last week in jerusalem we witnessed a bitter attack on a synagogue - in jerusalem, a city which is a holy city for three of the world's religions. the middle east as a whole is deeply shocked by this attack. five people died, and countless others were injured. it must be shocking for all of us when an attack is made on a house of worship where people are praying. in this case it was a jewish synagogue, but the same is true of any other place of worship where people want to pray, which is attacked. this represents a new level of violence which i believe we all here in parliament condemn in the strongest terms. the right of believers of all faiths to pray in safety must not be jeopardized under any circumstances or at any time. that is why such attacks are an attack on peace. i appeal to all of you not to let the violence escalate. the endless cycle of violence and violence must be stopped. the senseless killing must stop. we have often - and i repeat this here, i am sure, on behalf of all of you - called on those responsible to take the path of dialogue, to seek a peaceful solution. today, of course, our sympathy and thoughts are with the victims and their families in a special way, and i express our condolences to them on behalf of the european parliament.
the final draft agenda for this meeting, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 20 november 2014 in accordance with rule 149 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: monday:the epp group has informed me that it intends to conclude the debate on the commission's statement on the guidelines for impact assessment with a resolution. i call mr pieper to speak on the grounds of this request.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we're debating the impact assessment bill tonight, but unfortunately there is no resolution! the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the commission's proposal. unfortunately, it is also about strengthening the director-generals' discretion, so the impact assessment board has been weakened in its mandatory involvement. these are things that are decided these days. we won't accept that! that is why we want to put a resolution to the debate this week into effect, and i ask for your support.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the request was only submitted three days ago, and the shadow rapporteurs were not informed either. that is why the groups have not yet had the opportunity to discuss this matter in depth, especially since we have not yet had a thorough discussion of this matter in committee. i think it is necessary to give the groups time. it is also problematic because an international agreement is involved. if we want to be taken seriously as negotiators in international agreements, we should first of all make political decisions here without first submitting them to the european court of justice. otherwise we would have to refer many decisions to the european court of justice before the political decision is taken. in addition, there is a great deal of legal uncertainty for european airlines and the referral to the court of justice would delay the agreement by 12 to 36 months, which means that we might not be able to act in a timely manner on a very sensitive and very difficult issue such as the fight against terrorism and serious crime, both as an international partner and as the european parliament.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. why are we in favour of referral to the european court of justice? the majority of this european parliament has never denied that passenger data can be an element in the fight against terrorism, and we have also given our consent to two agreements in the past. but we did this at a time when data retention was still valid within the eu. but this directive has now been struck down by the european court of justice. this is the first international agreement we have to decide on after this judgment. and of course the negotiators were unable to settle this question during the negotiations. however, i would point out that both the council and the commission could have clarified the question of the compatibility of this form of passenger data agreement with european treaties and rights. they didn't. i cannot see any danger to the safety of citizens in europe and canada. the negotiations on the canada agreement took five years. in that time the data has flowed and will continue to flow until there is a vote in this house. i think it's a good tradition that we make sure that everything we do for the safety of our citizens doesn't violate basic rights. that is what we want!
are there any more messages for tuesday? that's not the case. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east, calling for the immediate release of the hostages and for the immediate release of the hostages. i call mr preda.
the efdd group has asked for the title of the commission statement on the situation of the steel industry to be changed. i call mr tamburrano to speak.
the ecr group has also asked for a commission statement on the irregularities in the polish local elections and the resulting threat to democracy in poland to be placed on the agenda for wednesday as the last item on the agenda, by means of a resolution. who would like to speak in favour of this motion?
the work programme is therefore adopted.
the next item is the debate on the motion of censure against the commission (2014/2197 ((ins)). i would like to begin by congratulating the commission, which - if i am not mistaken - has taken the floor in its entirety, with the exception of mr oettinger, which is of course appropriate to the occasion. mr zanni has the floor to speak on behalf of the applicants.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i want to apologize for not being able to attend this debate from the beginning. this is not a sign of rudeness, but a sign of uncontrolled traffic flows between saverne and strasbourg. i'm sorry about that. as regards the motion of censure tabled by the members themselves, i should like to say that i appeared in brussels at the last plenary session of the european parliament without being invited and gave the necessary explanations. parliamentary debates can be understood as the duplication and repetition of the same. but what i said in brussels on 13 november is exactly what i thought the situation was. i have drawn the attention of all my colleagues here assembled to the fact that, in my view, the interaction between divergent national legal provisions has led to a situation which is likely to lead, in the extreme case, to a sub-imposition of european and third-party companies which must be avoided in the future and which in no way reflects what i would call the ethical and moral consensus of convenience. the problem is not only luxembourgish but more ecumenical, european, since the anticipated fiscal decisions apply in twenty-two countries of the european union. that is why i have proposed a number of behavioural changes which we should adopt. during the election campaign, in my inaugural speech on 15 july and in the commission's inaugural speech in october, i called for the introduction of a system which would be characterised by a common european approach to corporate taxation. i added that i was in favour of the financial transaction tax, which is no longer a matter of concern to the commission since we are engaged in a process of enhanced cooperation of the member states concerned. i have called for the introduction of an automatic exchange system for advance tax rulings between the member states of the european union. on behalf of europe, i defended this dossier at the g20 in brisbane, australia, and i was supported in my approach by the heads of state or government of france, the federal republic of germany, spain and italy and by the secretary-general of the oecd. in spite of this massive reinforcement, i have to say that the g20 has not been able to mention in its conclusions the reference necessary for the automatic exchange of information, satisfying a general phrase on the transparency in the matter of advance tax rulings. all the europeans supported me, however, unless those who did not express themselves were suspected of having different intentions. i would like to remind you that when i was president of the european union in 2005, president of the european council and president of the ecofin council, i proposed to my colleagues in the ecofin council the establishment of a fiscal committee of the same rank as the economic and financial committee so that we could better monitor, at a high level, the application of the conclusions of the good conduct group and the code of good conduct that we had adopted under my presidency in 1997. i'm not sure i understand. i would invite the council, the italian presidency, to propose again to the ecofin council and the european council the setting up of a fiscal committee which will have the same rank as the economic and financial committee which, as a rule, prepares the decisions and meetings of the ecofin council. as for the motion of censure which is before us today, it has its place in the rules of procedure of this house. i would have preferred it to have been introduced in good time, in november when i spoke for the first time before this house after my decision. in view of the identity of the signatories of this motion of censure, i wonder about the deep meaning of this motion. i think i must answer the questions which will be put to me whenever your assembly asks me to do so, but i have the impression that the intention of the authors of this motion is not the one they are echoing, since they should know that i am not the friend of big capital. i'm saying that the hilarity in the upper floors of the european multinational was great when i was accused of this friendship. i want to add a few words. the motions of censure are addressed to the whole commission and i have the impression that i am the only one to be questioned. on 15 july i had said that if the european parliament ever withdrew its confidence in a member of the commission, he would be asked by the president of the commission to resign. i would like to ask the commissioner what he thinks of the proposal. if you want to leave, tell him! it's going to happen!
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, we had a very detailed discussion on this at the last plenary session in brussels. jean-claude juncker has put forward proposals on how we can tackle the issue of tax justice in europe. my group wants tax justice, we want to end the ability of large corporations to withdraw from their tax burden and cheat out of it. but we also want to move forward. that is why we need a commission which puts proposals on the table and initiates initiatives. that is what jean-claude juncker has done, that is what the commission intends to do, and we fully support it in this. the epp group will reject the motion on thursday. i would also like to point out that the whole commission is present - a strong sign of unity and a sign that the men and women whom we elected four weeks ago want to work. they want to go to work, and we want to support them in that. (applause from the centre) farage, le pen and others who have signed may be glad to have a few minutes of media attention now. this, by the way, only underlines that all members - including the right-wingers - have the same rights here in the house. if there are proposals, they are discussed and voted on. however, unfortunately, our rights are rarely given attention by god because they never work constructively, but always with the destructive. (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we're talking about tax issues here. in fact, in tax matters, no official of the european commission has to make a formal decision, no member of the european parliament has to make a formal decision, no evil bureaucrats in brussels have to make a formal decision, but tax law is in the hands of the member states, of sovereign, independent member states, as is the ideal of the colleagues on the right. i ask myself quite practically: why is it that in this ideal world in which mr farage and mrs le pen live, we are not able to solve this tax problem? ladies and gentlemen, the europe you have in mind is the reason why the companies can get away with this, the europe of farage is the reason why these companies do not pay taxes today because the member states are not able to solve the problem! (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. mr zanni from the grillo people introduced this initiative today. they say: 'we are europe!' i always wonder who "we" is. i look at the efdd group, for example: the grillo people say: "we need more solidarity with immigration". farage is walking around britain saying, "i'll even kick the romanians out of britain". there are romanians and poles in your group who say: 'we need equal rights with the founding fathers of the eu in western europe', and at the same time we see le pen saying: 'i do not want solidarity in this europe, on this continent'. we have many colleagues in your group, mr zanni, who work with hostile images, against foreigners, against refugees, against minorities, against jews. we have many people working with these images, and you stand here and say that they represent the new europe. ladies and gentlemen, you are not the new europe, you are the old europe! (thunder) (applause from the centre) i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i look forward to thursday and the vote because we are not voting on whether the commission can continue to work or not. i want her to be able to work, and that will be a large majority. we shall vote on thursday whether or not we wish to give the right-wing populists and the far-right a success. i do not want this success for the right-wing extremists in this house! (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is also aware of the fact that the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations on the future of the european union. we have not yet had a chance to discuss the matter with the commission, but we have had the opportunity to discuss it with the council and the commission. we have already pointed out how problematic it is - in view of the accusation that luxembourg is a tax haven, that corporate taxes are cheated there - in our view to come here with the aim of closing precisely these tax loopholes and ensuring fair taxation within the european union. when the documents became public - and it was only the documents of companies that had joined forces with pricewaterhousecoopers, that is, that had been consulted by them, there were at least 340 companies, 340 companies for which there were 548 so-called rulings in luxembourg - we immediately said: we must open a debate here in the european parliament that makes it clear that change, the way forward, towards more solidarity, towards funding that will actually be used for a european integration based on solidarity, and here too credibility in the european union must be paramount. and we asked you how you felt about it. and i can only say on behalf of my group that we were disappointed with your speech in brussels ten days ago. we expected clearer words. we expected you to understand that this is not just a criticism of you as a person, but a criticism of a system that now bears your name. the juncker system. that's the problem we're dealing with here! it's not just about you! the point is - and you said this in a footnote - that 22 countries in the european union now practice this very system themselves, in different versions and designs. you asked verhofstadt, you reminded him of his role. i'm sure you didn't do that wrong. but what is at stake, if credibility is to be achieved, is a clear commitment to your responsibility. you have tried to explain that as president of the commission you are not in favour of luxembourg. and that's not going to happen! we can't take that away from you! we also tabled a motion of censure for that reason. unfortunately, we did not get the signatures because we have been clear from the beginning that we want the right-wing, the far-right nationalists to have no votes. the europe that these members want is a different europe. i'm here to talk to the applicant from earlier. you have called for us to work with you to change the european union. but you didn't say where this change should go. i think that's the key point. that is the point that has distinguished our proposal from what some of you want. and those who, together with mr farage and marine le pen, propose to do so should not be surprised if others refuse. it is up to you to say that we want to change, that we want to move in a direction, to move towards a social union of solidarity. but then you have to decide who you're going to be in a group with. then you have to decide who you're going to propose to. we stand by that: we want that change. and we are also disappointed in the greens, we say that too, we are disappointed in the social democrats for not having taken the opportunity ten days ago to discuss with us and to make public the debate here on the different europe we want on the tax question. that would have been a chance! we have a chance now to at least get a committee of inquiry together. that's more than a special committee, after all. i appeal to all those who really care about us making a change and finally ending the current practice to at least help support this committee of inquiry!
thank you very much, mr president. i'm not surprised you're so concerned with these rules. the comments made by mr verhofstadt were a quote from the words used by the founder of ukip to describe the ukip party. i have not heard mr farage mention anyone here personally or in connection with that quote. i can't intervene in that regard. it is permissible in this house to quote what the founder of a party has said.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is also aware of the fact that the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations on the future of the european union. i think that the whole luxleaks debate is too serious to clarify the self-concept of those who are sitting on the right side of the house and who have often expressed doubts about their placement. i do remember having such discussions with the representatives of the five star movement. but it may be that all that is no longer true. so let's just leave it at that. i think we are actually in a very difficult situation with the european institutions, because the luxleaks publication came at a time when we really wanted to start over and have new enthusiasm for a better european solidarity policy. it is indeed the case that what constitutes luxleaks has created a new great unease about the functioning of the european union. the impression has been created once again that solidarity is not the supreme principle in europe, but that in europe individuals are in fact constantly trying to make profits at the expense of others and to achieve improvements for their countries. how it came to be, that's settled. but that is the perception of many people, especially in countries where we have made the austerity policies of the last few years so that the state no longer functions in the way that the small people and the small businesses who pay their taxes properly actually deserve and rightfully expect. so i think this debate about what revenue is actually owed to states, what they need to do to function well for their citizens, is a debate that we need to have. and if mr zanni thinks that i and my group have now become representatives of big business, he is mistaken. that is not the case at all. we want this to be clarified, we want unconditional information, and we see that this is better guaranteed if we do not simply proceed to this almost ritual act that we know from politics: bring me the head of jean-claude juncker. and then everything goes back to the way it was. on the contrary, we believe that jean-claude juncker, precisely because he is the one who looks to europe and shares with europe a great deal of expectations and a new beginning, is today with his entire commission in favour of changing the things that have gone wrong in luxembourg, but also in other countries, in the netherlands, in ireland, in austria - i can make the list longer - even with the tolerance of all the heads of state and government and all the finance ministers. it starts with a crystal-clear, hard and consistent explanation. the second is that the consequences must be prepared for now. the eternal struggle for a common tax base for business taxation must end. and for me, jean-claude juncker is faced with the question of being or not being. either you manage to clarify this - i know you cannot do it alone, and that is why i am against this request for resignation - or you manage to do it with your european spirit, which you want to bring into the institutions in a different way than your predecessor, or it will be dark. i would like to say to the whole commission: this is not just mr juncker's problem. the commission's work must be good and successful, because it is your joint task to win back the citizens' trust.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not we have a very important report here which is intended to develop the millennium development goals. this is a desperate need! you can take that very literally. because billions of people live in poverty and need. over 800 million people go hungry every day. this is a very big responsibility, and it's a very big challenge. we are guided by human rights throughout this report. unlike alde, i am very pleased that we are also continuously guided by the objectives of the un open working group. i am very grateful to mr stier for taking a holistic approach to combating poverty in this report, for his efforts to bring in the fight against inequality at all levels and for the protection of women's and children's rights. women in particular have a special role to play in building stable local economies. but we must also ensure that this broad approach is retained in the vote. i am a little concerned about the binding rules for our private sector, which are laid down in paragraphs 22 and 68. because without binding rules in the private sector that include a high social standard and also a high environmental standard and that involve people on the ground, we will not have a private sector driver for sustainable and inclusive growth. this report here in the european parliament alone will not satisfy a single child in the world. we must follow up this report with action! we must continue to support development cooperation, provide it with money and concepts and always involve the local population.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. every human being must have the right to live in decent conditions. that is why in the year 2000 the international community adopted the so-called millennium development goals, which were to be achieved by the following year. progress is being made in some countries, but we are far from being able to say that we have been successful everywhere. on the contrary! after 2015, efforts must continue to create good living conditions for as many people as possible. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) is a step in the right direction. on the other hand, we must also call on the political leaders in the so-called developing countries to take up this responsibility and work for their citizens. the fight against poverty and sustainable development can only be achieved if the opportunities available to the developing countries themselves are also used and those in charge do not plunder the wealth of the countries and the profits go into the pockets of the few. we must also demand that at this point.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. how can we actually speed up the process? and above all, how can we ensure that the 2014 funds are not lost? in this context, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to make a very clear warning: in the future, you cannot simply put the money you have not spent in 2014 elsewhere. i know there's a lot of greed. but there will be no re-labelling with us social democrats. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and 2014 ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, must not be a lost year for cohesion policy. we can do that here in this house, but the european union certainly cannot afford to do that! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. well, i assume that you are aware of what the committee of the regions does in this house, but also of what it does for europe. and as i said, all the money we spend in the member states through the committee of the regions and the european parliament is not spent in any other way, it is spent locally. they affect jobs, they affect quality of life, but they also affect young people, all of them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the implementation of the new regional policy should be made more effective and easier - that was the great objective announced. the reality today is devastating. we have heard of open accounts, we have heard that half the operational programmes have been approved so far. but what i find even worse is what i keep hearing when i go there, that the regions and local authorities have largely been left out of the implementation or the design of the partnership programmes. the economic and social disparities between the regions are growing again despite eu support, and we are talking about resources that should actually eliminate these disparities. i think that the commission must take decisive action here. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the financing of the community's structural funds is a good one. that would be a pack of crooks.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. we are asking the commission today when we should have asked the council at the same time. but the council seat is empty. it is the governments of the member states who are always the first to point to the structural funds and cohesion policy as the main instruments for growth and employment in europe. the new multiannual financial framework and the new funding period were due to start a year ago. the council has not yet taken a decision on the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals. regional cohesion policy has always been an important component of the union's cohesion. anyone who damages it is putting at risk a vital link in the european union! the commission must not now delay, but must take the lead in creating the conditions for the implementation of the new aid period. the support of the majority here in the european parliament is assured.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 27 november. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on export controls on dual-use goods by mr bernd lange, on behalf of the committee on international trade (o-000081/2014 b8-0040/2014) (2014/2869(rsp)).
a writer. - mr president, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i'm not only a person, but i'm also the chairman of the writers' committee. the committee on budgets has therefore put this oral question, and i think it is right. if you look around, you will see that the european union's arms export policy is as porous as swiss cheese, especially when it comes to dual-use goods. we know that in heavy trucks, you can actually differentiate between one that's more used to transport machine parts, or one that's used to build a missile launch pad. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. so it might be surprising if an activist in london receives an email about the situation in bahrain, and in that email there is a trojan horse that in the future will make sure that her smartphone is being tapped, that any text she types into her smartphone can be read by third parties. this is the kind of use of surveillance software and information and communications technology that we have everywhere to spy on human rights activists, on political opponents, on people who defend diversity of opinion and fundamental rights. so i think it's time to take a closer look at this. because it is not only that activists in other countries, where it is said that there is a terrorist regime or a regime that is not committed to human rights, use these dual-use goods of software and information and communication technologies, but also people in europe are being monitored by third-country forces through this software. this is not just a problem in bahrain, where european software has been delivered, but also in iran, where a whole control network has been set up with european technology, or in syria. libyan intelligence bought equipment from a company that openly advertises itself as "the best and easiest to monitor". even this company says it has about 50% market share in the middle east. and then if you look a little further, ethiopia is a customer, nigeria, uganda, qatar - these are all things that don't really fit into the concept of a value-based european union. it is therefore a good thing that the wassenaar arrangement of december 2013 included software trojans and network control systems. but this has not yet been reflected in european politics. but i want an eu system that guarantees that software and information and communication technology cannot be misused and cannot fall into the hands of those who monitor their population and people in a way that we do not accept. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. the commission has already made a number of proposals. what is the situation with regard to the uniformity and enforceability of legislation on dual use? we know that dual-use goods are all approved, so we seem to have no obstacles whatsoever to delivering these goods to areas where armed conflict is taking place. or the second question, the question of control. in the end, it is not possible to carry out ex post controls and not decide in advance which goods are to be exported to which countries. and thirdly, we must find a procedure which is as unbureaucratic as possible and which ensures that it is easy to use, without, of course, overlooking economic interests. i am therefore asking three complex questions, and i look forward to your answer.
it is customary for the chair to take the decision. it is also customary that if a speaker who waits for the blue card but has speaking time in the very same debate uses his or her speaking time to address whoever addressed him first, so your colleague anna fotyga now speaks on behalf of your group.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not there is still a lot to be done on how europe intends to deal with the export of goods which may seem harmless but can be used to persecute, for example, women human rights activists. the main objective must be to protect human rights and the safety of people - here in the eu, but also in third countries. it is not enough to check the goods only after they have long since fallen into the wrong hands. then it's too late. we need ex-ante, not ex-post checks. as technology evolves, so must we and our legislation. there's no point in taking out modern surveillance technologies, because they can do a lot of damage. i call on the commission to take up this matter now. we need a proposal now 2015 . this is not a purely technical matter, it is about how we protect people and how we protect human rights.
thank you and i do apologise to our colleague anna fotyga for assuming that she might actually be part of your group.
colleagues, again can i remind you to stick to your speaking time?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. we're talking about surveillance technology, and dual use is pretty glamorous in a lot of cases, because very often it's pretty clear what it's really about. it's just a matter of one use. every thursday when we meet here in strasbourg, this parliament deals with human rights violations all over the world. in the vast majority of cases we will find that surveillance technology has been used, often from the european union. we need ex ante consideration in these cases where civil rights and human rights are involved. we need a positive list, a positive list for both countries and products. mr lange, you have asked very valid questions. you have rightly complained that citizens of the european union are also victims of intelligence services of third countries. but mr lange: what do you expect from a european union which does not just export goods but which freely provides third countries with the data of its own citizens in the form of passenger data, in the form of bank data?
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the commission's guidelines on impact assessment (2014/2967 ((rsp)).
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, let me say how important impact assessment is for this commission. we need to deliver on growth and jobs; we need to make sure that we do not burden our citizens and our enterprises with undue regulation; we need to make sure that we deliver what is necessary so that europe can use the existing opportunities in the economy that we are not using today. i believe that we as institutions – the three of us: commission, parliament and council – have a responsibility when we create legislation to assess whether that legislation achieves the goals it needs to achieve and nothing more and nothing less. that is why i strongly believe in impact assessment at out outset, when the commission is preparing its work. that is why i believe we need to make improvements both in the way we do our impact assessment as a commission and by putting the impact assessment board in a position to do its work. however, i also believe that we have a joint responsibility, with the european parliament and the council, to improve the impact assessment along the way because, at the end of the day, what has an impact is not the initial proposal but rather the outcome at the end of the legislative procedure, and all of us know that this is not necessarily the same thing. so what we need to do – and i know that parliament feels strongly about this and is working on it – is to try to improve the process and ensure that the three institutions do more in terms of impact assessment along the way, so that when we have the final say about a directive, for example, before it is translated into national legislation, we have a clear view of the impact of what we finally decide to do, and of how to ensure that what it does is precisely what it is intended to do and not more than that. as i said at my hearing, i have a very special interest in helping small and medium-sized enterprises in europe to use the opportunities they have. from various studies i know of, and also through the contacts i have had with impact assessment authorities in member states, it is increasingly clear to me that removing some of the administrative burden or undue regulation from small and medium-sized enterprises can have a catalytic effect on employment and on fighting unemployment in the european union. just imagine, for argument’s sake, that we can lift the burden of administration from a baker or a butcher by 10%. i am convinced that even that 10% could make the difference between a baker or a butcher being able to hire an extra hand and that same baker or butcher having to close the business because there is no time to see to all the administration. these things can yield huge results because, given the number of small enterprises in the european union, helping them helps the growth of employment more than anything else. i want to remind you that 85% of jobs in the private sector in the european union are in small and medium-sized enterprises. helping those enterprises by lifting some of the administrative burden – by making sure when we legislate for them that the legislation achieves the goal we intend and nothing more than that – is a direct contribution to creating more employment in the european union. i am dead set on this goal. i am ready to come to you and be accountable for it, but i desperately need your support because when parliament acts in terms of impact assessment it makes a huge contribution to attaining that goal. we cannot do this on our own as a commission. we need parliament, and i hope that the commission and parliament together can convince the council to pick up this issue too, because up to now the council, to put it mildly, has not been very active in following suit where parliament and the commission want to achieve results.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. smes, small and mediumsized enterprises are important to us, they are the backbone of the economy, we must not overburden them with bureaucracy. we point this out in every political speech on sunday. mr timmermans, your speech was also a sunday speech, although with more substance and a view to the future. i would like to ask you a few questions, particularly on the commission's internal directives on impact assessment, and i would like to ask you to start work today. why is there no longer a mandatory sme test? why is the section on impact assessment not so precise anymore? why have the directors-general been given much more discretion as to whether or not there should be an impact assessment? these are very specific questions. we also want to urge the commission to make this sme test mandatory again and to take the impact assessment seriously. support our initiative to establish the successor to the stoiber group to reduce bureaucracy more independently of the commission! we have these expert groups in many european countries - in sweden, the netherlands, the czech republic, the united kingdom - and in germany too, independent bodies assess the competence and the bureaucratic effects of national legislation. why is there not also an impact assessment of the legislative proposals in brussels, independent of the commission? it is not intended to replace the work of the commission, let alone to restrict its right of initiative. we also do not want a moloch who interferes in the legislative process. we want a small panel of experts to advise on better legislation and subsidiarity. we need to do more to show people and businesses that the eu is not going too far with legislation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i'm going to try to formulate three simple ideas in a minute and a half. first, we must be careful that the better regulation agenda does not become the pretext for another deregulation agenda. if i look at what has been the best thing about business europe today, it has nothing to do with better regulation, it has everything to do with the destruction of future opportunities for our economy through deregulation. in this context, it is also important that impact assessment remains an inclusive tool, that we do not shift the agenda. we have to consider the costs, but we also have to consider the benefits of regulation. we must also take account of the new markets that may emerge. all of this has to happen in context. secondly, this so-called expert group proposed by the stoiber commission is something we should not be helping but rather working very closely on. i would point out that the representatives of consumer interests, health interests, environmental interests and trade unions in the stoiber group have distanced themselves from these proposals. we must discuss this carefully. we don't need bureaucratic de-bureaucratization talk, and we can't shorten stakeholder engagement to a few people. and thirdly and lastly, it would be dangerous to exclude micro-enterprises completely from the legislation, as some in this house would like. even eurochambres is opposed to this. we should do that, too.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the credibility of the eu 2020 targets is at stake. instead of 20 million fewer people, there are now seven million more people affected by poverty and social exclusion. it is not possible to agree on ambitious targets for job creation or poverty reduction while at the same time imposing strict austerity on member states. the reality in europe is that this is not working. we must not use the crises as an excuse. they must be incentives to achieve more ambitiously. it is time to make the social and employment objectives binding on the member states. the european semester, like economic and financial policies, must review social and employment policy objectives. we need - as has already been said - urgent investment, including social investment, and this must necessarily lead to good, decent, well-paid jobs. people are demanding a more social europe, or they will turn their backs. they expect europe to do a good job, they expect a social dimension and a europe which has the interests of the people no less in mind than the interests of the corporations and the banks. we can only achieve this if we take the social and employment objectives as seriously as we take the economic objectives.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. that's where i want to start. money and the market must serve us, not rule us. this quote is not from me, it is from pope francis, who we will be welcoming to this house in a few minutes as a special, hopefully inspiring guest of honor. but his quote also fits in with the ongoing debate on the mid-term review and the social significance of the europe 2020 strategy. the market must serve the people. i think the report is a very good stimulus here. some of them are from the ecr's pen. first, we want the eu 2020 strategy to take into account and promote the potential of young people. we need the entrepreneurial spirit of the young generation, who are the economic and social achievers of the future. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the small and mediumsized enterprises. secondly, we want the eu 2020 strategy to emphasise red tape policy even more than before, less bureaucracy. this has to be true for businesses, but it has to be true for all citizens, for families: less bureaucracy, more identity. thirdly, europe's competitiveness requires a healthy and sustainable demographic development. we need offspring, and offspring needs family. this demographic factor has been far too lacking. in the final analysis, my group will vote against the report today because it goes too far and is often inefficient. our message to the citizens and the new european commission is: no more debates, no more lamentations, no more texts, but action!
i have to say, madam president, 16 million people in the eu are expected to find work in the next few years. we want and must achieve one of the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy: an employment rate of 75%. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in his speech before us in the european parliament, jean-claude juncker said: social fairness must not be allowed to fall short. i agree! we must weigh the social impact of structural reforms. it would be wrong, however, to play social objectives against the consolidation of national budgets. the rebalancing required must not call this principle into question. i think that the introduction of an eu unemployment insurance scheme is problematic. the taxpayers cannot be used to finance unemployment in other countries. we have no single labour market, no collective agreements valid throughout europe and no central eu employment agency. we are against a transfer union. but i welcome employment and social indicators as useful tools for fact-finding. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these are ultimately rewarding for a real chance for the future of the workers.
i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. if i had wanted to save the eu project or the euro project at all costs, i might have designed the europe 2020 strategy in a similar way. it's ambitious, but it's going to fail. the commission's march review envisaged three growth paths. the first shows strong growth, the second low growth and the third stagnation. in southern europe, we are actually seeing recession, painstakingly covered up by the tricks of the statisticians. since the beginning of the euro crisis and the europe 2020 strategy is a direct response to this no change has been achieved in europe. the europe 2020 strategy, originally designed to deal with short-term crises, is becoming the strategy of institutionalised long-term crises. and why do all these concepts fail? the core problem is the euro, the excessive public and private debt and the loss of competitiveness and industry in southern europe. while the eu commission talks about smart growth... (the president interrupts the speaker)
i have to say, madam president, we are talking today about the 2020 strategy to combat unemployment, a ten-year plan. our plan says: unemployment in the eu is 10%. what does this number mean? i ask them something else: how warm was it in europe yesterday? in vilnius, they'll say minus three degrees. and in palma de mallorca, it was 73 degrees. but the eu measures 10 degrees. what does that have to do with unemployment? well, a lot of it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. interest rates are nothing more than the temperature of an economy. if this temperature is measured incorrectly, the patient becomes ill, and the result is unemployment. we should talk about the causes, so that our ten-year plans will be more successful.
i have to say, madam president, europe 2020 is the eu's growth strategy for the next decade. in a world that is constantly evolving, we want europe to have an intelligent and sustainable economy. the social aspects must not be overlooked. there is already a lot of sensible social policy legislation at european level. the first thing to do is to apply it properly. social indicators such as child poverty, unemployment and participation rates should be used only as an early warning system. we should not make them binding on the member states, because that would be a breach of the principle of subsidiarity. we do not need any more harmonization of european social policy. we need effective structural reforms in the labour market and social systems in some member states. the high level of youth unemployment is a challenge and the youth guarantee is a first right answer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the implementation of the eu 2020 strategy by member states shall not be carried out through debt-financed stimulus programmes. it would be a labour market bonfire.
your holiness . pope francis, distinguished colleagues, my dear guests, distinguished ladies and gentlemen! twenty-six years ago, pope john paul ii spoke to the european parliament. his speech was a milestone on the road to the fall of the iron curtain and the beginning of the reunification of europe. today, pope francis, you are addressing a european parliament whose members represent more than 500 million people from 28 member states. the members of this house represent the diversity of europe. over the past six years, europe has been experiencing a dramatic and unprecedented crisis. this crisis has serious consequences. the loss of trust in institutions by people, both at national and european level, is particularly dramatic. this loss of trust is enormous. but without trust, no idea, and certainly no institution, can last. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in this respect, the concerns of the european union and its institutions and those of the catholic church go hand in hand to a large extent. the values of tolerance, respect, equality, solidarity and peace are part of our common mission. the european union stands for with each other instead of against each other, for inclusion instead of exclusion. young people are struggling to find work and their place in our society, migrants are looking for a better future for themselves and their children, people are fleeing wars and disasters and are seeking asylum and protection. whether it is the issues of social justice or the unequal distribution of wealth and opportunities, whether it is the situation of the elderly in our society, or whether it is wars and conflicts in our neighbourhood and beyond: we face common challenges. your holiness, your words have tremendous meaning. not just because you're the religious leader of over a billion catholics. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i will say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. these issues are universal. her words provide guidance in times of disorientation. their messages of peace and dialogue, of sincerity and responsibility for each other, of solidarity and cooperation, make it clear that we must solve common problems together, that we are stronger together than alone. the commission's message is a very european one. the idea of european unity is based on this message. and your story, your holiness, is a european story. the story of a family who left europe and found a new home in south america. it's the story of a pope who returns from across the atlantic, from the other side of the world, to reform his church and lead the faithful. it is a story that can serve as a model and help europe to renew and reform itself. i would like to thank you, on behalf of all my colleagues, for joining us today and for accepting and following the invitation of the european parliament. it is an honor and a privilege for this house to hear you speak today. your holiness pope francis, you have the floor. (applause from the centre)
thank you, ladies and gentlemen. your applause showed that pope francis spoke from the heart to many of you - and i had the impression that to all of you. i just want to say we're grateful. thank you for this speech, thank you for this great encouragement. i take what you have said as an encouragement to continue along the path which the european union, the european community, has taken. this is a path to a good future if we stand together. you've given us some very important clues. i am grateful to you, holy father, on behalf of the whole european parliament, and i repeat what i said at the beginning: yes, you are a person who gives direction in times of disorientation. for that, we are infinitely grateful to you today. thank you for coming to us and talking to us. i am grateful to the european parliament for its support for the holy father's journey, ladies and gentlemen, both by your presence and your applause. i think we have many common tasks, and the words of pope francis help us in this. thank you again, holy father. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would like to ask, on behalf of the epp group, on the basis of rule 190 (4) of the rules of procedure, that this resolution be postponed until the december partsession. i would ask the libe committee and the applicants to allow the committees involved to discuss such far-reaching issues. because this is not just about that question, this has implications. the european court of justice's opinion can take up to 30 months. the time factor in the advance of many things is thus already a decisive political issue. that is why, on such an important issue, the committees involved, from libe to afet and whoever else, should be involved so that we can have a real discussion of the consequences here by the december plenary. i think that would be fair.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to support the motion. firstly, this approach was not so agreed among the shadow reporters. we have not had enough time in the group to discuss the scope and possibilities in detail. and i think it is also appropriate to talk about these implications because we all have to consider what this means in terms of the consequences for partnerships with other countries, for airlines, but also for our political responsibility. we are the legislators, not the european court of justice. we must also start to take political responsibility!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i almost said, "oh, they're not cute". in the last few days i have been hearing from those opposed to the court's hearing that a case before the ecj could perhaps take two years. it's been 30 months. if we discuss this for another week, it's probably four years. i would also remind you that the pope has just told us that we should accept our own rules and values. i listened to him. whether it is a vote in this house or an election result, you may not like either of them in case of doubt. we must accept the result of the vote. we had a vote yesterday which was clear. and we should be deciding on this resolution now.
in writing. this agreement is a major step forward in the settlement of crossborder disputes between legal entities for the benefit of all parties. since critical areas such as consumer and worker protection are excluded, german citizens have no reason to fear any disadvantage in regard to our legal standards.
in writing. with the globalisation adjustment fund, the eu is too easily giving the impression that globalisation is a negative thing from which citizens should be protected. it is thus fuelling fears and resentment against a process which in many ways benefits citizens in part. although it is not an effect of globalisation that these finnish workers are sadly losing their jobs, i voted in favour of mobilising the fund. in this way the finnish state receives the financial resources it would actually need from its national budget to meet its social obligations. but in the present state of affairs in the eu, i think it is justified to give finland back by my vote some of its membership dues which are overdue in this case.
in writing. i rejected this request. the french side argues that the global economic crisis has led to a reduction in meat consumption. in addition, pig feed prices have risen sharply in recent years. france is requesting funds from the fund in view of the closure of a slaughterhouse as a result. it is not clear why the eu should claim responsibility for this. the question must also be asked how these events relate to the issue of globalisation.
in writing. as regards the referral of the agreement on the safeguarding of passenger data with canada to the ecj, i advocated that this issue be discussed first in the committee responsible. the decisive factor is that a review by the ecj will take a long time. in the meantime, there is uncertainty about the scope of the directive. the transfer of passenger data shall be subject to a decision as to whether the need for security outweighs the right to data sensitivity. the scheme helps in particular to combat terrorism by recording suspicious travel movements. this is legitimate given the increasing number of returning terrorism suspects worldwide. unfortunately, we have seen very recently that canadians are the targets of terrorist attacks, when a few weeks ago terrorists broke into the canadian parliament and took hostages for hours. canada is a reliable partner for the eu.
in writing. the retention of passenger data raises the fundamental question of whether police and judicial cooperation is more important than the individual protection of citizens' data. citizens should not be subject to general suspicion when booking air travel. the request was submitted at the last minute, the group coordinators were not informed and there was no discussion in the committees. as a member of the afd , i stand by our political program: alternative für deutschland strongly calls for a comprehensive right of the citizen to determine his personal data himself. the monitoring measures which are unjustified, uncontrollable or in breach of the principle of proportionality shall be discontinued. this includes the retention of data required by the eu. the effectiveness of state surveillance measures to prevent or combat serious crime must be demonstrated publicly in a transparent and quantitative manner. the mass transfer of european citizens' data to the security authorities of the usa and other non-european countries must be stopped. this applies in particular to the transfer of data from international transfers under the swift agreement and to the transmission of passenger data.
in writing. - i voted against the motion for a resolution. passenger data agreements are an important building block in the fight against global terrorism. the threat situation is becoming increasingly complex. this data is needed to better combat terrorist acts and other criminal threats posed by organised crime, trafficking in human beings, children and drugs. the growing threat of foreign fighters reinforces this need. pnr agreements bring citizens clearer and better data protection rights, as well as greater security. and for the airlines, they mean more legal certainty. i voted against the motion for a resolution because we as the european parliament and legislators should take political responsibility and retain our powers and not give them to the ecj. the commission is the guardian of the treaties and scrutinizes the proposals for legislation to ensure that they are compatible with the treaties. the european parliament is a legislator on an equal footing with the council and the commission in its institutional structure, and the court of justice has jurisdiction in matters of law! it is our responsibility to maintain the institutional system of the eu and that is why i voted against the motion for a resolution. furthermore, i am convinced that the ecj's opinion will not go beyond the retention requirements of the judgment.
in writing. i voted against this report because it contains mismanagement in a variety of ways on the issues of gender and climate, of which the ep has already decided on enough to the detriment of the citizens.
in writing. all women have the fundamental right to access to public health systems, in particular to basic medical care, gynaecological and obstetric services, as defined by the world health organisation. the ep is also calling for the eu to take action to combat poverty in the third world, and for the eu to take action to combat poverty in the developing world. the concept of 'sexual and reproductive health and rights' is not defined in any international treaty or convention. the who dictionary uses 'inclusive language' which means 'sexual and reproductive health' in particular fertility control methods and in particular abortion methods. there is no international legal obligation to provide abortion facilities. in the estrela report, this same eu parliament stated on 10 december 2013 that the formulation and implementation of srhr policy (as well as sex education in schools) is a competence of the member states and is explicitly not a competence of the eu. the european parliament has also expressed its concern at the lack of progress in the implementation of the un convention on the rights of the child, which is a fundamental human right.
in writing. - the fdp agreed to the report because we support the arguments for strengthening dual training. particularly in the context of high youth unemployment, the promotion of dual training is important, as long-term studies show that people with dual training are more successful on the labour market than people who have learned their profession only in a vocational school. at the same time, the report has significant weaknesses in other areas. social indicators should not be part of the country-specific recommendations or the european semester, as no social and employment problems are yet apparent during the emergence of macroeconomic imbalances. only when a macroeconomic imbalance has been exposed openly do the real social and employment problems of the country concerned become apparent. the fdp also rejects an increase in the youth guarantee.
in writing. the design of this strategy shows how little understanding of the causes of the current crisis has been achieved. what the distressed countries need first of all is reform. many european countries - both north and south - have still not understood what drives employment. we could be in a much better position today if lean and reliable legislation were to become the hallmark of europe! the report does not provide sufficient information on this.
in writing. the fdp agreed to the report because we support the arguments for strengthening dual training. particularly in the context of high youth unemployment, the promotion of dual training is important, as long-term studies show that people with dual training are more successful on the labour market than people who have learned their profession only in a vocational school. at the same time, the report has significant weaknesses in other areas. social indicators should not be part of the country-specific recommendations or the european semester, as no social and employment problems are yet apparent during the emergence of macroeconomic imbalances. only when a macroeconomic imbalance has been exposed openly do the real social and employment problems of the country concerned become apparent. the fdp also rejects an increase in the youth guarantee.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am far from happy that the member states were unable to reach a compromise. the picture we are giving to the outside world is actually quite confusing, and this is even in a difficult time of crisis. we are also expected, in times of crisis, to have the courage to put emphasis on what has been on everyone's lips for months - i would almost say in sunday speeches - and that is called growth, that is called jobs, that is called social stabilisation, that is called innovation, that is called research and so on and so forth. in this context, it is of course particularly incomprehensible to expect to receive back five billion in fines or other payments in the european union, to have old bills of 6.3 billion and to have the commission make a proposal of 4.7 billion which one would like to pay. we are now entering the typical technocratic debate which is not understood by the public. what's in the contingency, what's outside the ceilings, what's inside the ceilings? i need an hour to explain to someone what we are discussing here in a technocratic way. it is simply that nobody outside the community understands that we have open accounts, that we have money in our accounts but are unable to pay the bills because the member states would like to have it back in their budgets but do not want to pay the old bills. i 'm gonna say this in a very offensive way . the old bills should be discussed as little as possible. they're to be paid. we once had a consensus here that old bills should be paid and debts should not be carried over to the next year. that was actually a fundamental principle of this european union, which we are breaking at the moment. the second is that if we transfer too many old bills to the budget, we will put commissioner georgieva in an almost impossible position. the new programmes are to be launched, including important programmes. i am now consciously mentioning one on which the whole european parliament is hanging, which has started brilliantly and is fulfilling exactly the purpose we have set for ourselves: namely, the new programme horizon 2020, which has set itself the task of supporting innovation and research for small and mediumsized enterprises. which companies are most likely to report there? it is italian and spanish smes, it is smes and small businesses from countries which are not doing so well economically at the moment. now, if 95 percent of these companies are rejected or even unable to apply for the programme, then we are frustrating those who are really putting all their skills to work for science and research. i therefore ask that old accounts be settled and that new programmes not be over-subscribed, because otherwise we will not be able to do what is necessary in the essential areas.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. when will we see an end to this annual ritual? net contributors see their payments to the eu budget as a lost grant, not as a means to achieve commonly agreed policy objectives. the net beneficiary countries, of course, see things differently, but they do not make their case in the council. as a result, the eu budget is allocated according to national discretion rather than political necessity. the eu commission commits to financing projects but the council does not pay for them. the victims are students, towns and municipalities that cannot afford their urban development projects, small and mediumsized enterprises. if you need any more proof that the eu needs real own resources, here it is! but even that would not be a solution in the short term and is failing at the moment because of the council's dogmatic attitude. the council's compromise may not solve a serious problem, but it would at least contribute to short-term stability. the commission needs eur 4.7 billion to prevent the situation of unpaid bills from getting worse. on the other hand, we have 5 billion euros in fines collected. but we cannot do that either, because here too a council dogma stands in the way, namely the dogma that revenue from the eu budget should not be used for the eu. i would urge the presidency of the council to free us from these dogmas. (the speaker agrees to answer two questions under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. mr etheridge, like it or not, this eu has rules and we abide by those rules. i understand that they are complicated in the budget procedure. i understand that the british electorate is not well informed about this. when i read british newspapers, i also think i can see that they obviously perceive a different eu than i do. the british situation is particularly complicated at the moment because of the need for additional payments. my point is: let us create own resources for the european union, a separate revenue base for the budget, and all your problems will be solved.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. you could not be more right, mr president. however, the situation in the european union is quite different. the member states which agree on policy objectives in the framework of the legislation for the seven-year programmes are the same member states which are then unwilling to finance these objectives adequately. that is one of the illogical aspects of this event in the european union. one of the things that has been most irritating to me as a housekeeper for the past five years is that people in the capitals still get away with this kind of logic. when a german government official stands in front of the camera in berlin and says that the eu must save, he gets applause because it is not said that he is not actually keeping his own promises in financing the budget.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the eu budget has not only failed this year, it has failed many times in recent years. in view of this, we must ask ourselves: do we have the right system for drawing up a budget if we repeatedly fail to do so within the prescribed time limits over a period of a few years? i am not sure that the commission is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. shouldn't we all - the european institutions and the member states - be pulling in the same direction? and if we pull on a string, we pull in the same direction. we have a lot less of that. we also have - and this has been said before - a far too complicated budget, far too many screws. we cannot explain to anyone outside this parliament, especially the citizens, how this budget works. we should therefore be more transparent and simplify this budget. i see the figures we have here: an initial draft of the commission of 142 billion euros, then reduced by the council to 140, increased again by the european parliament to 146 and in the conciliation committee we come back to 142 billion but we are not in agreement. the problems of debt have not been addressed at all. that means we don't have a solution to this problem yet. we believe that the only way to solve the problem is to reduce the appropriations for commitments, but in no case to increase the appropriations for payments by the same token. we want a lean and frugal budget!
i have to say, madam president, i would like to speak to you personally, commissioner. you are right that men need to be actors too when it comes to ending violence against women. i appeal to you today in a very special way: first of all, the commission, and first of all you, must become an actor in the fight against violence against women. you are responsible, you cannot hide behind the member states! the commission has been asked on several occasions by the european parliament to finally present a directive on violence against women. it is about dignity, it is about physical and mental health, and it is about sexual self-determination for half the population in all the member states. they say today: "everything must be worked out". i say to you: the background and the facts have been established for a long time, now we must finally act! if you wait, you'll be guilty. violence is not a chivalrous offense, and looking away is not a chivalrous offense!
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr moraes sincerely for raising issues which are fundamental, which are priority, which are among the major priorities of our six-month presidency. i am also pleased that the commission's programme under the presidency of mr juncker has identified immigration as one of its immediate priorities and included it in its 2015 legislative programme. this is certainly a point of great importance to us. it is of great importance because if there is one area where the european union can and must demonstrate its added value, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely immigration. by definition and by nature, immigration is a cross-border phenomenon. by definition and by nature a crossborder phenomenon requires a more integrated, more common and more courageous response from the european union. we have worked very hard during our semester to give concrete meaning to that principle, to that article in the treaty which speaks of solidarity in immigration matters. for me, that article is a principle, it is a political principle, it is a legally binding commitment, it is a political programme for the european union. a political programme on which we must work much harder. it is much more in cooperation between the council of ministers, the commission and parliament. in his question the author referred to the work of the mediterranean task force. as you know, mr moraes, the task force has already carried out 37 concrete and operational interventions in the mediterranean in five priority areas. i remember them: cooperation with third countries, regional protection programmes together with resettlement and strengthening legal access to europe, the fight against trafficking, smuggling and organised crime, strengthening border surveillance to help protect and rescue migrants in the mediterranean, measures to assist member states facing high migratory pressures. these are the areas on which the task force has worked and the task force has reported regularly to the council. i trust that this information has been given to the european parliament as well as to the council. that said, are we satisfied with the situation today? no, we are not satisfied and we share the words to which you referred, which you have quoted from the pontiff. we too always say that the mediterranean cannot be a graveyard. and i would add that it cannot be and cannot continue to be a graveyard of european indifference and selfishness. that is the real meaning of the word solidarity. that is why we must work much harder to implement rapidly the operational programme adopted by the council of ministers in luxembourg on 10 october. one of the conclusions, entitled 'acting to better manage migratory flows', concerns a strategic approach to give a concrete response to the migratory pressure around three broad guidelines, three broad areas, which are amongst others those which we had identified as priorities during our semester, namely strengthened management and external borders. after years of work and after years of the very heavy responsibility that europe has taken on in rejecting this principle, the principle that the external borders of the european union are not italian or polish or greek or spanish borders has finally been overcome. the external borders of the european union are common borders and, as such, they require a common approach and joint initiatives, which is also the basis for the triton initiative you mentioned. of course, this is not enough, it must be accompanied by much more operative and much more effective cooperation with third countries. the dialogue with the countries of origin and transit should first be extended at the geographical level, according to the presidency. it must certainly continue to include north africa, but mobility partnerships must become much more effective, they must be much more linked to economic cooperation, they must be much more linked to trade cooperation. we must extend this to sub-saharan africa, and we must - and this was one of the things we worked very hard on during our semester - extend it to the horn of africa. these are areas to which we can extend that approach, something which only the european union can do. only the european union can make a real difference in these areas. there is also much to be done because the first experiences and partnerships for mobility are not satisfactory. let us say so in this house. there is much more to be done, we must work much harder to make operational sense and to convince the countries of origin and transit to really commit themselves to cooperating in a concrete, effective and tangible way with us in managing migration flows. and then there is the third area you mentioned, which is to support and fully implement our common european asylum system. as president-in-office, i do not want to and cannot, mr moraes, go into some of the remarks you have made which would relate to possible infringement procedures against member states, which is the task of the european commission, or to the presentation of new legislative proposals, which we would like to see, but which are within the institutional prerogatives of the commission. i would just like to say that progress has been made in this common european asylum system in recent years and also during our semester. there are more common rules, there is less scope for derogations, there are steps forward. i am also thinking of the new regulations within the dublin system, which we as the presidency consider to be inadequate in part. there is no agreement in the council, but we consider it to be inadequate in part to meet all the challenges. but inside there are some margins of flexibility that need to be exploited for a much more effective management of an issue that is very serious, in the general gravity of the issue of immigration, which is the issue of unaccompanied minors, on which the rules allow us to do much more, as well as we have a new early warning mechanism. it is clear that in the years to come the emphasis will have to be on consolidating the system, completing the system and also on a full implementation of the various legislative and administrative instruments that that system requires in order to arrive at a genuine common european asylum system, which is the third element that is absolutely necessary. to do what? to rebuild mutual trust between the member states. because what has happened in recent years, namely that we have left some states really alone to deal with a massive phenomenon such as immigration, which affects us all as europeans, has been the lack of mutual trust between the member states. it is essential, and that is why we must work on the question of borders, on the question of dialogue with third countries, but also on the question of a better asylum system, which means that individual member states must also improve their national asylum systems, because that is the only way to re-establish the mutual trust which is the indispensable prerequisite for a genuine new immigration policy. it is with this in mind that, as the presidency, we proposed during our term the principle of mutual recognition, on which there is still no agreement but which is certainly one of the answers to create that system to which you referred, but which needs a premise: we have to trust each other again. until there is full mutual trust, there can be no common immigration policy which europe can and must absolutely develop.
member of the commission. - madam president, migration was always part of the home affairs portfolio but was never before in the title. now it is – for symbolic, but also for pragmatic, reasons. i would like to express my thanks to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and its chair, mr moraes, for having given me the opportunity to be present today at this very important event. i would also like to quote what pope francis said this morning. i fully agree with what he said and i can tell him, on behalf of everybody, that this strong signal that was sent to us was received with full respect for his remarks. i make no secret of the fact that i am honoured to be responsible for this portfolio. at the same time i know that there is no easy solution to address the important tasks ahead of us. but i can assure you that there is a strong political will. your extensive questions show the complexity of the challenges the european union faces on migration and asylum. we are confronted with the highest migratory pressure at our external borders since the balkan crisis. this requires an integrated approach covering all areas, including foreign and security policy. it requires restoring and building more mutual trust to successfully face these challenges – trust between the member states, and between the member states and the european union. the sharing of solidarity and responsibility remains the foundation on which the commission and the member states are building a common european migration and asylum system with common standards and rights for migrants. many tools for solidarity have been developed to put this into practice, such as the financial solidarity and supported guidance provided by the relevant agencies – the european asylum support office (easo) and frontex. relocation has been developed by the commission, and we will continue to work on this. we have the early warning mechanism and the possibilities offered by article 33 of the dublin iii regulation. some of these tools have already proved their worth. we need to further develop and use all of them as appropriate. solidarity goes hand in hand with responsibility. all member states must take full ownership of the proper functioning of the system. the full and effective implementation of the common european asylum system is an absolute priority. the commission will closely monitor implementation by the member states and support their efforts. the commission will support the member states in practical cooperation, notably through easo. we also count on the continued engagement of non-governmental organisations and international partners such as the united nations high commission for refugees. the qualification directive and the dublin iii regulation are already in force, but the other instruments will only be applied from next july. so i do not see an urgent need for major changes to the asylum system in the very near future, but this is not ruled out for the medium term after careful consideration. smuggling and trafficking have elements in common, but they are two separate criminal offences which required tailored responses. the eu’s response to trafficking in human beings will remain victim-centred and human rights-based. we must ensure protection for all victims and a strong criminal response to the traffickers, working closely with all the justice and home affairs agencies which implement actions on anti-trafficking. prevention is key, and the member states are obliged to take legal action to reduce the demand that fosters all forms of exploitation, whether this is by criminalising employers who use victims, or by holding companies liable or individuals who knowingly use victims. smuggling is steadily increasing. we need to increase our response capacity. we need to build a stronger criminal justice response to stop this crime, investigating and prosecuting those in charge more severely. the eu plan that we intend to develop to counter migrant smuggling will focus both on dismantling the criminal networks through reinforced intelligence sharing, investigation capacities and prosecution, and on prevention, through information campaigns about the dangers of being smuggled into the european union and enhanced cooperation with third countries. the response to the migratory pressures at the borders and smuggling should include a strengthened role for frontex. to broaden the activities of frontex, member states must uphold their commitments to work with the agency. only they have the border guards and equipment to carry out such activities. regarding joint operation triton: as you know, this began on 1 november of this year, and its duration will depend on how the situation evolves. the commission is following it closely, but the decision will be made by the agency and the member states involved. the estimated cost is eur 2.9 million per month. to launch and finance it in the short term, the agency performed internal reallocations and the commission provided eur 3.9 million via a direct transfer from resources available under the internal security fund. the commission is aware that parliament has proposed an amendment to add a reserve of eur 20 million to the 2015 frontex budget. we look forward to the final joint decision on this by parliament and the council. resettlement is for the time being effectively the only route of legal entry for a person in need of protection. it is the most tangible expression of international solidarity with refugees in third countries but also a tool to relieve some of the burden on host countries. while the decision whether to resettle and, if so, how many people lies with member states, the commission will continue its efforts to encourage them to increase quotas or, of course, to start resettlement for those not doing it yet. but something is out of balance here. member states that receive the highest numbers of spontaneous asylum requests are also the ones that resettle the most refugees. the commission intends to address the situation. yesterday my services had a first orientation discussion with the member states on a possible allocation or division mechanism. the commission is already committed to exploring new avenues, in particular the possibility of developing a common approach to issuing humanitarian visas to allow those in need to come to europe and apply for protection. this was also discussed during the meeting yesterday. i do realise that it remains a very sensitive issue. on legal migration: for obvious demographic and economic reasons, europe needs to address labour and skill shortages and address the challenges of an ageing continent. we will work closely on this with business and social partners. our first step will be to look at policies currently in place, such as the eu blue card, and see what can be done to increase their attractiveness and effectiveness. the answer to many of the challenges in the area of home affairs lies in our relations with third countries. we need to improve the link between the european union’s internal and external policies, putting an emphasis on the need to adopt a long-term approach which addresses the root causes of migration. in this vein we should try not only to respond to immediate emergency situations but also to work on a comprehensive and structured approach to address the increasing migratory pressures. more specifically, the european union approach should aim at integrating political and economic stability, development and security aspects, as well as both operational and political instruments. issues such as migration, asylum, crisis management, humanitarian aid, development, trade, democratisation and human rights should be addressed in a comprehensive and coherent way. we must make sure that migration is embedded in all fields of eu external relations, including development cooperation and security policy, but we also need to be supportive and credible. we must support partner countries, therefore, to ensure better migration and border management as well as improved protection and reception capacity with a view to helping these countries fulfil their international obligations. mobility partnerships have been put in place to enable deeper and tailor-made policy dialogues and operational cooperation with partner countries, so far with morocco, tunisia and jordan. for the long term, tackling irregular immigration at its source is the best investment we can make. i intend to coordinate with high representative federica mogherini and work closely with my colleagues, the commissioners responsible for neighbourhood policy, development and humanitarian aid, as was set out in our mandate by the commission president. finally, i turn to funding. under the development and cooperation instrument the commission is currently implementing initiatives for around eur 53 million focused on migration and international protection. around eur 14 million of this fund supports the fight against trafficking and smuggling and tackles irregular migration, while eur 17 million is dedicated to actions focusing on regional development and the protection programme for refugees and host communities in the middle east, the horn of africa and north african countries. the european neighbourhood instrument mobilises around eur 60 million for migration and international protection-related interventions in the mediterranean countries. in addition, around eur 200 million was allocated in 2014 to respond to the syrian refugee crisis. under the 2014 to 2020 financial framework, member states and schengen-associated countries will receive more than eur 4.4 billion under the two funds combined: the asylum, migration and integration fund, and the internal security fund – borders and visa. the frontline mediterranean member states – italy, greece, malta and spain – will receive a large share of these funds: in total, together, around eur 1.4 billion over the whole financial cycle. for emergency situations we have set aside for 2014, for all member states together, eur 25 million under the asylum, migration and integration fund, and eur 6.8 million under the internal security fund – borders and visa. i am looking forward to working closely with you to tackle these challenges using all the means that are at our disposal.
i am not going to go into detail. we just lost more than 12 minutes on the scheduled time. i am therefore sorry to have to tell you that i must be very strict about speaking time and that i cannot give more than five speakers the floor in the 'catch-the-eye' procedure.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. i would like to thank the italian presidency for the work it has done in this area. of course, the magnitude of the subject makes it impossible to go into all the details. i would therefore like to limit myself to one point, apart from the rescue of refugees. first of all, commissioner, i should like to congratulate you on your report. i think your speech shows how much work we have to do to find a solution. that is why i have a specific question on cooperation in combating trafficking in human beings. in 2013, some 42 000 people crossed the mediterranean, and in 2014 the figure was 108 000. the death toll is estimated by the migration agency at 3,000. we do not know the numbers of people who are killed, tortured, or abducted by criminal traffickers, or who are subjected to forced prostitution, forced labor, slavery, organ trafficking, child sexual abuse, torture and many murders, because we cannot see them and we can only guess at the scale. while fewer women seem to be victims of trafficking, more and more children are being trafficked. in this context, it is particularly important to me that the law enforcement agencies also cooperate in a coordinated way, that we develop cooperation with third countries that is suitable for stopping traffickers, and at the same time that we strengthen cooperation in humanitarian aid - although this is not part of the tasks of our committee - and that we expand the legal possibilities for humanitarian visas so that we can stop traffickers. how can you increase cooperation in the area of law enforcement while at the same time increasing protection for victims?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the causes of absconding. we must now face our challenges. it is important to point out once again that it is not the european countries that are hosting the largest number of refugees. that is why it is intolerable that people risk their lives on the way to europe and all too often lose their lives. we need new approaches now to offer shelter to people fleeing war and persecution. fighting criminals yes! but if i want to have no more rescuers at all, then we should open more safe routes to europe. so far, it's for the resettlement. but it is voluntary, and many member states are not participating, some taking just a handful of refugees. we therefore need more solidarity overall, a better, fairer distribution of refugees in all our member states. we therefore need a binding distribution key to ensure that the member states which have so far avoided their responsibilities are also adequately involved. i would like to mention one thing: i believe that a distribution key would not only help to relieve countries like greece or italy, but it would also help countries like germany and sweden if all the member states finally shared in a distribution according to their own responsibilities. in conclusion, we need legal ways of getting into europe, and we must also think about this. (the president cut the speaker off)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the commissioner avramopoulos' remarks did not satisfy me, on the contrary. they are regrettable, but the eu's asylum policy has indeed failed. it is hidden behind the more than 20 000 people who have died on the external borders just to come here. this is hidden behind the many relatives who fear for their missing and have called on the eu to finally take action and support the relatives so that they can find their people, that they can get information about them. this silence is inhuman, the asylum policy of the eu and the member states is inhuman! i say that the eu must once again become the leader of a humane asylum policy, not its obstacle. we do not need triton, we need a european mare nostrum to save people. asylum policy is always humane where the dublin principle is broken and abolished. the member states must assume joint and binding responsibility for refugees and create fair and humane prospects. that is what we need to talk about now, not frontex! ladies and gentlemen, the right of asylum is one of the most important achievements since the second world war, because millions of people were denied asylum and handed over to the nazis. asylum is an individual right, inalienable. that is what we must defend, and i would like to hear you say that, commissioner.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not europe cannot ignore it, and we cannot ignore the fact that people are drowning in the mediterranean. these are people who have had to flee from war, from persecution, from discrimination, people who very often suffer the consequences of europe's action or inaction. you're about to embark on an incredibly dangerous journey. why would you do that? because we're not giving them a choice. because we leave them no choice but to trust the smugglers. we're the accomplices of the smugglers. we are giving the smugglers the opportunity to exploit the situation of asylum seekers and to blackmail them, because we are closing the door to europe. if we really want to do something about the smugglers, we must finally open up legal, safe routes to europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are talking today about migration to the eu and not about political asylum and persecution. i'm not talking about that right now. pope francis said this morning: 'we cannot accept that the mediterranean sea becomes a vast graveyard' and 'europe can cope with the problems of immigration if it helps to develop the countries of origin of migrants'. it is necessary to deal with the causes and not the consequences. peter scholl-latour said we cannot save calcutta by taking calcutta with us. the cause of migration is world poverty. the un estimates that four billion people in the world live on less than two dollars a day. as a result, thousands of people are fleeing and dying in the mediterranean. this is a tragedy, and we have to stop it. if we can give hope to the people in their countries, they will not have to board boats, leave their homes and families. aid to the local population saves lives. let us help the poor so that they do not become migrants!
- as i have already announced, i can really only give the floor to five speakers. we have a lot more verbal messages. i also took into account the fact that i had to withdraw the speakers from several groups because they had exceeded their time.
a writer. - mr president, i have to go. i want to start by saying that i understand that you have to limit speaking time. but i would be happy if this strict observance of speaking time were to apply to everyone. subject: the spanish government is currently planning a change in the law to legalise direct deportation in the border area of ceuta and melilla. we all know the images of rubber bullets being fired from the coast of ceuta at refugees with only life-support tyres, people panicking and drowning. we are reminded of the images of melilla - we have all seen the film, i think - where a man was beaten and carried back to the moroccan side without his rights being respected. this approach has been strongly criticised by both mrs malmström and the european commissioner for human rights. it can't be that at our borders in the middle of europe, because the whole fence is spanish territory people are treated like this. we've heard a lot about dignity this morning. but human dignity is indivisible, and it is not limited to european citizens. the amendment could therefore now be incorporated into the spanish security law. the european commission is now called upon to do everything in its power to prevent this change in legislation. the amendment is not only contrary to article 13 of the spanish constitution, it is also contrary to the european charter of fundamental rights and the geneva convention on refugees. ladies and gentlemen, the way we deal with migration and asylum, the way we talk about migrants, is no longer sustainable. we need a change in our policies, and we need those changes now.
author. - mr president, ‘hot returns’ are an illegal practice, and this is not going to change simply by changing a law. the spanish state is knowingly acting in breach of european and international law by pushing people back through the doors in the fences of ceuta and melilla. international borders are established by international treaties. it is not up to the spanish government to simply decide where jurisdiction applies and where it does not. the territory between the fences, as well as spanish territorial waters, clearly belongs to spanish territory. the euʼs asylum law, and notably the reception directive, clearly also refers to territorial waters. the eu law and the european convention and international refugee law all forbid returning people without checking, on a case-by-case basis, whether those people are in need of international protection. likewise, ‘hot returns’ are in breach of the principle of non-refoulement, which is a key principle of international law as well as of european law, and the spanish government cannot simply ignore this. but it is not enough to simply look at spain here. ceuta and melilla are part of spain, but they are also part just as much of europe. spanish borders are european borders, and the refugees and migrants there merit european attention and european solidarity. what happens in spain, what happens at the borders of europe, is the responsibility of all of us, and we cannot simply ignore it. the rule of law has to apply to everybody, be they citizens of the european union, of spain or of any other country, or be they refugees and migrants who come to europe to look for protection.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not the commission proposal came rather late, as the european parliament had already called for a follow-up strategy in 2011. i have to admit, what's on the table isn't really a strategy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. just one example: over 80% of cases of depression occur in working age. one in ten employees is absent from work because of depression. we need education and prevention programmes. safety and health at work must be taken seriously. as legislators, we have a duty to ensure that all who work are healthy. we have to protect her. i am also concerned that small and mediumsized enterprises may be exempted from certain provisions because of the need to reduce bureaucracy. it is said that this will increase competitiveness. what is not mentioned is that the burden and consequences are then shifted from the companies to the people, to society. we believe that smes should be better supported in their prevention and implementation. it's better than taking risks.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. working together to improve working conditions in the eu agreed! will we also succeed in taking the lead in health and safety worldwide? is that too high? to my colleagues on the far right: we need more europe. 3 million workers are injured at work and 4 000 die each year. you can see the importance of this issue. the 1989 framework directive was a breakthrough in the harmonization of working conditions in the member states - that was a long time ago. we now need a new strategic framework, the right approach, and we have said in the field of employment: we need the yes to new objectives, the yes to reasonable timing and, above all, the yes to cooperation with the social partners. small businesses are the most in need of action. the size of the company is a key factor in employee risk. in particular, compliance tends to be low in micro-enterprises, mainly because of high costs. i am in favour of not creating a new bureaucracy, but of supporting the companies in the concrete protection of workers, of adapting legislation and then of putting smes at the centre of the 2016 review, so that we can finally ensure that concrete measures are effective.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not the directive has been in force for over a decade now, and yet there are still problems with its implementation in the member states. i thank you for your willingness to take up this subject actively. because discrimination in the workplace is particularly serious. the dark figure is still very high. recent data from the european union agency for fundamental rights show that 82% of those who experienced discrimination did not report the case. either because they were not informed about their rights, or because they were afraid of a dispute with their employer, or because they were also afraid of the cost of a legal dispute. there must be no discrimination. it is our duty to do everything we can to prevent this from happening in europe! that is why we need clear common definitions of what constitutes discrimination. and indirect discrimination in particular is often difficult to prove. we need education, information and appropriate punishment. the member states must be more ambitious. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. i hope we can go a long way with you, mrs thyssen. i'm counting on your word.
member of the commission. - mr president, i am very glad to have the chance to make this statement on the eu-wide stress tests and the comprehensive assessment. together they have delivered the most stringent scrutiny that european banks have ever faced. the adverse stress test scenario was the most severe anywhere in the world. this has required a huge investment. over 6 000 officials and experts worked on this project at its height, but the result was worth it because it has given us a health check of the european banking system, which enjoys broad international credibility. overall, the results confirm the significant improvements there have been in the strength of european banks in the past six years. the capital ratios of eu banks are now at around 12%. capitalisation levels are on a par with us banks. between 2008 and 2013, more than eur 200 billion of capital was raised by the 130 banking groups participating in the full comprehensive assessment, and a further eur 57 billion has been added since january 2014 alone. as a result, our banks are much better placed to withstand financial shocks than they were before the crisis; and the rigour and transparency of the exercise mean that these results are credible across the world. this will, in turn, reassure investors about the quality of eu banks’ balance sheets, help restore confidence, and allow banks to carry out their core function: lending to the economy. some banks still have work to do to strengthen their positions. the tests were carried out on the basis of the situation at the end of 2013 and identified a capital shortfall of eur 25 billion for 25 banks. taking into account capital raised in 2014, this shortfall falls to eur 10 billion affecting only 14 banks. when adjustments are made to take account of additional capital available, two of these 14 banks do not need to proceed with capital-raising. one is in the process of being resolved. to protect taxpayers, the first port of call to address capital shortfalls should be private sources, and the remaining 11 banks therefore have a short window to raise money on the market. should a public capital injection be necessary, it will be subject to state aid rules, as set out in the 2013 banking communication; and these rules require burden-sharing from shareholders and junior debt-holders before any public support is provided. stress tests are now part of the european supervisory toolbox. they must be used regularly and in a robust manner to provide a clear and accurate picture of the robustness of our banking system, to detect vulnerabilities and to pave the way for timely intervention. the comprehensive assessment also marks a turning point for the supervision of eurozone banks. on 4 november, the baton passed from national supervisors to the single supervisory mechanism, and i shall work closely with ms nouy and other key players in the ssm to ensure the success of this change. we have entered a new chapter in our efforts to make the eu banking sector healthy, resilient and transparent. we have much better capitalised banks, we have exacting rules and processes for their oversight, we have new tools to resolve banks in a crisis, and we have a powerful and independent new banking supervisor in the eurozone. now i hope we can build on these foundations and start to turn the page on the financial crisis, focusing on the pressing challenges of regenerating growth and investment. the g20 in brisbane emphasised the need for a comprehensive programme to restore sustainable economic growth. this is the priority of the new commission, reflected in our investment initiative and the capital markets union, which will promote non-bank sources of finance. bank lending, though, remains the principal funding mechanism for european businesses, and i believe that the stress test and the comprehensive assessment should make us feel more confident that our banking system is now better placed to play its full role in supporting economic growth.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. the balance sheet test took place when the ssm was still at a preliminary stage. the existing structures of the european central bank have therefore continued to play a special role. of course, that has to change. the ssm has a duty to institutionalise itself in order to maintain the necessary separation between monetary policy and supervision. critical remarks are certainly appropriate in the test, for example on the communication of the requirements catalogue, the involvement of external consultants and the arrangements with the national level. however, the balance sheet test has remained within expectations and is a good basis for the launch of the new supervisory structures. many financial institutions have already significantly strengthened their capital base. the risk awareness has increased significantly, and finally we have to return to the idea that risks are responsible where they are taken. the balance sheet test was a first step. but what is more important is how the ssm can establish itself in the coming months. the test must be followed up with the right conclusions. the capital plans of institutions in difficulty need to be subject to strict, non-political scrutiny. a strong and credible supervision must have a range of options. however, there is no exemption for this. the legislative requirements must continue to be the norm. democratic legitimacy is essential. the european parliament will certainly use its - i might say - hard-won control rights. we are very concerned about the cooperation with the national supervisory authorities. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the banking sector is not left behind. it would be a bad development if there were competition between supervisors at the expense of the banks. this is why supervisory structures must remain consistent and predictable. specific supervision according to business model is appropriate. the balance sheet has now been audited. the review of the supervisory mechanism has, however, only just begun.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i'm not going anywhere. the german chancellor promised after the g20 summit in brisbane that taxpayers would never again be liable for zombie banks. the eu is making a similar promise. excuse me, but this is a popular misrepresentation. the resolution fund will be 55 billion euros over eight years. we have pumped over 1.6 trillion euros into the banks since the crisis in the eu alone. taxpayers in the eu continue to be liable for gambling banks that do not lend for investment but are too big and too connected to fail. yesterday the financial times reported that the financial lobby is raising a storm against the separation of the banking sector from the investment banking sector. you wrote a letter to lord hill, not to us as members of parliament. these banksters are weak. they're afraid of the market economy. deutsche bank and co. want to gamble, and if it goes wrong, they play state bank. the argument that financial regulation would hamper lending, which is repeatedly made, is also not correct. it's austerity: if public investment, if wages, if pensions fall, then companies will not ask for loans for investment. the stress test is not a warning. shadow banks were not detected. the crisis scenario was milder than the last crisis. deflation was ignored. the networking of the banking sector is also important. for example, when institutions dump bad paper in fire sales, it affects other solvent institutions. the banks continued to work with the internal risk models that had failed so badly in the crisis. i fear conflicts of interest at the ecb. as the supervisor and lender of last resort, it will be subject to permanent conflicts of interest. the ecb could now use the purchase of junk loans, so-called asset-backed securities, to repair the 25 banks that failed the test. so far, at least, the ecb has not denied this. i would also like to know how the european commission's position is to encourage banks to dump their scrap at the ecb. instead, we need real structural reforms in the banking sector, such as the strict separation of investment banking and the drying up of shadow banking.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. lord hill, it's very good that this stress test was done. but it would be foolish to trust that this stress test has now shown the banks to be crisis-proof. because there's only one adverse scenario that's been tested. the events that led to the great crisis of 2008 and 2009 have not been tested. the failure of a systemically important bank, in the case of the collapse of an american bank, this scenario was not included in any stress test. we don't know the secondary effects that occur when a systemically important bank fails. we have no guarantee that we will not face a similar crisis, if only the scenario we have already experienced is repeated. we need to think of the stress test as a starting point, as an exercise that needs to be repeated over and over again in different variations. but we must not, under any circumstances, rely on the european banking system being stable today.
member of the commission. - mr president, i am grateful for the opportunity to discuss ecb sanctions and ecb statistical information, and i would like to congratulate ms swinburne and mr gualtieri on their work. the ecb sanctions recommendation is important because it is part of implementing the banking union, and we need it because it will give the ecb the means to enforce eu banking law and its decisions. so the commission fully supports the objectives of the ecb recommendation. since sanctions can have a major financial and reputational impact on banks and can be subject to legal challenge, the rules should be clear and consistent and provide legal certainty. so the commission has no serious concerns with the approach taken by the ecb in its recommendation and by parliament in its opinion. the commissionʼs legal services have, however, detected two legal inconsistencies between the ecb recommendation and parliament’s draft opinion, on the one hand, and the regulation on the single supervisory mechanism (ssm) on the other. one of those points relates to a legal-base issue and concerns the power to sanction not only the ecbʼs own decisions and regulations, but also directly-applicable union law, and the other point refers to the publication of sanctions. the ecb and parliament’s opinion, as we just heard, proposed to grant the ecb the flexibility to delay publishing sanctions until after any appeal has been concluded. personally, i understand the logic of that approach and i can see why the ecb might want this discretion. there is, however, a legal inconsistency with the ssm regulation, which states that the ecb shall publish a sanction whether there has been an appeal or not. i think, therefore, it is worth having a look at this point in order to try to resolve it in a common-sense way. in terms of next steps, the commission will adopt its own opinion in the weeks to come, and we will continue to work with the council, the ecb and parliament to ensure that the ecb possesses all the tools necessary for the effective enforcement of the applicable eu banking rules. as far as statistical data is concerned, the commission issued its opinion on 13 october. we welcome the ecb’s proposal to align the regulation on the collection of statistical information to the central bank’s new competences in the area of prudential supervision of credit institutions. the proposed changes will enable the transmission of confidential statistical information between all authorities responsible for supervision and macro-prudential oversight. it will also minimise the reporting burden on undertakings by ensuring that data needs to be collected only once, so we welcome the report of the european parliament and we agree with parliament’s view expressed in the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) report on the confidentiality of statistical information and are happy with what they propose in this respect.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not the epp group naturally welcomes today's debate on the clarification of the competences of the ecb and the ssm in the field of statistical requirements and sanctions. the ecb and the ssm cannot operate here as they wish. the econ committee has already made its position known and i can say that we parliamentarians will also exercise our control function on these two points. in the case of statistical requirements, the ecb must ensure that confidential data remain confidential. the epp would like to express its concern about the extent to which the ecb's data rights could be extended. proportionality is an important issue here. it is necessary to ensure that reporting requirements do not become dominant, especially with regard to small and medium-sized institutions. we do not need additional separate data collection centres if the national authorities collect the relevant data anyway. the duplication of reporting pathways must be prevented. clear structures are important and the basis for data collection and analysis to work well. what we have decided as legislators in the sectoral directives must be taken into account and must not be left to the ecb to decide. this must also apply to the scope of the reporting and to the reporting rhythms. as regards the sanctions, we would like to stress the importance of cooperation with the national authorities. the ecb and the ssm shall be bound by confidentiality. publications are then possible once the legal remedies have been exhausted. i would also like to emphasize the international component. the question of the level playing field in relation to the proportionality of fines also plays a role. the econ committee has called for an international exchange to take place on this subject.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my dear kay swinburne! we are in broad agreement on these reports. there wasn't much conflict. thank you for your cooperation. i have two main points to make. the first point concerns statistics for the common supervision of the european central bank. the problem here seems to me to be less in legislation than in practice. i wonder whether it is appropriate that the ecb now creates a sort of credit register for up to 50,000 euros and then has data on every single credit transaction for every small bank. i wonder who is actually paying attention to the principle of proportionality there. we have - mr balz has already mentioned this - rather problems with multiple reports and a tendency to over-zealousness. perhaps the commission could look at this and see whether it is in line with the principles of proportionality. the sanctions, and that is the main point of contention we still have here: the question of whether sanctions should now be published directly, even if an objection is lodged, is a matter of principle, and our legal basis is actually very clear. from the point of view of the rule of law, it is actually a kind of pre-judgment, when one can no longer defend oneself against a sanction under the rule of law, since this sanction has already been imposed by publication. so we support in principle the epp's call that this should not happen. however, i would like to know from the commission whether they see a way of solving the problems with article 18 (6) of the ssm regulation? (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the question is not whether the euro is a yes or no question, but how the banking union will enable the european central bank to fulfil its role. to do this, it needs statistical material and to do this it must also be able to impose appropriate sanctions on the banks for which it has assumed supervisory tasks if the requirements of supervision are not met. so everything that national supervisors have done so far has to be transferred to the ecb for the banks that are under the control of the ecb. that is why the epp group welcomes the two proposals. i want to focus particularly on the subject of sanctions because i was allowed to work on it for my group. the point here is that we do not impose double sanctions - that is, publication obligations only after the legal process has been completed. i think that is normal, as is the case with national supervisory structures. secondly, we have to answer the exciting question of where the money goes. i am surprised that the resolution mechanism is now suddenly to be financed by sanctions. i would be glad if the colleagues who have asked for this would consider whether this is the purpose of this exercise. i can only point out that it will not help to fill the winding-up fund very quickly with a lot of money. the administrative sanctions in question are rarely of a high-contribution nature. we have also asked the epp group to have an international exchange, and i hope that the council will take up this particular issue.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is nothing wrong with this report in supporting the banking union, in supporting the european central bank's supervision of the main banks in the euro zone. but that's the point. the question is: should an institution responsible for the supply of money also have oversight of the credit system? aren't there conflicts of interest building up there? the fact that there are such conflicts of interest is already seen in the way the european central bank is now conducting monetary policy by providing liquidity at the long end of the yield curve by buying abs. we have an institution which is responsible for our money, for our entire financial and credit system and for providing mediumsized enterprises with adequate credit. this is a super-authority that is not subject to democratic control. this is something that should not be tolerated in europe.
blue-card question. – very briefly, i must say that i am a bit fed up here. we are having a debate about two specific pieces of law, and yet some members explain to us why the euro is not good; another complains about the troika; and you give us general statements about the ecb. can we not stick to good parliamentary discussion? we have had all the debates about the banking union, the euro and so on. can you not stick to the topic of this debate? i must say that i am really annoyed about this. you must decide whether you want to be part of this debate here or not.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the president of the commission on the commission's employment, growth and investment package (2014/2975 ((rsp)).
president of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, i addressed this house just over a month ago and promised to present an ambitious investment plan before christmas. one month later and christmas has come early. i am here to deliver on my promise. i am doing it here at the european parliament because this is the institutional place where important events have to happen. today europe is turning a page. after years of fighting to restore our fiscal credibility and to promote reform, today we are adding the third point of a virtuous triangle: an ambitious yet realistic investment plan for europe. europe needs a kick-start, and today the commission is applying the jump leads. investing in europe means much more than figures, projects, money and rules. it is about people – mainly about those amongst our citizens who are unemployed. we need to send a message to the people of europe and to the rest of the world: europe is back in business. this is not the moment to look back. investment is about the future. of course, we should never neglect the sacrifices that many in europe have made over the past six years to overcome the crisis, nor should we stop the push to bring down barriers, open up markets and reform what does not work in our economies. these are necessary but not sufficient conditions for growth. yes, we need structural reforms to modernise and preserve our social market economy. yes, we need fiscal responsibility to restore confidence and the sustainability of our public finances and to complete this virtuous omne trium perfectum we now need to boost investment. no tree can grow on soil and air alone. the investment plan we are presenting today is the watering can. for the first time, the commission is presenting all three components of europe’s future economic success together – not pitched one against the other but grouped in one single simple message, namely that europe can offer hope both to its future generations and to the rest of the world as a promising, attractive hub for jobs, growth and investment. why are we doing this? first, because not only are we faced with a serious investment gap but we are caught in an investment trap. when we talk to investors, they all agree that europe is an attractive place to invest in. but when i look at the figures, they tell a totally different story. investment levels in the european union are down to eur 370 billion below the historical pre-crisis norms. while investment is taking off in the us, europe is lagging behind. why? because investors lack confidence, credibility and trust. secondly, because we are confronted with a major paradox. despite the huge liquidity in the world’s money markets and corporate bank accounts, investment in europe is not rebounding. thirdly, because our public resources are stretched – our debt levels have increased from 60% of our gdp to 90% in the space of just a few years. public expenditure already represents close to 50% of the european union’s gdp. what we need is a smart use of public money geared to unlocking investment. public expenditure should be used for what it is best at doing: funding our schools and welfare systems, not servicing our debt. today we are responding to these european pathologies and keeping our eye on the one ball that matters: the real economy. this is not the time for national, political or ideological fights. it is the time for a major political and social consensus, a grand bargain to put europe back to work. i often hear that we need ‘fresh’ money, but what i believe we really need is a fresh start and fresh investment. others say that we need more debt. we do not. national budgets are already stretched. the european union operates on balanced budgets, and the abundant liquidity can allow europe to grow without creating new debt. we will not betray our children and grandchildren and write more cheques that they will ultimately have to pay off. we will not betray the rules of the stability and growth pact that we have agreed jointly. this is a matter of credibility. however, if member states chip in capital to the fund, we will not take these contributions into account in our assessments under the stability pact. what we are going to do is set up the right system that will use available public money to leverage additional capital that will never otherwise be mobilised. every public euro mobilised can generate additional investment that would not have happened otherwise, and it can create jobs. we will need to look carefully at projects. destinations for the fresh investment drive should be attractive, free of regulatory burdens and linked to economic reality, not political expedience. let me be clear about one thing: the money we are putting forward today comes on top of what already exists. it comes on top of the eur 630 billion that is about to be unlocked from the structural and investment funds at national and regional level. it comes on top of what the european investment bank has already been able to do so far. after the capital increase of eur 10 billion, the european investment bank was shipping eur 180 billion to the real economy. it comes on top of all the existing programmes which are already investing in infrastructure, innovation and european small and medium-sized enterprises. perhaps most importantly, it comes on top of what member states can do to help themselves, for member states must also support the investment environment through better use of public money and a greater commitment to structural reforms. let me explain my vision for where this money should go. i have a vision of schoolchildren in thessaloniki walking into a brand new classroom decked out with computers. i have a vision of european hospitals saving lives with state-of-the-art medical equipment. i have a vision of a french commuter being able to charge his electric car along the motorway in the same way we fill up with petrol today. households and companies want to benefit from technological progress and are crying out for action to become more energy-efficient. our energy sector needs to interconnect networks and markets, integrate renewable sources of energy, and diversify our sources of supply. our transport sector has to modernise its infrastructure, reduce congestion and improve trade connections. our environment needs better waste, recycling and water treatment facilities. we need far-reaching and faster broadband and smarter data centres across europe, and we need to invest in our education and innovation systems that are often underfunded and less equipped than those of our key competitors. investing in people – that is what the social market economy is about. the needs we are facing are vast. this is the challenge of a generation. europe will have to face it head-on. how is this going to work? money will not fall from the sky. we do not have a money-printing machine. we will have to attract money and make it work for us. today we are setting up the new architecture which will make this possible. the key is to provide a risk-bearing capacity that can unlock additional investment. our plan is built on three main pillars. first, we are creating a new european fund for strategic investments, guaranteed with public money from the eu budget and the european investment bank. the fund will be able to mobilise eur 315 billion over the next few years, and yet some say this is not enough. i have to remind you that this is the greatest effort in recent eu history to mobilise the eu budget to trigger additional investment – and without changing the rules. i know some of you are worried about the impact on the research and infrastructure allocations. you fear that redirecting money from the horizon 2020 and connecting europe budget lines will mean that money is lost. but this is not the case. every euro from this programme paid into the fund creates eur 15 for those very same research and infrastructure projects. we are not just moving money around; we are maximising its input. if member states step up to the plate and contribute to the fund, then the knock-on effect of this significant amount will be even bigger. herr präsident, meine sehr verehrten damen und herren! die zweite komponente unseres programms ist folgende: wir schaffen eine glaubwürdige projektpipeline, flankiert von einem programm für technische hilfe, um die investitionen in ausgereifte, wachstumsfördernde projekte von europäischer bedeutung zu lenken. es ist nicht der job von politikern, projekte auszuwählen. wir sollten bescheidener sein. es ist die aufgabe der fachleute, die über die notwendige erfahrung und das einschlägige know how verfügen, dies zu tun. dem fonds wird ein investitionsausschuss aus experten zur seite stehen, der jedes projekt aus wirtschaftlicher und gesellschaftlicher perspektive bewertet und prüft, welchen mehrwert es für die europäische union hat. die dritte komponente unseres programms ist ein ehrgeiziger fahrplan, mit dem wir europa für investoren attraktiver machen wollen. dazu werden wir – dies ist existenziell wichtig – bürokratie abbauen und regulatorische engpässe beseitigen. es geht nämlich nicht nur um die finanzielle ebene. es geht auch und vor allem um die richtigen rahmenbedingungen auf der regulierungsebene. die europäische investitionsbank hat in den letzten jahren exzellente arbeit geleistet, und ich bin froh, sie als zentralen akteur und partner in diese neuen investitionsprogramme einbinden zu können. das triple-a der bank, die übrigens nicht risikoscheu ist, ist eine europäische trumpfkarte, die wir jetzt noch besser für europa einsetzen werden. ohne die europäische investitionsbank wäre es nicht zu diesem investitionsprogramm gekommen. ich möchte mich bei dem präsidenten der bank, werner hoyer, sehr herzlich bedanken für eine vorzügliche zusammenarbeit in den letzten wochen, ich müsste eigentlich sagen monaten. die kommission ist erst seit drei wochen im amt. wir sind in der lage, heute das investitionsprogramm vorzustellen. aber werner hoyer und ich haben uns schon im juli – schon vor meiner wahl zum kommissionspräsidenten – intensiv in dieser sache ausgetauscht, und ich bin ihm zu großem dank verpflichtet und im übrigen auch froh, dass er mit der erlaubnis des herrn präsidenten dieser sitzung des plenums beiwohnen kann. wir haben, meine sehr verehrten damen und herren, noch einige wichtige schritte vor uns, die wir aber sofort angehen müssen, denn wir stehen erst am anfang. deshalb möchte ich heute einen appell an alle richten, die europa wieder auf einen pfad kräftigen wachstums zurückführen wollen. die mitgliedstaaten sollten dem fonds beitreten und damit seine leistungsfähigkeit weiter verstärken. auch die mitgliedstaaten haben pflichten zu erfüllen, wenn es um die wiederankurbelung der investitionen in der europäischen union geht. jeder für diesen fonds bereitgestellte euro aus öffentlichen mitteln kann 15 euro an investitionen mobilisieren. im gegenzug verspreche ich ihnen, dass diese kapitalbeiträge an den fonds bei der überprüfung der öffentlichen haushalte auf der grundlage des stabilitäts- und wachstumspakts nicht eingerechnet werden. wieso sollten mitgliedstaaten einzahlen, wenn sie nicht mit sicherheit vorausberechnen können, welche rückflüsse es in ihr land gibt? das ist ganz einfach: mehr wachstum in spanien ist gut für mehr wachstum in frankreich. mehr wachstum in frankreich ist gut für mehr wachstum in italien. mehr wachstum in südeuropa ist gut für das wachstum in der bundesrepublik deutschland. man sollte endlich zur kenntnis nehmen, dass wir eine schicksalsgemeinschaft sind, und das impliziert solidarität mit allen und allen gegenüber. bei dem anvisierten investitionsvolumen von 315 milliarden euro handelt es sich nicht um eine obergrenze. wenn sich der fonds bewährt – und das wird er, da bin ich mir sicher –, dann können wir sogar darüber hinausgehen. wir brauchen sowohl im europäischen parlament als auch im europäischen rat die breitestmögliche unterstützung für dieses investitionsprogramm, seinen inhalt, seinen aufbau, seine ziele. wir brauchen in europa eine koalition der investitionswilligen. monsieur le président, mesdames et messieurs, je compte notamment sur l'engagement de cette assemblée pour accélérer l'adoption de la législation nécessaire à la mise en place du fonds. j'inviterai mes collègues au conseil européen à prendre le même engagement. nous devons rendre le fonds opérationnel d'ici au mois de juin de l'année prochaine afin qu'il puisse commencer à produire des résultats. le parlement européen, lui, est un partenaire essentiel pour aider l'europe à renouer avec la croissance. nous, la commission, nous serons responsables devant vous. des représentants de haut niveau de ces nouveaux fonds devront régulièrement vous rendre compte des activités du fonds. je veillerai également à ce que les vice-présidents et les membres de la commission chargés des différents domaines d'activité du fonds ainsi que des représentants de la banque européenne d'investissement vous fassent régulièrement rapport, ainsi qu'à vos commissions compétentes. toutefois, permettez-moi d'être très clair. nous avons besoin d'un aval et d'un soutien politiques. nous n'avons pas besoin d'une politisation du plan. pas de jeu politique avec les projets, pas de liste nationale de vœux. il s'agit d'un important test de crédibilité qui doit être convaincant pour les investisseurs privés et les marchés financiers mondiaux. là encore, je compte sur le professionnalisme, l'expérience et l'expertise de notre banque européenne d'investissement. le plan n'est pas un guichet automatique, et le fonds ne sera pas une banque. nous avons besoin d'un mécanisme souple. nous avons besoin d'un mécanisme qui soit simple d'utilisation pour les investisseurs et les autorités publiques, d'un mécanisme qui puisse évoluer et se développer au fil du temps, qui ne soit pas limité par la logique de cloisonnement, de pré-affectation thématique, sectorielle ou géographique, d'un mécanisme crédible qui s'appuie sur des structures établies garantissant la responsabilité, d'un mécanisme qui drainera vers les pays qui ont le plus souffert de la crise l'essentiel des investissements envisagés. ce que nous proposons ici ne peut se faire qu'à l'échelon de l'union européenne. moins d'un mois après l'entrée en fonction de ma commission, nous prenons nos responsabilités et nous agissons. j'invite à présent les autres à faire de même et à montrer qu'ils sont, eux aussi, prêts à jouer le jeu. je vous le dis dès aujourd'hui, si notre plan fonctionne, et il fonctionnera, il sera reconduit pour les années 2018, 2019 et 2020. mr president, this is an investment offensive that optimises our economic policy. we are focusing on long-term, large-scale european investment to create jobs. we are also targeting small and medium-sized enterprises – europeʼs job creators – to give a boost to the real economy. we are turning a corner, completing fiscal responsibility and structural reform with innovative investment plans and instruments. the ground-breaking investment plan, mobilising all levels of government, is the missing part of the puzzle, the third point in the virtuous triangle. the omne trium perfectum made whole. we will stand tall on three pillars: money, projects and tools to create the right business environment. we are offering hope to millions of europeans, disillusioned after years of stagnation. yes, europe can still become the epicentre of a major investment drive. yes, europe can grow again, and yes, the european social model will persevere. now that we are going in the right direction there will be no turning back. (applause)
the commission has already done so. i would like to thank you very much for the honour of speaking in this house today and for commenting on the programme presented by the commission. i'll say right now that i wholeheartedly support this. i will propose to the governing bodies of the bank to support the plan presented by president juncker just a few minutes ago and to take the necessary decisions in the bank's organs in the coming weeks and months. that, of course, will then lead to the presentation in the council of finance and economic ministers in december and to the presentation in the european council in december as well. we are firmly committed to tackling europe's investment gap head-on. at the beginning of the year, the bank carried out a study on investment gaps in europe and contributed to the awareness that, for seven years now, europe has been lagging behind the 2007 investment figures by at least 15% and sometimes 20%, and this is persisting. beyond that, for almost 15 years europe has been suffering from an innovation gap in comparison to our main competitors. our main competitors are not within the union, they are outside, and compared to some of the most advanced of them, we have been trailing for 15 years by almost 1.5% of gdp per year behind their expenditure on innovation, research and development. therefore, it is necessary to take action, and therefore i proposed to ecofin to first make a study of whether the allegation that investment opportunities do not exist is really true. we had a taskforce which concluded its work only a few days ago. it clearly shows that, although there might be quite a bit of wishful thinking in these lists as well, projects do exist, as do project ideas and project needs, so the question remains: why are these gaps not being filled by the private sector and by all those who can contribute to filling them? what are the hurdles to investment? they can be on the risk side - we are going to address it. they can be on the regulatory side, they can be on the legislative side, and i am very happy to hear that the president of the commission is resolved to tackle these issues as well, and, of course, the question of confidence, which is decisive for any investment decision in europe and beyond. we must therefore put things in sequence: identification of the investment gap, identification of the reasons for these investment gaps not being filled, and then the question of the instruments we are going to use. we can look back at a history of the last seven years in the crisis. since 2007, the eu bank has provided more than eur 500 billion for investment across europe, and by the end of next year we will have delivered eur 180 billion of new investment, following a capital increase recommended by the european council in 2012. i wasn't sure in 2012, when i promised the european council, that we would make 18 times as much out of these 10 billion euros, but now i can tell you that probably, when i come back next year in early december, we will have overshot this target of 180 billion euros of additional investment in europe by far. so what's the issue today? before the crisis, projects were financed directly through public budgets, or the public sector would assume risks to catalyze private support. capacity for public spending for such projects is now reduced, leading to underinvestment and jeopardising long-term competitiveness. however, in contrast to the darkest days of the sovereign debt crisis, liquidity is no longer an issue, and money is available for the safest projects. nevertheless, some segments of the market are risk-averse partly due to new capital and lending standards and in many countries, sme access to finance remains a concern. by the way, this is a case where one can show that one-size-fits-all does not hold, because access to finance for smes is quite differentiated in the member states of the european union, and we have to address it in a differentiated manner. it is essential to tackle these market failures that continue to prevent investment in higher-risk infrastructure projects. these will be addressed as part of the investment plan by the new fund which the president of the commission has just introduced. i will propose to ecofin and the european council that the eib contributes eur 5 billion to the new initiative. that will come together with the eur 16 billion coming from the eu budget, to be confirmed, of course, by parliament and the council. the new proposal allows the eib to increase support for risky and more capital-intensive projects. it will be set up in the coming weeks and start to deliver in 2015 using structures already in place. this is the advantage. i am aware that you will have to take key decisions in this context, as will the council, so it will take time until all the new structures are in place. the eu bank is ready to bridge that time gap so that we can start delivering in early 2015. to be clear: this new engagement will not impact eib engagement outside the european union, where the eib is a valued source of finance and expertise, supporting projects around the world. ten percent of our business goes outside the european union, and we are a very necessary and valuable partner supporting the european union in its foreign, development, humanitarian, energy and climate policies and other areas. we believe that the proposed initiative can make a real difference to unlocking additional investment in europe. the european investment bank is aware that this is not the silver bullet, but it represents the eib's concrete contribution to addressing europe's most pressing investment needs that will ensure that, once again, we can make a difference. (applause) i would like to thank
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president of the commission, mr hoyer, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we made a promise to jean-claude juncker when he was elected and we made a promise during the election campaign to put the citizens at the centre of the debate here in the european parliament. i would therefore like to emphasize the point made by mr juncker, namely that we are not talking about abstract issues today, but about the unemployed in europe, about entrepreneurs who want to invest, about the people of europe - about very practical problems. i would like to pay tribute to the commission for having the proposal for this investment pact within three weeks. i would also like to thank the commission for being here today in full. this shows the unity of the institution. i would also like to say explicitly that the fact that the presentation of the investment package, following yesterday's decision, is taking place today in the european parliament is a positive, a good signal. the epp group has had a number of points at the centre of its debate in recent weeks. the first key point was: mobilising private capital is better than creating new debt. this is the basic idea that has guided us over the last weeks and months, and i am grateful that it has been taken up. better spending the money we have, better spent that must drive us. the eib's experience in mobilising private capital is extremely helpful in this respect. the eib knows, mr hoyer, you know, the method we're using now has one or two questions. for example, the question of substitution. are projects already funded now being included in this package? it's not gonna do any good, so we'll have to be careful. and we also know, of course, that we do not want to replace private capital, private involvement, in highly secure areas, but we want to generate new investment. that is why there are still some questions to be clarified. we know that there are still some questions in the commission. the epp supports the idea that the project decision should be made by experts. but the criteria for the projects we are going to tackle, the framework conditions, we have to discuss and clarify politically. i would also like to say to the council that in order to get this idea of mobilising private capital through, i would appeal to the council to finally make a contribution and to end the blockade of budgetary discussions. we need a stable budget for 2015 so that the plan can be implemented. these are the points we see that need to be worked on and that we must tackle now. ladies and gentlemen, the second important point for the epp group is that money alone does not solve the problems. this was clearly stated by jean-claude juncker. investors are coming back to europe. if you look at the investment rates in europe today, you see that portugal is investing, ireland is investing. we went to latvia last week with the epp group there is also investment there! why is there investment in it today? because in these countries, structural reforms have been implemented in recent years, because they had the courage to adapt to globalization and change themselves as a society. that is why we in europe need to continue to have the courage to undertake these structural reforms, when it comes to the issues of state aid law, banking, equity regulation, competition law and the internal market. in the energy sector, we do not have a single market, which is why there is no investment. in the digital field, we have no single market, so there is no investment. these are our tasks in europe, but also at national level. if the legal proceedings in italy take as long as they do, it is not surprising that there is no investment. if the labour markets are too rigid, as in france, it is not surprising that investment is lacking. and when planning processes take months and years, as in my country, germany, it is not surprising that no investment is made. that is why everyone must now play their part in structural reforms. the third point, which is important for the epp in order to create a future for our continent, is one i would like to address briefly today. but it's important to us: fiscal stability is the basic condition for us to generate growth. if the confidence of the markets in the stability of national budgets were to be lost, if the crisis were to return, this would be the greatest damage to possible investment in europe. that's why we need credibility. jean-claude juncker has put forward a convincing proposal today. i would ask those who are already commenting to adopt a constructive approach. unfortunately, we often have the problem in europe that when someone has an idea, they put a proposal on the table, listen to the hesitators, the problem-solvers, those who can describe the problems, but unfortunately, we have too few of god on the pitch who say: that's a good suggestion, and i have a better idea, and i'd like to contribute to it. i ask for this constructive criticism, for this culture of confidence, of optimism, which we need in this area now. i would add to the council's point: if there is a discussion now in preparation for the european council in december and then perhaps comments such as 'this is too little, too little is being done', then i would also ask that europe observes its commitments. with our own power, we can handle the 315 billion. if anyone at national level, from the capitals, is asking for more, then they are invited to make further contributions. the project is open, and anyone can put more money on the table if they want to. i am not going to go into detail. the epp supports the proposal put forward by jean-claude juncker and the european commission. we want that go signal. we want europe to take off. today is a good day for europe! (applause from the centre)
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
in writing. the european investment plan, announced by eu commission president jean-claude juncker on 26 november 2014, is a figure of speech. it's already wrong in principle. the lack of investment is not the cause but the consequence of the crisis in the monetary and economic union. investors are not investing because the crisis countries in particular have lost their competitiveness because of the euro's excessive value for them. this is the fundamental problem in the eurozone. and the denial of this fact is the fundamental problem in trying to solve the crisis. but there is something else that is strange: it is a deliberate misinformation to the public that the size of the investment programme is eur 315 billion. the announced 'mobilization of funds for investment without public debt' is nothing more than the re-allocation of existing eu programmes. in fact, only 21 billion euro is available for 'strategic investment'. these are partly from the european investment bank but mostly from existing eu funds which would have been invested anyway. these will now simply be transferred from eu fund xy to the new juncker magic fund. mr juncker's magic formula is the 'factor 15'. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the european parliament, the council and the commission. 21 times 15 is 315. i'm not going to do it.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the council and the commission on the 2014 united nations climate change conference - cop 20, lima, perú (1-12 december 2014) (2014/2777 ((rsp)). before i address the council, i would like to inform all those who will be speaking that i will be forced to strictly enforce the time limits and will not be able to allow blue-card applications because at 12 noon the sakharov prize will be handed out. so, with so many speakers, there is a debate scheduled for an hour and a half and i must make sure that the time is respected. i ask all of you, the council and the commission to respect the deadlines.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very grateful to you for this opportunity to address the key issues before us in the run-up to the lima conference next week, which, as has been the case for years, will of course include representatives of the european parliament in the european union delegation. as you know, ladies and gentlemen, lima is the last important meeting of the year before the paris conference, at which we want and aim to have a global climate agreement for the period after 2020. first, i would like to remind you of the reasons why these commitments are so important. we all know that in order to stave off the oncoming climate change and its devastating consequences, the global temperature rise must remain below 2 degrees celsius above pre-industrial levels. to achieve this, global emissions must be reduced by 2050 from 40 to 70% of 2010 levels. the same emissions must reach near-zero or lower levels by 2100. in order to have an instrument for the period after 2020, we agreed in durban to draw up a new legal instrument within the framework of the existing un convention. i would now like to recall the most important tasks which we must carry out at the lima conference to make it a success and, above all, to prepare well for the global conference in paris next year: the commission will be able to identify the main elements on which we can reach agreement by 2015; agree on the essential requirements for initial information, the process for its communication and the subsequent examination and analysis of the various planned contributions established at national level; adequately address the issue of our 2020 mitigation ambitions. first of all, in lima, we have to agree on the essential elements of the 2015 agreement. mitigation (including the commitment cycle), adaptation, use of markets, financing, technologies, capacity building and transparency. we will thus be able to present a full draft negotiating text by may next year to start negotiations on the actual agreement, well in advance of the paris conference. the second point concerns the planned contributions established at national level, the so-called indcs. the 2015 agreement should provide for legally binding mitigation commitments for all parties. however, the level of ambition and the type of commitment will vary. the indcs should therefore allow each party to choose its own type of contribution and to define its own level of ambition in accordance with its national circumstances and capabilities. the possibility of different choices implies that the parties will have to provide sufficient information for their commitments to be understood and analysed to verify their compliance with the 2°c target. the lima conference should therefore provide guidance to the parties on the initial information to accompany the indcs and on the process to review and analyse this data in the coming year. as you know, the agreement on the horizon 2030 climate and energy policy framework reached by the european council last month is very significant. it was a big priority of our semester: we were determined to reach an important and ambitious agreement on combating climate change as the european union, to confirm the role played by the european union in the international climate negotiations. we have set ourselves the target of reducing our emissions by 40% by 2030 compared to 1990, in line with the longer-term target of reducing emissions by 80-95% by 2050. perhaps we realized, and perhaps the european public only realized the importance of this agreement a few days later, when much more media attention was given to the decision and announcement by china and the united states, when they announced their indcs. without knowing all the details it is rather difficult to assess them correctly, but the announcement itself at this early stage and a few weeks before the announcement of european union is for us in itself a very positive development in the run-up to the paris conference. the two largest emitters have sent a clear signal of their willingness to commit and reach an agreement in paris. thirdly, and finally, mr president, the lima conference should send a clear signal, building on the momentum of the un secretary-general's climate summit in september, to step up action in areas with high mitigation potential with positive consequences for development, growth and innovation.
member of the commission. - mr president, let me first thank you for the draft resolution on the lima conference and for your work and support for international climate negotiations. lima will be a milestone. progress in lima will be crucial to success in paris at cop 21, where we will adopt an internationally legally-binding agreement applicable to all parties. in that context lima must deliver three key outcomes. firstly, we should have a good understanding of the elements of a draft negotiating text of the 2015 agreement. secondly, we need to agree on the requirements for the way in which all parties are to present, early next year, their intended nationally determined contributions (indcs) to the new agreement. these contributions will express each party’s intended emission reduction effort, and they must be transparent, quantifiable and comparable. lima should also provide for an international process to consider and analyse the adequacy and ambition of indcs before paris. that process should aim to ensure that finalised emissions reductions commitments in the 2015 agreement are collectively sufficient to keep global average temperature increase below 2oc, and individually fair. and thirdly, we need to make progress on enhancing mitigation ambition also before 2020, so we remain on track to achieve the ‘below 2o c’ objective, which is crucial given that the 2015 agreement will not enter into force until 2020. the commission has been very active in driving european union action to make lima a success. my predecessor, connie hedegaard, has done a tremendous job reaching out to our key strategic partners through visits – to the united states, china and india – and through her engagement in plurilateral forums such as the major economies forum or the cartagena dialogue of progressive countries. i am personally committed to furthering and strengthening these dialogues and alliances. the european union has also actively engaged in climate-related outreach through the eeas and the member states’ embassies, and through putting climate on the agenda of summits and forums such as the g20. in the next thirteen months these efforts will continue and grow in importance. on 24 october the european council agreed on the 2030 targets of 40% greenhouse gas reductions. this puts the european union ahead of the curve and means we will be in a position to come forward with our indc by the first quarter of 2015. however, the european union only accounts for 10% of global emissions today. at least all the major and emerging economies must also come forward by the first quarter of 2015. the united states and china announcement earlier this month should show that the european union call is being answered by key players and hopefully will incite others to follow suit. there is also an urgent need to step up global ambition to cut greenhouse gas emissions before 2020 – to address the gap between current emission pledges and the reductions needed to keep global warming below 2oc. we need to promote strengthened collective efforts in the unfccc and other relevant forums such as the montreal protocol, the international maritime organisation and the international civil aviation organisation. the european union is on track to achieve emission reductions well beyond the current 20% target. we have also confirmed our conditional pledge to move to a 30% reduction, provided that other major emitting countries commit to comparable reduction targets. i look forward to working with my fellow commissioners, including vice-president mogherini and vice-president šefčovič, to ensure climate change is a top priority for all our external dialogue in the coming important months. this brings me to the issue of climate finance. the members of this house attach great importance to the question of scaling up climate finance to the usd 100 billion goal. i do too. let me underline that the european union and the member states have taken numerous initiatives to that end. finance to developing countries from the european union budget and the european development fund has steadily increased, achieving eur 900 million in 2013. this adds to the eur 8.7 billion of climate finance provided by the member states in 2013, which brings the total climate finance contribution by the european union and its member states to eur 9.6 billion in 2013. looking to the future, the multiannual financial framework, together with the european development fund, will provide eur 14 billion to support climate-relevant actions in developing countries in the period 2014 to 2020. this represents a significant effort from the european union. in relation to the green climate fund, the eu member states are major contributors. they have pledged over usd 3.8 billion to this fund, around 40% of the total pledges so far. finally, let me underline the important role the european parliament plays as we move towards paris. in lima i intend to make sure that the delegation of the european parliament is fully informed on the progress of the negotiations. speaking with one voice as the european union also means that parliament’s support for an ambitious agreement is crucial. i would like to thank you again for your interest in this question and look forward to a lively debate.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. i am glad that we have the opportunity to exchange views here today for the first time as a parliament. i've been doing this for many years, i was in rio for the first time in 1992. since then, i've seen a lot of bleak climate conferences. now, however, i am relatively hopeful that we are on a good track to paris. this is not only because the european union has presented a good result, but also because the americans and the chinese announced a change of direction at the ban ki-moon summit in new york. they haven't done it yet, we know that. but we've never experienced anything like this. i think of copenhagen, it was the darkest thing we've ever encountered. i think we have a good chance of being hopeful. this is partly because the moderate and sustainable industry is already well on the way to working in this direction. it helps, and we also know that american industry has long understood that there is money to be made in a low-carbon economy. but, ladies and gentlemen, in the next few months, the moment of truth will come. simply going to lima and saying we're going to reduce by 40%, that's not enough. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. now we must put a figure on the table - the commissioner has just mentioned this - so that we can then verify this figure in europe. in the end, we have to reach the 2-degree target, and if we don't get there, the numbers are useless. so after lima, there will be difficult negotiations. but that is the precondition for us to get a good result in paris. we are hopeful, mr president, because we have presented a good result.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i have several questions. on climate change, there is no g20, there is no g8, there seems to be a g2: the united states and china. in copenhagen, both blocked. now there's an opening for paris, but we know that's far from enough to meet the 2-degree celsius target. my question is: what coalitions does the eu want to forge in lima and paris so that we are not at the catering table, but are a frontline actor and really achieve an ambitious result? secondly, the financing of climate action. it's nice that we have 10 billion euros together. but we have promised 100 billion euros a year. there must be a new concept, new ideas about this. does the commission, does the council have any new ideas on how we can go from 10 to 100 billion? thirdly, i hear that there is talk of a 'paris alliance' for paris, not a legally binding treaty or a legally binding instrument, but a global deal where everyone puts something on the table. are we still committed as the eu to a legal instrument which also entails obligations? fourthly, we have learned from the ban ki-moon summit that there are other actors, above all the cities, the municipalities, but also the advanced industry. what is the eu's strategy to involve these actors? i believe that in the end, lima and paris are test cases for european diplomacy, not to be on the sidelines, but to be at the centre.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. every year in november we come here to discuss the cop resolution and the forthcoming cop conference. i find, again and again, that the spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. i would like to emphasize this again with an example: we can certainly do something internally in europe. parliament has done it, in percentages: 40% co2 reduction by 2030, 40% efficiency increase and then the 30% renewable energy target. but if we are going to legislate - and i mean the fuel quality directive - to ensure that the dirtiest form of fuel is eventually going to come to europe, namely tar sands - in alberta, a whole province is being plowed over - then we should think again about whether this is the right way to go. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fuel quality directive is not adopted in its present form, and that the commission is not obliged to take any further action.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. in the european union, we are responsible for about 10% of global co2 emissions. 40% of that is now to be saved, which is about 4% of global co2 emissions. we can be about that here in the european union. we have tried many times to reach an agreement with the big emitters, with the united states, china, russia and also india. in the end, kyoto was not worth the paper it was written on, and in copenhagen the european union really showed itself, as has rarely happened. we have a good example in germany of how co2 and climate policy cannot work: the hasty withdrawal from nuclear energy. at the same time, we are moving forward with lignite and coal, wind energy with a dubious climate balance and finally emissions trading, which has proven to be completely unnecessary. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left to the detriment of the environment.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. a report for the pentagon has identified climate change as a threat to u.s. national security. i think those are very clear words, and the pentagon is really not a green institution. that shows the scale of the challenge. so i think it is good that the european council has put forward a very ambitious target, at least in terms of co2 reduction targets. in the government statement to the german bundestag on 16 october, angela merkel said: 'in the negotiations on the global agreement we must be prepared to go beyond the 40% proposed by the commission. i think it is a very welcome development that the european council has agreed to this position. i am personally not entirely satisfied with what the summit has decided on renewable energy and energy efficiency. but in the international negotiations, the 40% target is crucial. i would like to point out to the socialist group's rapporteur that we should not be debating the issue of binding targets for energy efficiency and renewable energy here today. i think that parliament has done something very wise, but this is not the lima of the world. these are our internal discussions, which we must prepare well and on which this parliament will of course have its say at some point. but i do not think that is in the resolution. that is why we do not support this amendment at this stage. that does not mean that we are against binding targets.
in writing. the fight against climate change is a subject that is particularly close to my heart. since 2000, europe has reduced its co2 emissions by almost 10%, but global emissions have increased by 36% over the same period. it is therefore particularly important that our negotiators at the un climate conference in lima in early december commit to continuing the global efforts to protect the climate. i hope that a negotiating text with new binding climate targets for the period after 2020 can be drawn up in lima, which will then be decided at the paris climate conference in december 2015. unlike the kyoto protocol, which only binds the developed countries, the new agreement is intended to apply to all countries.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. it is a great honour to welcome this year's sakharov prize laureate, dr denis mukwege, and his wife, madelaine mapendo kaboyi, from the democratic republic of congo, to the european parliament. (applause from the centre) the european parliament is not a political body. please allow me, dr. mukwege, before i acknowledge your extraordinary commitment, to welcome some more guests who have distinguished themselves for freedom and human rights. among them is the representative of the ukrainian euromaidan movement, yelisaveta shchepetylnykova, who is with us today and whom i warmly welcome on behalf of the euromaidan movement. (applause from the centre) you, mrs shepetylnykova, and your colleagues, your friends, have shown enormous courage, and you have fought at the risk of your lives for the good future of your country. they took to the streets to live in a free and democratic ukraine. we are not going to let the european parliament get away with this. i would also like to welcome dinara yunus. mrs yunus has come to strasbourg today to represent her mother, leyla yunus, who cannot be with us because she is still in prison. welcome to the club, mrs. yunus. (applause from the centre) mrs yunus has been nominated for the sakharov prize here in parliament for her courageous advocacy and defence of human rights in azerbaijan as the founder of the institute for peace and democracy. the european parliament calls on the azerbaijani government to release immediately this innocent woman whose health is deteriorating dramatically. i 'd like to add this: we have tried to send a parliamentary delegation to azerbaijan to visit mrs yunus. we have not succeeded so far. i therefore expressly protest that our colleagues have been denied access to mrs yunus by the azerbaijani authorities until today. this is unacceptable. that's why the fact that your daughter is here today is a symbolic act. (applause from the centre) ladies and gentlemen, much better than i could describe it, there is a short film about dr. mukwege's work that we want to show you before i continue. (a short film on the work of dr mukwege will be shown.) these impressive and disturbing scenes tell a lot about you, dr. mukwege. a fascinating personality and at the same time a humble man who has dedicated his life to the struggle for peace and justice, a doctor who tirelessly cares for his patients and, in the most adverse circumstances, does everything to alleviate their terrible suffering. and yet we can hardly imagine the pain and misery you face every day of your work at the panzi hospital you founded. i would like to say on behalf of my colleagues that we admire and respect you for what you do every day. instead of looking away and turning away, you have become a fearless man in the face of cruel violence. a man who cares for the most neglected victims of war, women and girls who have been victims of sexual violence. you have relieved the suffering of countless women and girls. you have given refuge to survivors and extended a helping hand to heal their wounded bodies and their broken souls. you have been tireless in denouncing the systematic use of rape as a weapon in the war against the innocent and that these atrocities are not just acts of violence, but, as you have said, part of a strategy. rape is always inhumane and brutal, and we condemn it. but we must also follow our words with action. that is to say, ladies and gentlemen, the de facto impunity for rape in armed conflict must be ended. (applause from the centre) when commanders order rape, it is a war crime. and then these war crimes must be punished as war crimes. (applause from the centre) mass rape is still taking place in the democratic republic of congo. countless women suffered the same fate in syria, iraq, rwanda, bosnia and herzegovina and other armed conflicts. almost all of these crimes went unpunished. the european parliament calls on the government of the democratic republic of congo, as well as the governments of other affected countries, to assume its responsibility and to do everything possible to stop the rapes immediately, to do everything possible to end impunity for rapists and to do everything possible to guarantee women free access to the justice system. i'm not sure i understand. the european parliament honours your admirable work as a doctor and as a fighter for the dignity of women, for justice and peace in your country with the sakharov prize for freedom of thought. i hope that together we can raise awareness of the systematic use of rape as a weapon of war - a heinous crime that we must fight and eradicate with all our strength. yesterday, mr mukwege, in the european parliament, you said something that made a deep impression on me: 'in awarding me this prize, you recognize all these women and girls, in my country or in other parts of the world, whose status as victims we owe justice. i am proud, ladies and gentlemen, to present this year's sakharov prize for freedom of thought to dr. denis mukwege of the congo. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
he was awarded the sakharov prize. - mr president of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the peoples of the european union, distinguished guests in your titles and capacities, it is with great humility and great hope that i receive today the prestigious sakharov prize for freedom of thought. this year you commemorated the 100th anniversary of the first world war. europe thought it was the last one and that civilization would triumph. no, alas, thirty years later, human madness was back in business. since then, you have chosen to live together in peace in a society oriented towards freedom and prosperity. in a context of increasingly unstable security and a growing number of crisis areas, particularly in the immediate neighbourhood of the european union, i would first of all like to thank the elected representatives of the peoples of europe for highlighting the human tragedies experienced by women who are victims of rape and sexual violence in the eastern democratic republic of the congo. in a world of inverted values where violence is trivialised into ever more abhorrent forms, to refuse violence is to be dissident. by drawing the world's attention to the need to protect women in times of armed conflict, you have refused to be indifferent to one of the greatest humanitarian disasters of modern times. you reaffirmed that the resolution of conflicts in the great lakes and the promotion of human rights and democracy are and remain priorities of the european union's foreign policy. with this award, you have decided to increase the visibility of the struggle of congolese women for more than 15 years and to recognize their suffering, but also their dignity and the courage they embody. (applause) i would like to thank mr president, the region where i live is one of the richest in the world. yet the overwhelming majority of its people live in extreme poverty due to insecurity and poor governance. women's bodies have become a battlefield, and rape is used as a weapon of war. the consequences are many and affect the whole of society. the family unit is disintegrated, the social fabric is destroyed, populations are reduced to slavery or simply forced into exile in a largely militarized economy where the law of warlords continues to prevail in the absence of a rule of law. so we're looking at a very effective war strategy. the authority of the congolese state and its institutions remain fragile and are not yet able to protect the population or meet its basic needs. mr president, there are few days when the news in my region does not reveal a new human tragedy. last week, more than 50 people were massacred with machetes in beni territory in north kivu: pregnant women were disemboweled and babies mutilated. in the space of a month and a half, two hundred people were brutally murdered. like any human being, i would so much like to not mention these heinous crimes that my fellow human beings are victims of. but how can i be silent when for more than fifteen years we have been seeing what even a surgeon's eye cannot get used to seeing? how can i remain silent when we know that these crimes against humanity are planned with a low economic motive? how can i remain silent when these same economic reasons have led to the use of rape as a strategy of war? every woman i rape, i identify her with my wife. (applause) i would like to thank every mother who is raped, i identify with my mother and every child who is raped, i identify with my children. how can we be silent? what human being with a conscience would be silent when a six-month-old baby is brought to him whose vagina has been destroyed either by the violent penetration of an adult, by blunt objects, or by chemicals? for one thing, a single case of rape is serious and requires action by all. in my country there are hundreds of thousands of women raped and thousands of children born of rape, in addition to millions of human beings who have died because of conflict. in the rest of the world, everyone would rise in outrage, but in congolese society that is losing its bearings, mass atrocities are in the news as mere facts, sad signs of a society traumatized by too much violence, a society where there is an absence of political responsibility, and a simple denial of our common humanity. mr president, we have spent too much time and energy repairing the consequences of violence. it's time to deal with the causes. thousands of testimonies from victims show that the congolese people are thirsty for justice, peace and long for change. there is an urgency to act. the solutions exist and require real political will. we are at a critical juncture. the framework agreement for peace, security and cooperation, signed in addis ababa in 2013, cannot remain a mere piece of paper. we call on the european union and its member states , as a historic partner and the main aid donor, to revitalize the implementation of this agreement, which we are happy to call the 'agreement of hope', and to use all the levers, economic, financial, but also political and diplomatic, to contribute once and for all to the resolution of the conflicts in the great lakes. (applause) i would like to thank in the democratic republic of congo, consolidating the state and restoring security in the east are the top priorities. the reform of the security sector is one of the most important institutional reforms and is at the heart of efforts to implement the congolese state's primary responsibility to protect civilians. justice must also be placed at the heart of the peace process and the fight against impunity for the most serious crimes, including crimes of sexual violence, must be strengthened. there will be no peace and no economic and social development without respect for human rights, (applause) without reparation for rape survivors and victims, without clean-up of the public service including vetting of the security forces and without a truth-finding mechanism to promote reconciliation. mr president, human rights are not only one of the fundamental values of the european union but also one of the objectives which inspire its external relations, the promotion of peace and development and the strengthening of democracy and the rule of law. in our humble opinion and in our estimation, this is the real added value of the union compared to other international partners. but realpolitik often shows that geostrategic and economic interests take precedence over respect for the protection of human rights. the commission's draft european regulation on responsible sourcing of minerals, which is to be discussed in this house, should incorporate a binding dimension and cover both finished products here in the west and raw materials in africa. (applause) we hereby express our hope that everyone will ensure that there is greater coherence between economic policies and respect for human rights, and that human dignity is placed at the centre of economic and financial concerns. our country is full of potential and, with more responsible and transparent trade, congo has the capacity for endogenous development thanks to its natural resources but, above all, thanks to its human resources, which cannot be exploited for the benefit of all in a context of "neither peace nor war". mr president, this prize will only have meaning for women victims of sexual violence if you join us on the path to peace, justice and democracy. so we dedicate this to all the survivors of sexual violence in the democratic republic of congo and around the world. we believe that change will come through these brave, determined and worthy women who inspire us every day. we also dedicate this award to all the human rights defenders who are campaigning day after day, often in difficult conditions and out of the spotlight, to promote a culture of peace, help victims claim their rights and make their institutions more accountable. finally, we would like to pay tribute to the professionalism and dedication of all the panzi staff and all our partners who have helped us to achieve our work. i am thinking in particular of the european humanitarian agency echo, which has been supporting us for the past 10 years. without you, we wouldn't be here today. together, as policy makers, civil society actors and citizens, men and women, we must draw a line against the use of rape as a weapon of war and build a better future to provide our children and grandchildren with a framework for their development, and allow all those who have suffered too much to envision a future in greater freedom. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by addressing, from this house, the citizens of my country, who have in large numbers agreed to accompany me. my fellow countrymen, our nation, the democratic republic of congo, belongs to us. its natural and human resources, its institutions, its destiny, are all our responsibility. it is up to us, the congolese people, to shape our laws, our justice and our government to serve the interests of all of us and not just those of a few. (applause) i would like to thank the sakharov prize we receive from the european parliament is yours, and it is the symbol of freedom of thought: a right that has been taken away from us, a right that, because of terror and oppression, we sometimes seem to have renounced. we have earned this right and the peoples of europe, through their representatives, are reaching out to us today to recover it. they want to support us in our struggle for freedom, peace, justice and progress. today, europe is standing up to the world and expressing its solidarity. she wants to walk with us in our quest for the restoration of a dignified congolese life. let us unite and march with her, so that once and for all, peace and justice are restored to congo and we can aspire to a better future. our country is sick, but together, with our friends around the world, we can and we will heal it. thank you. (applause) the house is standing and applauding the winner.
i have to say, madam president, before the financial crisis, we thought that banks were fulfilling their social responsibility. we have had to realize, unfortunately, that this is not the case. i have to say that politics always starts with looking at reality, and reality includes statistics, especially in banking. if we want to equip the european central bank with the competence, if we want to establish the european central bank as the guardian of our financial relations, then we simply have to have the necessary statistical data. i therefore voted in favour of the report because it is the prerequisite for capturing and reflecting reality.
in writing. the european union has created a problematic situation by entrusting the ecb with the supervision of systemically important banks. in future, the ecb will have to ensure price stability and also carry out financial management tasks. but it is precisely this that is depriving it of the independence which is so sorely needed in the present crisis. for these reasons, i cannot agree to any proposal which would further the situation described.
i have to say, madam president, money is a matter of trust, and financial and monetary stability is the basis for stable social and democratic development. of course, you might say that if you agree on rules, you will stick to them. the reality is often different, which is why we reaffirmed in the previous report that the european central bank may and must also carry out analyses and collect statistical data. but on the other hand, you shouldn't be so out of touch with the world, you should have the tools in the kitchen, if for some reason someone is not ready or willing to play by the rules. i say it again: the aim should be that the rules of the game are not violated in the first place. but it's like crossing a red light: most people don't, some do anyway. we must see that those who knowingly violate the rules of the game can also be punished with sanctions. so it's a step in the right direction. we can debate whether it is sufficient, we can elaborate. but i really think this is a wonderful report and i hope that it will be implemented quickly and, of course, as always, evaluated if that is not enough.
i have to say, madam president, i would add that the right of the european central bank to impose sanctions omits very important sanctions, namely those which are directed at the personal responsibility of the bankers themselves, the directors of the banks, who have taken risks which they should not have taken. that is completely missing from the report. otherwise, i think the report is good, but it is a building block for a banking union, for a supervision of credit in the euro zone by the european central bank. we reject this oversight on grounds of principle. it is not right to mix monetary policy and banking supervision. the recent statements by the european central bank even show that economic policy is now also being brought into the ecb's sphere of competence, because the ecb is trying to pursue economic policy and to facilitate lending through purchases of abs. all this is not democratically controlled, and a parliament should not allow things to get out of control.
in writing. - i voted against this declaration because i do not believe that the ecb should be able to impose sanctions on commercial banks. the ecb's task is monetary policy, not banking supervision. the ecb has been given the task of banking supervision in the framework of the banking union, but this was a wrong decision, because there are obvious conflicts of interest between the ecb's monetary policy and supervisory tasks. the measures recommended in the report are appropriate to give a supervisory authority the tools to enforce its mandate and the arrangements and time limits set out in the report provide legal certainty. in this respect, the report is to be accepted on the assumption that banking supervision is properly located at the ecb. but i do not think that is the case, and that is why i rejected the report in the plenary.
in writing. due to the fundamental misconception of involving the ecb in banking supervision, i cannot agree to this request. how does the ecb intend to solve the dilemma of holding in its portfolio bank bonds which it has to close? will it be prepared to inflict losses on itself for the benefit of the taxpayers? as the ecb has already broken rules on a number of occasions and to a considerable extent, i also see my vote against it as a protest against the permanent jeopardy of the savings of german and other citizens.
in writing. when eu representatives go to climate conferences, unfortunately, failure is all too often a foregone conclusion. the eu is setting ambitious targets, but it is failing to get the countries with the highest carbon dioxide emissions to implement them. the result is that the competitiveness of germany and europe is now severely restricted. the european steel industry, for example, is being systematically weakened by the ineffective emissions trading and ever-changing co2 limits. this is not only a matter of job losses, but in the case of germany, the cost of the eeg is passed on to the middle and low income groups.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the recognition of palestinian statehood (2014/2964 ((rsp)).
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - mr president, first of all, let me say how much i appreciate the fact of being here in this capacity for the first time in my mandate, in this first three weeks or so, and maybe to reassure you and all this parliament of the fact that maybe we can go back to the way the treaties call me: high representative/vice-president. i assure you that i will be vice-president of the commission, so there is no need to switch the order. i give you a political reassurance on that, but i think it is good if we all stick to the treaties in content and in form. first of all, i would like to thank you for this timely debate. i think it is a crucial debate coming at a crucial time. i have just visited, in my first week in office, israel and palestine, including gaza, jerusalem and the west bank, and i can report back to you, as i did to the foreign affairs council, that there is a sense of urgency in the region, on both sides – very different on one side compared to the other side, but on both sides there is a very tense situation where the lack of a political perspective is, at one and the same time, the consequence and the result and the cause of violence that risks returning. we see that in these weeks, with terrorist attacks on one side and decisions on the other side that risk endangering the perspective of a two-state solution. this sense of urgency is becoming greater and greater in the absence of a political perspective. in the past months we experienced first the suspension of the talks last spring, then the conflict in gaza. luckily, and thanks to a good political initiative by some actors in the region and internationally – starting with egypt – a ceasefire was reached at the end of august followed by a donors’ conference not many weeks ago, once again in cairo. but none of this is reopening the path to a political perspective, to direct talks or to steps that can bring back hope in the fact that what we call the ‘two-state solution’ can become a reality in the near future. we have some open points. on one side we have the dramatic open point of gaza, where i saw a desperate situation, where i saw that the palestinian authority has more than difficulties in doing what we all hope it could do: start to rule gaza, starting with the security side and control of the crossings. and on the other side we have decisions like the one on the settlements, which is actually moving in an opposite direction, rather than the one indicated by the agreed negotiations. in this framework, i think this debate today about the role that the european union can play in this process is crucial. that is why i decided to go in my first week in office, because we are the first trade partner for israel and we are the first donor for the palestinian authority. we can be the first political player in the region to facilitate a dialogue, which has to be a direct dialogue between the israelis and the palestinians, but which maybe, for the first time really, has the chance of becoming regional. i saw during my visit – and i have shared this with the member states of the european union too – the fact that maybe we have for the first time such a dramatic threat and challenge in the region, in the middle east– namely daesh – that poses the actors in the region with a different set of priorities. i saw an awareness both in israel and in palestine that the order of priorities is changing, not only in the region but also in europe, and also on the other side of the atlantic, also for the international community, and that we have a clear possibility there of uniting different actors which now share the same concern for the security and stability of the region. we have threats in the regional framework today, but maybe we also have an opportunity coming out of these threats. on the other side, the vacuum that is there and which risks being even more relevant, especially in gaza, given the regional framework, could lead to even more dangerous outcomes. the situation in gaza will either get better on the ground or there is a risk that it will open the way for a more worrying situation, in terms of who controls what in that territory and who networks with whom in the region. that is why i think it would be wise from my side today not only to listen to you in the debate, but also to try to give you some input on what kind of political elements we can have, as the european union, to restart a peace process, to restart a political process – a political perspective. i will start with the regional framework. i believe that in 2002, the arab peace initiative was probably a missed opportunity. today that could constitute one of the elements of a renewed effort, regionally and internationally, to put actors around the table. we know that we have a palestinian-israeli conflict, but we also know that we have an arab-israeli conflict that we have to work on. maybe this set of threats and opportunities in the region could give us an opportunity to work on the middle east peace process on a broader scale and include, in particular, not only the arab league – which will have the ministerial meeting this weekend and which is certainly listening carefully to the messages coming out of here today – but also some key arab countries: certainly egypt, not only for the role that it has played historically and in the past months, but also because it has a certain leverage on gaza through rafah, and also jordan, as it has a special role regarding the status of the holy sites in jerusalem. i would also mention saudi arabia as the initiator of the arab peace initiative in 2002. i can share here with you the thoughts that i shared with the member states during the last foreign affairs council on the need to have a european union initiative, together with the arab league and arab states, in particular, and with the us – i am in constant contact with john kerry, who is renewing his commitment to reopen the way for negotiations – and with the un, also because we know that the un security council could be a way to redefine the framework of an initiative. i would mention the un security council with a view to having a resolution that would not split, but rather unite, the international actors to find a solution. the european union effort is at the same time trying to put that framework together. i will not just take into account but i will take note of your debate today, because i believe that the parliamentary debates – and then if you are going to take a vote on this next month – can fit into the process of a european common approach. you know very well that the recognition of a state is not within the competences of the european union. technically and politically this is the responsibility of individual member states, but i would never say to you – in the same way that i have not said this to the ministers of the member states when we had the foreign affairs council last week – i would never say that this is not my business. this is obviously technically not my business, but politically it is, because i believe that we need – and i appreciate the drafts that i have seen of the resolutions that encourage me to do so – to share a vision and to share a common understanding of the situation and also, if we can also manage it – and i think parliament can help us in that – to shape a common european approach of national initiatives that could go in the same direction. in this i think that this parliament can play a very important role. that message is coming across today. i will take the opportunity to reply at the end of the debate, but it is also important for me today to listen to the orientation that is coming from the european parliament, knowing that only if we manage to take into account all the different views and try to make a common view from these different views – coming from both different political groups and different member states – will we have the chance to fully play our role in the region. only if we send united messages as the european union in the region can our potential really be used. here also comes a good leverage that you have in terms of parliamentary diplomacy. do not under estimate it. i will do all that i can, and i know that you know that you can count on that. but you also have some instruments, some important instruments, in your daily or weekly or monthly contacts with the counterparts there. if we manage to send a united and strong message, we probably have a chance of influencing the course of the events in the middle east. i would like to state what our common position is already: sometimes we just refer to the two-state solution as a slogan, and i think it is useful to say what this means. because i was surprised by the fact that, when i said when i was in israel and palestine that we need a palestinian state, surprise! well, the two-state solution means that we have to have an israeli state that is able to live in security – and this is an issue we have to deal with – and also a palestinian state that we do not have at the moment. so i said publicly that we can discuss the recognition of a palestinian state. some member states are doing that in national parliaments; you are going to have a debate in this parliament and i will be listening to your orientation very carefully. national governments are going to take decisions, or not, at this time or later, but the important thing is that we all work together towards the same goal with the most effective instruments, coordinating these instruments if we manage to. and that is my responsibility, to achieve these results, and these results are the creation of a palestinian state within the 1967 borders, with swops if agreed, with jerusalem as capital of the two states, and this has already been agreed; this is a central common historical position. but i think it is right that we go into the details of what our historical position is, to remind ourselves what a two-state solution means, with the right of israel not only to exist but to exist in security and safety and peace in the region, and with all the palestinians – all the palestinians, whether in the west bank, in jerusalem or in gaza – having one state finally. i am looking forward to listening to your contributions to that and i will take note of them in this framework, that of someone who knows very well that opinions which are expressed in parliament, even if they are not, as in this case, targeted at an imminent decision that can become operational – because it is not in the power of the european parliament, as it is not in the power of the high representative/vice-president, to recognise a state – it is our common responsibility to work together to achieve the goal that i just stated: the creation of a palestinian state within this framework and working with israel to guarantee peace and security in the region. i believe – i said that to the israelis and i said it also to the palestinians, and i am saying also to the arab countries in the region – that there is no way of having security if we do not have a palestinian state, and there is no way of having a palestinian state if we do not guarantee stability, security and peace to the israelis too. that is the very same concept, the core of the efforts that the european union has always worked on. today it is probably more difficult than ever, but sometimes, when it is more difficult, people around the table realise that a plus of political will and internal leadership is needed and they might make an effort in that direction.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the majority of palestinians and the majority of israelis want peace, want peace based on a two-state solution. but there are forces on the palestinian side, particularly hamas, which do not want a two-state solution and are using violence in gaza. and there are circles in israeli society who don't want that either and who also sit partly in the government and don't want a two-state solution. we have a situation that is becoming dangerous again. on the one hand, there must be an opening of gaza so that it can develop, on the other hand, israel has a claim to not be bombarded by rockets from gaza. it's a combination of both. the fact that we have the temple mount issue, as well as the attack on the synagogues, shows how dangerous it is when politics and religion are mixed together, and this is where additional radicalization is brought about. the question of the settlements speaks for itself. our goal is a two-state solution with a secure jewish state of israel and a viable palestinian state. this can only be done on the basis of mutual recognition, as the high commissioner made clear at the end of her speech. one thing requires another, so one cannot acknowledge the one before the other, unless everything else is also given, but this connection must be clearly seen. the idea of involving the united states and the united nations more and acting on the principle 'we would not like to be just the biggest donors we want to be so a player there' means that the european union now has to take more political initiative here. i also believe that the responsibility of the arab states for this peace process - which is partly a proxy war - is of great importance and that the appropriate capacities must be developed to resolve this conflict, which is becoming increasingly important far beyond the region these days. i therefore hope that we will be able to reach a common position on the basis of our resolution. because if we act separately, it will be a very difficult situation for us to contribute to a peaceful development.
colleague, i am very sorry, but the blue-card system is there to ask a question, not to make a speech and then ask a question. please stick to that.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i was pleased to hear the refreshing words you have expressed in this house after your visit to gaza and also to see that you are finally beginning to break up old structures of one-sided pro-israel policies, which have not brought peace in recent decades. so, after 193 out of 195 countries in the united nations general assembly in 2012 opened the door to recognition, after european countries such as spain, the united kingdom, sweden and ireland have now clearly taken the position that they want to overcome this status quo, and that belgium, france and denmark will soon follow, it is time for the european community of states to make a signal here to make new negotiations possible. the palestinian people have paid for this with occupation, partition, destruction of property and infrastructure, expulsion and a high price in blood. in december, when you vote on the resolution, you will have to decide whether the violations of international law and human rights by the state of israel will continue to be sanctioned or whether this injustice will help palestine - by voting for the recognition of palestine - to regain its right.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr karim, we always talk about israel and the gaza strip and the west bank. is it always the israelis who are responsible, who are threatened with permanent annihilation by the palestinians, especially hamas? what is the situation with the relationship between the palestinians and the arabs? as far as i know, all the arab states have withdrawn their support for the palestinians since arafat spoke out in favour of saddam hussein in the early 1990s. why not appeal to the friends of the palestinians before appealing to a state threatened with permanent destruction?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. which palestinian state should we recognize? hamas in gaza or fatah in the west bank? i can understand the desire for a palestinian state. but this step must be well thought out and, above all, prepared. the most important question to be answered in this context is: will this step lead to peace and stability in the middle east, or will it not rather create a new breeding ground for more unrest? would hamas abandon its declared aim of destroying israel, or would it not be legalised in the form of a state and in the future continue to pursue its aim with the support of the european union? it is necessary to clarify that human rights must be respected, that minorities must be protected and, above all, that the palestinian state is a democratic state governed by the rule of law. until these questions are answered convincingly, until we have a guarantee that the new state is a democratic state governed by the rule of law, i can only warn against any recognition of a palestinian state. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. madam president, there are two possibilities. either you haven't been listening to me properly, or the translation is really catastrophic. i didn't say anything about israel being a state of law. israel is a state of law! that's a whole other ball game. but i didn't mention that in my speech. madam president, this parliament should be dealing with other matters. this parliament should be concerned with what is really its task, for example not to support terrorism in israel and palestine. that is what this parliament should be concerned with. to return to your question on the rule of law, i was referring to the fact that the palestinian state, if it is to be recognised, must be a state governed by the rule of law. and that has to be ensured beforehand, we can't try to take any chances.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. today we celebrate 25 years of the un convention on the rights of the child. but the universal declaration of human rights of 1948 applies to all, regardless of age, including children. what are explicit children's rights? not human rights, but children's rights! the new is not the rights, but the addressee of the rights. because who is going to protect the rights of children? it's the parents, father and mother. and father and mother, parents, they're not even mentioned in the un convention on the rights of the child. children are given rights against their parents, and the state enforces them. it's definitely the beginning of it. we should be careful. the state's air supremacy over the cribs is exactly what we must reject. the pope said yesterday that without an indissoluble family, we build our society on sand. let's keep the state away from our children and strengthen parental rights!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, dear children in europe and throughout the world! the un convention on the rights of the child marks a milestone in the history of children's rights and protection. but we also live 25 years after the adoption of the convention on the rights of the child in a world where children's rights are trampled on every day. every year, 2.9 million children still die of hunger, 72 million children still lack access to education. and in the eu, 20% of all children are still growing up in poverty. this situation has increased dramatically during the crisis. we must therefore make every effort to change this untenable situation. on the 25th anniversary of the convention on the rights of the child, we are not only called upon to improve the socioeconomic situation of children. this anniversary, 20 november, is also an occasion for me to raise questions about the democratic rights of children. how can children influence democratic decisions here in this parliament and in other political institutions? we, the members of parliament, were not elected by children. children in all our societies are being denied a key instrument of participation, the right to vote. i think that the day of the rights of the child should be a date every year when we talk about this situation and put it to the test, and above all discuss with children how they can be involved in the democratic decisions of parliaments.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. unfortunately, no country has yet created the conditions for the requirements of the convention on the rights of the child to be fully met. the united states has not signed it, but there are also many shortcomings in europe in terms of implementation. over 20% of children in the eu are affected by poverty. the austerity policies limit access to basic services. thousands of refugees drown in the sea, including an unbearable number of children. the situation of child refugees is one of the most flagrant abuses of children's rights. despite article 22 of the convention, children are not receiving adequate protection and humanitarian aid. this includes the right to the highest attainable standard of health. this is particularly dramatic when severely traumatised child soldiers are not entitled to psychological treatment as in germany. unfortunately, the convention on the rights of the child does not preclude the drafting of persons under 18 years of age. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and in response to the reactionary notions of family, i would just like to say here: no love from a father and a mother or a father and a father can replace a functioning health system.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. we are today commemorating a quarter of a century of children's rights, in which we as politicians could have done much more to make a good, happy life possible for children all over the world. i would like to warn us, and above all all all the absent members, not to indulge in complacency and self-assertion. we in europe still have far too many children living in poverty, suffering or in broken family relationships. i do not see anything in this resolution about the right of children to have a family. the term occurs only twice in the many pages, and only indirectly. i know that there are groups which would like to see the term removed from the political vocabulary altogether. i say to all of you: words do not change reality, children need parents, our society needs children and europe needs families! we all applauded pope francis yesterday, many even in standing ovations. in view of this, it is a shame that we forget the families in this resolution. i would like to join my colleague in saying that we need parental choice rights throughout europe. children and parents must play a part in all our decisions in parliament.
in writing. in 2000, the rights of the child were explicitly included in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. this is important and very advanced compared to, for example, germany. in germany, children's rights are still not part of the constitution, which i very much regret. but this accession brings with it a number of obligations for me in relation to the eu. the first is the unacceptably high number of children living in poverty and lacking adequate access to education and participation in society. children are not small adults, but have special needs which need to be defined in european law: we must ensure that in building regulations, social and spatial planning, the interests of children are taken into account in a special way. this includes involving children in all planning processes that affect them. we must work hard to make children's rights more than just nice words.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank you for giving the italian presidency, as a member of the g20, the opportunity to speak on this subject, since you know that the european union is represented at the g20 by the presidency of the council of the european union and the presidency of the commission. but we have gladly accepted your invitation to comment on the outcome of the g20. we consider this to be a very positive result, because it is certainly very consistent with our approach to economic matters, which we have given, tried to give and proposed during the six months we are chairing the council of the european union. the theme of growth in brisbane was taken up by everyone, and i must say that as italy we certainly did not suffer from a lack of company. the will to overcome the useless dualism of austerity and growth was clear, and above all the will to do more, much more and much better for growth and investment. we need to change the game and we need to focus much more on growth and jobs. this was the summary of the message that came out of the g20. the central message, which you will also find in the conclusions of the summit, is that the world economy and particularly the european and japanese economies are still far from the growth rates they should be achieving. the global economy remains vulnerable to shocks, and the third point - on which progress has also been made, even recently - is the need to strengthen the resilience of the banking system. in this respect, the banking union and the stress tests we have carried out and are carrying out within the european union have certainly been identified as a very positive step forward. what are the global and possible responses that emerged from the summit? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commitment of all the g20 members to increase demand, especially through a new domestic investment policy, and in general the commitment to create a new and much more favourable regulatory financial climate, including new instruments such as securitisations for small and medium-sized enterprises, is very important. the recognition of the serious and serious gap between the investment needed globally and the actual investment is a very obvious gap, and it is also the debate we had this morning when president juncker presented the investment plan. a gap that is very evident in europe. it was emphasized by everyone in brisbane, and that is why the global infrastructure initiative was also launched specifically for the infrastructure sector. that is why it is very important, as a further contribution alongside the banking union, alongside the stress tests, as a further contribution from the european union - a contribution which was already mentioned, because it was announced by the president of the commission and all the european members of the g20 - the full and rapid implementation of the investment plan presented this morning by president juncker and mentioned in the g20 conclusions, which for us constitutes a first response to a broader and new investment policy which we must pursue at european and national level. another important theme of the work we are doing during the semester was the fight against tax evasion and tax avoidance, in particular the need and importance of taxing real profits where they are generated. there was a lot of talk and a lot of work in brisbane on the 2015 erosion and profit shifting base action plan. there was also a commitment to increase the automatic exchange of information between countries and to complete the necessary legislative processes within the systems of the various countries to achieve an exchange of information. the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and even overly aggressive tax planning was also discussed. this is a priority issue for the european union, a subject on which the italian presidency has been very active, and i only mention the progress made on the automatic exchange of information between tax administrations. the last issue that concerns us as europeans, and this is unfortunately not a positive one, but it does not depend on europe or on europeans, is the lack of progress in implementing the reforms already identified in 2010 with regard to the international monetary fund in this area. this remains one of the major priorities for the g20 and certainly the united states of america was again asked to accelerate and commit to proceed with the ratification of those reforms already identified in 2010. of course, we are now committed to fully implementing and following up the guidelines we are fully following, especially - and i conclude, mr president - because of the emphasis on growth and the need to change the approach to economic policy in a period when europe and japan certainly have to do more and do better than other partners, who have also suffered from the crisis but are coming out of it in a faster and more convincing way.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i am glad of the opportunity to debrief this parliament on the outcome of the g20 summit in brisbane, where president juncker, president van rompuy and i myself represented the european union. it was the ninth g20 summit after the launch of the leaders process in 2008. let me state at the onset that i am very pleased with the results of this meeting. not only are they encouraging and ambitious results from a global governance standpoint, but they also reflect the main – if not all the – desiderata of the eu and, i believe, of this parliament. let me emphasis four main points. first, on the global economy. as per g20 mission and tradition, the state of the global economy was the main item on the agenda. the g20 sent a message of confidence while remaining realistic about the current economic outlook. g20 leaders called for a policy mix that strikes an appropriate balance between the need to promote demand, implement structural reforms and act with fiscal credibility. these are the three pillars of our economic policy, so we could not agree more with this recipe. in order to strengthen the recovery, the australian presidency focused on identifying measures that should be adopted in order to foster growth, create jobs and support investment. this delivers strong policy coherence on investment between the global g20 level, the eu level and national level, which is most helpful for the current global economy. in this connection, g20 leaders welcomed the commission’s eur 300 billion investment package, and the brisbane action plan notes that the european union announced in october a major initiative mobilising additional public and private investment over the years 2015 to 2017. this is meant as a strong signal of encouragement for our investment initiative. leaders also recognised the value of securitisation to help finance small and medium-sized enterprises. second, tax transparency. work related to the international tax system was an important deliverable of the summit. leaders emphasised the importance of taxing profits where they are generated. president obama said that the work of tax transparency is the g20 at its best, and we agreed with this. the g20 endorsed progress made on the base erosion and profit-shifting initiative of the oecd, which tackles issues such as the importance of transparency to counter harmful tax practices and the taxation of profits generated online by internet companies. leaders committed to completing this work by the end of 2015. we called for an automatic exchange of taxpayer-specific rulings. thanks to the support from many other leaders, we succeeded in securing a stronger emphasis on the final communiqué on this important issue. we will keep the matter on the g20 agenda and move ahead in the eu. third, on trade. the announcement just two days before the summit of an agreement between india and the us on the implementation of the bali trade facilitation agreement changed the tone of the discussion. as a result of this agreement, leaders could focus on the implementation of the bali decisions and the perspective of the completion of the doha development agenda. we underlined the importance of robust and effective wtos as a response to the current and future challenges. we all agreed to discuss ways to make the system work better at the next g20 summit in turkey. finally, on climate change. after a difficult discussion, and with the support of key international partners, we overcame strong efforts to limit the reference to climate change to a bare minimum, which would not be acceptable for us. this was yet another example of the eu and its g20 member states working together and in unison to uphold and to promote an eu position. we eventually obtained a reference to the need to communicate the intended nationally-determined contributions well in advance of cop 21, and to mobilise finance for adoption and mitigation, mentioning the green climate fund. these are practical steps which should facilitate reaching an agreement at the paris conference. you may recall that the starting point of the australian presidency was not to mention climate change at all in the g20 context. i look forward to a fruitful discussion.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. the european commission has today presented what i consider to be a necessary and very ambitious investment plan for europe, a strong push to restore confidence in the european economy. i very much welcome the fact that the european union has already been actively promoting this plan in brisbane. the world often expects positive news from both the european union and the g20 countries. the two initiatives, the g20 investment initiative and the investment plan for europe, are two promising examples. we should also remember that credibility is the cornerstone of sustainable growth and jobs. the structural reforms already undertaken must be continued and maintained on the right track. fair taxation for business is also an important issue on the eu and g20 agendas. the member states have already done a great deal to ensure that europe continues to play a leading role in the automatic exchange of tax information. however, we also recognise that the driving force is still an initiative of the g20 with close cooperation from the oecd. the globally agreed standard of reporting on the automatic exchange of tax data needs to be further promoted also beyond the g20 on a reciprocal basis. the european parliament wants to go further in terms of transparency, coordination and convergence of corporate tax policy. we as the epp insist that there be an understandable, forward-looking and rapid input on the so-called expanded tax revenues. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the taxation of capital. in the meantime, we call on the g20 to continue its work in this context.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i thank the presidency in particular for its comments on tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning. the tax practices in individual member states which have become known in recent weeks and are being discussed throughout europe are only the tip of the iceberg. according to a 2012 study, tax evasion and tax fraud are responsible for €1 trillion of tax revenue lost each year by eu member states. this is almost eight times the eu budget for the current year, or, in other words, about three times the amount that the president of the commission presented to us this morning as the amount for the major investment programme for europe. it's too late to act here. the eu must be a pioneer in this. this is an important first step. but it's equally important that we actually continue to act and move forward on a global scale. the g20 summit was rightly focused on taxation. the commitment to a fairer design of international tax treaties is a start. but now further steps must be taken in due course. let me name three of them. first, the oecd initiative against profit shifting and tax cuts in the eu and globally must be pushed forward. profits are taxed where they are earned. multinational corporations can no longer shift profits from high-tax countries to tax havens in the form of often ridiculously low royalties. for that, we need an automatic exchange of information. secondly, we need a targeted approach to tax havens. the oecd definition does not go far enough here. we need a clear definition and a clear set of criteria for tax havens in order to identify and tackle them. we in the s&d group are therefore calling for the creation of a blacklist of tax havens throughout europe. thirdly, the fight against money laundering. this too must be strengthened. the owners behind often interlocking mailbox companies must be exposed. for that we need public registers, accessible to everyone. the ultimate aim of all measures must be to eliminate completely and permanently, both at european and global level, what has hitherto often been legal but has been recognised as illegitimate. in other words, tax practices that are illegal must be illegal in the future.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, honourable members, it is a pleasure to be back in the european parliament and in strasbourg. i agree with you that the digital single market requires our immediate attention. for this we need the telecoms single market as a solid basis for the future. i know this parliament agrees with the ambitious plan to achieve a truly connected digital single market, as can be seen in your resolution and your support for the telecoms single market package. but i am worried about the direction that the telecoms single market negotiations have taken in the council, where member states are divided. the telecoms single market is an essential building block of the digital single market. without it, we cannot achieve the rest. the european council asked for it in october 2013, and tomorrow in the telecoms council, member states need to be ambitious and take a decisive step towards achieving it. what kind of digital single market would we build without decent solutions on roaming, net neutrality and, more importantly, on spectrum? the net neutrality concept has to be solid and should be clearly defined. concerning spectrum, more cooperation in spectrum allocation is not a technical issue. it is about getting high quality – and decently priced –connectivity and new services. our citizens want the best the internet can offer. they want an internet that is safe and accessible to everybody. this is not a reality in europe today. there is even more work to do to achieve a truly connected digital single market, a market where every consumer is able to enjoy digital content and services – wherever they are in the eu – including government services. it means every company should be able to share and sell its wares to a market of 500 million, using seamless online channels. today, a small business trying to spread across the eu faces 28 rules for consumer protection, data protection, contract law, tax rates. consumers trying to buy online face endless barriers. and it just costs too much, both for consumers and businesses. i want to see more efficient parcel delivery across member states and to tackle e-commerce. i want to make sure we can do online what is possible offline. this is why i have proposed a set of initiatives to my fellow commissioners and committed to focus on six main areas of work that i will steer and coordinate in my role as vice-president. a first area of our work will be about building trust and confidence in the online world. as i said during my european parliament hearing last month, both these issues matter a great deal to me. they are vital if a digital single market is to exist in europe and function properly. this means moving further on consumer rights, ensuring that the consumer rights directive is fully implemented but also simplifying and modernising the rules for online purchases and digital products. it also means concluding negotiations on data protection rules and cyber-security. another work area relates to removing restrictions and preventing new ones from appearing. one particular area to address will involve putting a stop to the blocking of online consumers based on their location or residence. this will be about reforming and modernising copyright rules and getting rid of unjustified curbs on transfer and access to digital assets. again, as i said during my hearing, i am committed to getting rid of geo-blocking. this goes against the core principles of europe’s single market. our other areas of work will aim to guarantee online access, connectivity and investment, build the digital economy and make the digital single market matter to businesses and their opportunities. in your resolution, you address non-discrimination when using search engines. i agree that we need to address this issue: search engines are a key part of the development of the digital single market. we should discuss a broad range of measures starting with transparency, self-preference and vertical services in this area. there are also competition tools to address this issue. the commission will remain vigilant when it comes to competition law infringements that hamper the digital single market. commissioner vestager will decide how to proceed with the ongoing investigation into google’s business practices, once she has heard those who most directly affected by such practices are. i also want to promote e-society, ensure that our citizens have the skills needed to get ahead in the digital age and stimulate digital innovation and research to keep europe a world ict leader. i know you also have more ideas. thank you for setting them out. we will examine them very closely. our timetable is ambitious. in 2015 the commission will present its strategy and prepare corresponding measures based on a clear assessment of the most urgent obstacles to be removed. we will not overcome these obstacles by words or by weak rules. better regulation means efficient rules, minimum burdens for business and consumers, effective competition and high-quality services across pan-european markets. there are different ways to achieve that – harmonisation, mutual recognition, ‘country of origin’. these are the principles that the single market was built on. the same must apply online. i made this principle clear in my hearing and i will fight for it. that is what we need to achieve. we have the political steer from the european council, from president juncker and from this parliament. now we need action, and the determination to deliver a fully functional digital single market. the benefits of a digital single market are eur 260 billion a year, potentially more. imagine ending those barriers, making this a benefit to europe, not the cost of non-europe. this is the jolt that our economy needs and the opportunity our citizens want. it is not something we should turn our backs on. it is what we can build with a digital single market. we have a great opportunity, and we should make the best of it.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. first of all, mr ansip, thank you very much for your clear words on the motions for resolutions before us today. we are talking today about how we can achieve a genuine digital european single market in the coming years. this is the objective that the new commission under jean-claude juncker has rightly set itself, because it holds significant growth potential for consumers and businesses alike. of course, the european digital single market must be open and integrated into a global internet. but we want to ensure that the european legal framework provides fair and clear conditions for all providers and all consumers. that is why we must keep our eyes on several points in the coming months. firstly, we need more coherence in europe between the various legislative projects, all of which are dedicated to this objective. secondly, we want all citizens to be able to participate in this digital single market on an equal footing. and thirdly, we want all users involved - consumers, consumers and suppliers - to feel secure in this market in the long term and to be able to benefit from the many innovative offers. the attempt to achieve this consistency has involved the involvement of many committees in the drafting of this resolution. i would therefore like to begin by thanking everyone for having taken part in the adoption of this resolution. i hope that tomorrow we will be able to reach the widest possible consensus on this text, so that we can start this journey towards the digital single market together. we hope, mr ansip, that you will be fully involved in this.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already done so. let me ask you to correct a mistake first. you have just said that the european internal market is based on the principle of the country of origin. this is simply wrong! it is based on the greatest possible harmonization, and we should continue to do so. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: in our world, we have experienced that competition on the internet is simply very distorted and that many young start-ups, service providers and others do not have a chance to get real access to citizens and consumers because of a market domination by individual search engines. we should really make that clear. i am surprised that mr schwab, who is one of the initiators of this resolution, has completely forgotten to mention it at this point. i think we have to make sure that our young companies, the young people who are coming out of university, who are starting up businesses, who have new ideas, really have a chance to present their services freely on the internet and also have access to the market. we want the citizens to have the freedom to decide for themselves where they get their information and in what context they get it. i think we really need to get to that. and the european commission has been investigating, investigating and still investigating for years! i think it is time for the european commission to really come up with some results in this area, so that we can ensure that people, that young entrepreneurs, that our economy also has a good chance of advancing in the global market. for us social democrats, there are of course other issues which are also very important in this context: consumer protection, but also net neutrality and data protection. but my colleagues in my group will deal with this in more detail.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. what we are concerned about is the clear and binding definition of net neutrality. we decided to do so in april of this year and we want to do so again today in connection with this directive. what is the best consumer protection in data protection? this is a strong data protection package - regulation, basic regulation and directive - so that we can also ensure clear and strong consumer rights and legal certainty for businesses. but it also means that we really have no consumer protection as long as the secret services can snoop on citizens with impunity. that is why we have called in the moraes report, among other things, for the european it industry to be encouraged to become more autonomous and to actually implement fundamental rights standards. and another thing about the word start-up: if you want to support start-ups, you have to limit market power and be for net neutrality. because that is the only way to achieve a more equal access to the internet. i therefore urge you to join the 'save the internet' campaign and to contact the council so that this knowledge can actually be passed on to the council. this is extremely important to us, and i ask you to be part of it.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the resolution on the digital single market does not contain much new content. parliament underlines its decision that we need a net neutrality law. and we're calling for the long overdue copyright reform for the digital age. the resolution does not say anything on either of these points that parliament and the commission have not already decided or announced. the original reason for this resolution has long since been removed from the table. this was the threatened settlement of the competition case against google by the old commission. so why are we now dealing with this resolution? the resolution seems to be aimed at preparing a pan-european copyright law for press publishers. such a scheme would impose a licence fee for the display of small text extracts from online press articles. germany has already tried in vain to finance large publishers through google in this way. the piece of the puzzle that was missing in germany, which led to the failure of this plan, is now to be created here. under the pretext of the neutrality of the search results, a compulsion is established to display content in google search, for which publishers get money. this would effectively turn the alleged protection of the performance of publishers into a google tax. the side effects are fatal. because google can afford to pay for snippets of text. but small competitors and private individuals cannot do that. in germany and spain - which are also the countries of origin of the initiators of this resolution - the right to protection of benefits restricts the right to quote. the basis of the free exchange of knowledge on the net is being hampered. we must not export this bad idea to europe. if our aim is to get the commission to stand up to the internet giants, then let us concentrate on measures that work! we must finally put an end to tax dumping in europe. so instead of rhetoric against google, the grand coalition could finally set up the luxleaks commission of inquiry. because what we don't need are newly invented fees for individual companies that also restrict free communication on the web. what we need is a taxation system that works for all companies in europe.
i have to say, madam president, let me make a preliminary remark about mr schwab and others. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. however, as digitisation progresses, there is also an increasing debate on the protection of privacy and personal rights. if we as europeans are to play an important, if not leading, role in this digital agenda, we need to link digitalisation and fundamental rights protection effectively. companies want to protect their data, their developments, and consumers need clarity about what is being done with their data by whom. the european data protection package, when it finally comes, will regulate data economy, strict purpose-orientation, as short a retention period as possible - clear rules for all those who offer products and services in europe, wherever they are based. we are also making sure that there are uniform rules in europe, because this makes it easier for companies to concentrate on one standard instead of 28 standards, and we are creating legal certainty and clarity for both sides, including consumers. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of fundamental rights. i am convinced that the strategy for a successful european digital single market will be all the more successful the more citizens, but also businesses, can rely on their fundamental rights being protected digitally and fair competition being ensured online.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the eu-wide digital single market offers a great deal of scope for innovation, investment, jobs and economic growth. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the acquis in the field of the internal market and will continue to monitor the implementation of the acquis in the field of the internal market. e-commerce is going to change our society, our social interaction, our cultural life, in short, our daily lives. the single large european market offers room for european champions in this field. for that, we need a free internet, net neutrality, no monopoly of providers, search engine operators, no market concentration or filtering of supply. and we have to be careful that big data doesn't lead to the glass consumer. the most important thing is that we need child and youth protection. we need to make it easier for families to protect their children from the dangers of the world wide web, even when they are accessing it. to successfully tackle these challenges, we need comprehensive strategies, a set of rules on data protection, privacy and citizens' rights in general.
i have to say, madam president, i personally think it is very good that the new commission is being upgraded by a commissioner for the digital agenda. we all know that the digital world knows no national boundaries, and this realization must finally be reflected in action and legislation in europe, and above all in the member states. it is nothing less than the value added and competitiveness of our european economy. those who want more growth must put the digital market much more in the spotlight. we are working to ensure that there is more investment in europe and, above all, a better investment climate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. we do not need new transport roads to nowhere, but rather data highways that will boost our innovation in europe. it is nothing more and nothing less than an investment in the future. we must take advantage of the fact that the digital agenda has a cross-cutting function. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives from the public, and it is hoped that the commission will be able to take this into account in its future work. we are counting on the new commissioner for competition to tackle competition law issues consistently and to propose solutions in a timely manner. we know that the issues of data protection and copyright must be dealt with with particular care. we must also promote international standardisation. competitors must have equal access to the digital market. we must therefore take decisive action against discrimination. europe needs a new, strong common position on this, because technological progress leaves us no time to wait any longer. let us now begin with a policy for the future. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. now, 133 signatures is a lot of signatures, of course. but we must also say that we have found a good, balanced proposal here. andreas schwab has done his job really well. we are on the right track and we as the epp have a clear position on this. surely there are different ways of looking at this. that's what we do here, unlike the liberals. we believe that we have really put forward a balanced proposal here and do not want to interfere too much in the market.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the digital single market is essential for economic development in the european union. it has great potential not only in economic terms but also for the preservation and dissemination of cultural and creative content, the cultural diversity in europe. in order to harness this potential for good, we need fair and transparent market conditions for all participants. the cultural sector in particular is characterised by its diverse structures, by large and small players in the market. the digital single market offers opportunities for all. however, we must be careful that market dominance does not lead to a gatekeeper function that hinders access to the digital market and prevents fair competition. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment by the placing on the market of products containing harmful substances. net neutrality, fair and non-discriminatory search and discovery, as well as fair conditions in copyright and its enforcement, are key to ensuring that new creative content and services will have a chance in this digital single market in the future. we therefore call on the commission to make full use of the possibilities offered by competition law to combat excessive market concentration and the abuse of dominant positions, particularly where vertical or horizontal convergence leads to distortions in the market. we also call for the adaptation of copyright law to the changing conditions of the digital market, which will bring the different interests of consumers, content providers, rights holders and authors, in particular the creative arts sector, into a fair balance.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in the event of the transmission of electronic communications services by means of a network. i find it remarkable how audaciously telecommunications companies and cable operators manage to support net neutrality and an open internet while at the same time demanding the broadcasting of special services. the reasoning is always the same: they stress that they would like to push forward the required network expansion, but demand compensation through special services in which they bundle open internet offerings exclusively, prioritize them and make providers and customers pay for them. the expansion of the networks would otherwise not be financed. if we allow this, we're buying ourselves a high-speed internet at the cost of net neutrality and basic freedoms. as members of parliament, we have an obligation to protect freedom of information and communication. this is our commitment to an open internet. a strict definition of special services and their strict limitation, as already decided by parliament in april, is essential if the openness of the internet is not to be undermined. the state, parliamentarians and, most importantly, private companies have no say in what legal content is delivered to the end user or not. the preservation of an open and free internet is a fundamental prerequisite for ensuring social participation, diversity of opinion, innovation and fair competition. these values must be at the heart of any digital agenda. these objectives must not be undermined by specific contractual arrangements. it cannot be our job to pave the way for contractual relationships like comcast-netflix or spotify-telekom. the least we could have learned from the google case is that we should correct errors before they occur. it would be a gross negligence to enable new business models and then later be surprised to find that they distort the market. but then it will be too late. the debate on net neutrality is not only about fundamental freedoms, but also about ensuring fair competition opportunities on a lasting basis in order to take advantage of the opportunities offered by digital development. the legal safeguarding of net neutrality is not a left-wing trick, but a necessity in socio-political and economic terms.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to welcome you, commissioner bieńkowska, to this parliament, and i thank you for your overview regarding the state of play for the european steel industry. i must say, however, that i was a bit surprised that you did not at all mention the present situation on international steel markets, because i believe that has a major impact on the situation in europe. the united states, as you know, is presently taking anti-dumping measures. is there a need to take similar measures in europe too? maybe you can answer that in your response. this parliament is pondering – not for the first time – how we could help the steel industry to hold on to the future that it should have. here i agree with you, commissioner: steel must have a future in europe. there is no way of ignoring the advice that the famous baseball philosopher ‘yogi’ berra gave to everybody: when you come to a fork in the road, take it! and the fork in the road that we have to decide upon is whether we want to develop the future of our steel industry following an innovation-based competitiveness strategy, or whether we want a dumping-oriented, never-catch-up strategy. the european steel lobby is, unfortunately, focusing its own efforts not on pursuing an innovation agenda but on resorting to a strategy composed of calls for subsidies, calls for protectionism and calls for social and environmental dumping strategies. i have a leaflet here distributed by eurofair. in seven points it outlines what the industry is asking for from parliament. all seven points have just one message: give up any meaningful climate and energy transition policy in europe and we might be thankful. not a single word about innovation. i believe that competitiveness can only be built on the basis of technology leadership. voestalpine is competitive and thyssenkrupp is competitive again. if we want to have a competitive european steel industry, that is where we have to go.
- i'm not sure. you have not said much that is wrong today, which may be because you have not said much overall and, above all, relatively little concrete. we have an economic crisis. we have a dramatic decline in world steel consumption. we have massive competition from outside europe. we have the additional burden of high environmental standards and the trade in certificates and relatively high wages in international comparison. all this has led to dramatic distortions of competition in the global market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and other sites are in danger. the european union must have reason not to intervene in business decisions when such enterprises are in danger, when other sites are in danger. because if companies want and need to restructure to adapt to market changes, they need to be able to do so. we are called upon to help the companies in this situation. in order to safeguard jobs, we would be better advised to provide the european steel industry with a better framework, to strengthen its competitiveness and not to invest further in carbon leakage measures. we must stop falling into bureaucracy. let us simplify the rules and thus safeguard europe's steel industry - with its modern environmentally friendly plants and efficient process technology - and its jobs. sustainable in the medium and long term! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. you mean the tata steel plant. it's amazing that there are still steel mills in britain. there's not much left. most of it's already broken. and that has -- as you say -- a lot of high energy costs, of course, and that has a lot to do with emissions trading, because there are other places in the world where emissions trading is a little bit more relaxed. the steel industry is finally going out of europe to other continents, without any positive effect on the world's climate, without any positive effect on the world's carbon footprint.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not we are voting on an important report today. because it's a shame that millions of children still suffer from hunger and that every few minutes a child dies of hunger. i am also very pleased that - and i thank mrs mcavan very much - in this report we are not only talking about malnutrition but also about malnutrition, because it is not enough that children get enough calories. for healthy growth and development, they need a balanced diet, with vitamins, trace elements, and so on. but we cannot achieve this if we continue to promote the usual monocultures. they are displacing diversified cropping systems with different grain and vegetable varieties and thus the production of the micronutrients needed. i call on the eu to follow the recommendations of the eu special rapporteur on the right to food, who explicitly points to more organic farming as a way for these countries to feed themselves, and who also points to the role of agriculture in climate change and poverty reduction. so we need to encourage and support small farmers, because they have the potential to spread diverse, climate-friendly farming systems, they have the potential to produce fair food that matches local dietary habits, they have the potential to build economies. the region's processing, transport and trade are also linked to primary production. there is the potential for labour and thus the first step out of poverty. but without land, food cannot be grown. this means that traditional land rights must be protected, that access to land must be ensured for the local population, especially for women. the winner cannot be the one who puts more money on the table. the local population must be the victor here, and we must not encourage any further land grabbing. investment in agriculture is absolutely necessary. they are necessary if we are to combat hunger and poverty in the developing world. but not every type of investment in agriculture is helpful here. when private investors end up more or less displacing the local population from their own resources and depriving them of them in order to run this indispensable food production themselves, in order to produce themselves large margins for the world market, for international markets, then no child is satisfied with that. trade agreements must also take this into account in the future, they must also do justice to this. these countries are also becoming increasingly dependent on the international commodity markets and on the fluctuations in prices on these markets. they become addicted to food speculation, and so the stock market becomes the determinant of whether a child can go to bed hungry or full at the end of the day. this is highly immoral and we must fight against it. poverty and hunger can be prevented by adequate support for local farmers. this is the only way for these countries to achieve food sovereignty. we need to further green our farming systems to adapt to climate change, because these are the countries that will be the first to be affected by climate change. both are fundamental elements in the fight against poverty and hunger.
mr president, the main message of our resolution is to strongly condemn the appalling hate speeches and wartime rhetoric of mr šešelj. this kind of incitement to hatred and the encouragement of territorial claims have no place at all in the europe of the 21st century. today we encourage all authorities in serbia, the government and the opposition, the political parties, non-governmental organisations and all individuals to fight against hate speech. i would like to outline that the european parliament stands by serbia on its european path. serbia itself has declared eu accession as its key strategic goal, and we can all acknowledge the progress this country is making towards this goal. serbia clearly belongs to our european family and has the capacity and ability to deliver and to get closer to the european union in the near future. we should support our partners in their efforts. this also needs to be the message of today’s debate.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not yesterday we heard from dr mukwege some very moving accounts of the most brutal sexual violence in the congo. he has repeatedly stressed that these systematic rapes in war are a method of warfare. today we are faced with a different form of warfare, but one that also relies on the degradation and destruction of women and girls. in september, we received reports of systematic attacks on yazidi families. women and girls are separated from their families, some are forced to marry is fighters, are subjected to sexual violence and are traded in slave markets. this sexualized violence is part of is strategy, which is part of a brutal campaign to erase all traces of non-arabs and non-sunni muslims. i would like to stress in particular that the international criminal court is already considering investigating foreign fighters of is whose countries of origin have ratified the statute of the court. but that's not enough. we therefore call on the iraqi government to ratify the rome statute without delay.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
ladies and gentlemen, we shall now vote on the motion of censure against the commission. this vote will be by roll call. the qualified majority and two thirds of the votes cast are required. before the vote:
the rules of procedure also prohibit the display of flags on the table. maybe you can wrap up your flag. (applause from the centre) (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.) the president shall then announce the result of the vote. 101 votes in favour, 461 against and 88 abstentions (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.)
we shall now proceed to the voting. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am sorry, but the devil of errors has crept into our voting list. we wanted to agree here, not reject. we are of course in favour of creating the best possible conditions for disabled people.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. politics begins with the observation of reality. if we do not like reality, we should change it through political legislation. we do not like what is happening with national tax policy at the moment, and i hope we can agree on that. we must of course harmonize tax policy. i therefore want the commission to work very quickly and without delay on this problem. that is why the commission must remain operational, and that is why i voted against the motion of censure. i am curious to see how the member states will behave. i hope that we can take advantage of the momentum which has now been created in europe harmonization of tax policy so that the member states too will finally give up their resistance and we can harmonize tax policy. i repeat: the commission must act quickly and remain operational. that is why a motion of censure is neither helpful nor useful. it is simply and poignantly populist.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too voted today in favour of the motion of censure and therefore against mr juncker and his commission. i would have liked to have voted for a further and independent inquiry into the allegations, but that is clearly not in the interests of the majority of this house who want to have an independent inquiry into the allegations. that is why the vote was now only on a motion of censure, yes or no. this is a purely factual question, which is not to be judged ideologically and not by right or left: do you support this commission or do you not support this commission? we in the alternative for germany have already made our position very clear on two occasions. we did not vote for mr juncker as president of the commission and we did not vote for the commission as a whole. it is therefore only logical to decide again on this matter, in a completely non-ideological way, in the same way, that is to say, in favour of the motion of censure. it is not a question of right or left, as i said, but of clear expertise.
in writing. i only voted against the motion of censure with 'long teeth' because i am opposed to anything in common with the far right of parliament. here are the reasons: i am therefore voting against the motion of censure because i have already voted against the commission because of the people i regard as unsuitable: moscovici, katainen and juncker! the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's budget for the financial year 2000 and to approve it. the ecr group, on the proposal of the afd, had tabled a more appropriate motion for a resolution than the motion of censure now tabled by the 'far right'. even this one they did not want to support (if it gets serious, you have to lie!) jean-claude juncker's unbreakable loyalty to the grand coalition of socialists and epp (cdu/csu). the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the maastricht treaty, and it is not surprising that the commission has been able to take part in the negotiations on the maastricht treaty. it goes without saying that this vote is not a sign of any cooperation with the far right in parliament. it is rather a precautionary measure against the schizophrenic policies of the euro-omantic majority in this parliament.
in writing. - as the ecr group, we have always rejected jean-claude juncker. he is the wrong man to be credible as president of the commission. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has already tabled its own request for clarification. the aim of this was to establish the responsibility of jean-claude juncker and to call for his resignation. the motion was rejected by other groups. we are therefore obliged to support this motion out of concern for the future of the european union. the prosperity of european states depends to a large extent on the credibility and widespread acceptance of both the eu's top-level staff and its procedures.
in the case of the commission, the commission has not been able to take action on the basis of the information it has received. we have tried everything to bring a motion of censure into the plenary as gue/ngl. unfortunately, we were not successful, because the greens and the socialist group refused to support them and thus supported juncker. that is why i cannot vote against the motion of censure. but i cannot vote for this motion of censure tabled by the fascist/right-wing bloc, such as the national front, jobbik and other opportunist groups. they only want to exploit the mood of this scandal and accuse juncker, but not the whole system of tax havens and deregulation that is behind it. that is why i abstained.
in writing. i have agreed to the motion of censure because i do not trust commission president jean-claude juncker. his misconduct in not only tolerating but actively promoting luxembourg's tax haven policy for decades robs him of all credibility as the leader of the european commission. as president of the commission, he is committed to promoting the common good. but as luxembourg's finance minister and prime minister, he systematically undermined this public good by making secret agreements with companies, allowing them to be taxed favourably in luxembourg, even though most of their production and value added did not take place in luxembourg. even if this was legal, it was not legitimate. it was clearly against the interests of the partner countries, which lost important tax revenues. states rely on tax revenues to finance public services. states are in competition with each other in terms of the supply of public services and the taxes which finance them. i think this competition is important and right. mr juncker has massively distorted this competition by allowing companies to avoid paying their taxes where they benefit from the public services of their country of residence. it was anti-european, anti-solidarist and deeply unfair. that is why i do not trust mr juncker.
in writing. the recent revelations about the creation of a system of targeted tax avoidance in luxembourg under then prime minister juncker are just the tip of the iceberg. moreover, these findings are hardly surprising. the commission's work is not only a matter of the future, but also of the future of the community. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as a representative of the german electorate, it is my duty to express my vote of no confidence in this commission, which is being run around by billions of people without any purpose.
i also agreed to this motion for a resolution and i also co-signed it. this proposal is, in my view, extremely important because as has already been said here there is a delay in the preparation of the individual funds under cohesion policy at the moment, especially for 2014. it is clear that the question of cohesion policy and the question of those funds is particularly important for the economically less powerful countries of the european union, where in short there is a significant investment effort and significant public money that helps in the development of infrastructure. i'm from the czech republic and i can say the numbers for the czech republic. since the czech republic's accession to the european union alone, the czech republic has thus managed to obtain over czk 333 billion in excess of the money it has provided to the european union budget. it is therefore clear that, despite the problems of drawing on these funds, these funds have a positive impact on the states and it is necessary to continue so that at least part of the money is used up in 2014.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for the resolution and i would like to make only three comments. the first point is that cohesion policy is important and should also lead to a rapprochement of living conditions. we must of course look under the heading of better spending to see that the money is used properly. but i would also like to say that in my region, cohesion policy has not only proved its worth, but that there is a movement underway. the new länder in germany, the east german länder, are increasingly losing their status as so-called target areas. they are getting better, and this is not least due to the european cohesion policy. second, it's the same game every seven years, it's not going right. that is why we should also put in place transitional political provisions so that the programmes can really be implemented and that we do not always come to this standstill. thirdly, i would ask the member states once again to finally transfer their outstanding membership dues so that we have enough money in the coffers for this cohesion policy.
in writing. while the juncker commission is already announcing its supposed €315 billion stimulus package, it is lagging behind in cohesion policy. the resolution i support calls on the commission to take a firm and prudent approach to the eu's own economic measures in cooperation with the member states.
in writing. small and mediumsized enterprises make an indispensable contribution to german and european economic strength. the innovative power of smes protects jobs and our location. the commission's action must therefore be more deliberate. however, in its concern for large enterprises, the eu regularly forgets that they depend on the strength of smes. i therefore support this draft, which calls on the commission to improve impact assessment with the involvement of parliament's committees.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for the resolution and i would like to make three comments from the point of view of the committee on petitions. firstly, it should be made very clear that the violation of children's rights is not just a problem in developing countries, but also in the member states of the european union. secondly, when it comes to children's rights, we in the committee on petitions always have the problem that the member states always point to their own responsibility and are practically closed shop, often with little dialogue with the institutions of the european union. thirdly, a very important experience: when it comes to children's rights in particular, we should try to introduce a rapid procedure, because the law is one thing, enforcing the law is another. the fact that it takes several years in the european union to resolve various legal issues is not good for the child. that is precisely where we should continue to work.
in writing. of course, everyone in his right mind is committed to the rights of the child. indeed, it is distressing to see how many children today still grow up in poverty, exploitation, malnutrition, disease, lack of education, and lack of affection. it is heartbreaking to see how girls are treated in comparison with boys in islamic countries. it is terrible to see children suffering every day as a result of war. why are children's rights not human rights? aren't they human? when are there resolutions for the elderly, the old and the very old? since no resolution is going to change anything about the way our children are treated, and since human rights apply to all people anyway, i could not vote for this resolution!
in writing. i have agreed to this declaration because the un convention emphasises the fundamental rights of children, the enforcement of which in all countries is an important task of the international community. these include, for example, the right to education, to protection from physical abuse, to protection from sexual abuse, etc. i do not agree with the demands to codify the rights of children to defend themselves against the parental responsibility for their upbringing. parents have the right and the duty to educate their children. intervention by a supranational body or a national legislature in this core area of the family is justified only in the case of serious breaches of parental duties or significant impairments of the child's physical, mental or social development.
in writing. the family is the basic cell of the whole society! children's rights are not conceivable without parental rights and duties. and as we celebrate children's rights here today, we should not forget that every child has parents. but they have a right to be recognised by society for their contribution to their preservation. in addition to their importance for their own children, children are the prerequisite for a society's continued existence. the refusal of the ruling parties to speak out and promote this clearly shows their contempt for the contribution made by parents! children's rights are human rights, there is no need for special rights for children against their own parents.
in writing. the motion for a resolution on the 25th anniversary of the convention on the rights of the child is unacceptable both in its procedure and in its content. it was negotiated behind closed doors and presented to members only in plenary. of course, political correctness requires not being against children's rights. however, the un convention on the rights of the child explicitly recognises children (minors, under 18) as independent legal subjects (age of majority) without parents (guardians) and natural frameworks (family with father and mother). the resolution also mentions the 'family' only when cuts in social benefits are criticised, fathers or mothers are in prison or their migration background gives rise to discrimination. parents as social cases, as prisoners or as immigrants provide the eu with the pretext to define the rights of all minor children and to ensure that they are respected until they reach the age of majority. the ep also calls for comprehensive sex education for minors. the only demand for free and unrestricted access to contraceptives and abortion was voted on at the initiative of the ecr group (not at the initiative of the epp/cdu-csu). in 2002, the social democrats called for 'air sovereignty over the cribs' in the eu parliament, with the cdu and csu voting in favour alongside the spd. this resolution provides proof. i voted against it.
i voted for this motion, i also co-signed it. i want to comment on a specific part, the last sentence of article 10, which has caused a great deal of media reaction and has been perceived by some journalists as an attack on a specific company, the google company. the approved material does not name any company, but merely states that the european parliament is inviting the commission to consider proposals to separate search engines from other commercial services, which is one of the possible long-term ways to achieve the above objectives. i personally see this as an attempt by the european parliament to draw attention to the possible monopolies that can arise here when search services are combined with the provision of other commercial services, and that such monopolies are always to the detriment of consumer rights, they are harmful to the citizen-customer. it is therefore logical that the public authorities, in this case the european commission, should be involved. it's just one of the solutions, the ultimate solution, and i hope that's how it's perceived.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for this report for at least three reasons. firstly, it has been established that we have a catch-up. this is the modern infrastructure of the 21st century. we have a single market and we must of course also integrate digital technology into that single market. this means freedom of movement for everyone. but this also means that we must prevent a monopoly. secondly, what we've just seen with networks and mobile phones is that the economy doesn't solve everything. it is thanks to the european union that we have been able to work together to reduce roaming charges and other special taxes that mobile operators have devised. this is a good signal, also for consumers. thirdly, as a member of the committee on agriculture, i am particularly pleased that the european union has always had a heart for rural areas. because it has been repeatedly stated that it is precisely the rural areas that need to catch up, and economic development in rural areas also needs digital connectivity.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too voted in favour of the resolution on strengthening consumer rights in the digital single market, because i believe that we also need fair competition in the digital world. i would like to make three brief observations. first, there used to be bottlenecks in internet access for isps. that has now shifted, as has the shift of market power to the big platform operators. this is why it is politically important to focus on the platform operators and to keep an eye on what is happening there. secondly, we need a broad political, public debate. i reject the unbundling, i.e. the separation of business sectors, as formulated in the resolution, because it is too far-reaching. but the question of how to create fair conditions here needs to be discussed intensively politically. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but it is fair that we - as members of parliament - should also look at what is happening in the digital world.
in writing. a common digital single market gives all member states the chance to put the eu's weight on the balance sheet to ensure citizens' privacy is protected. data protection, privacy and consumer protection can be effectively defended by the size of the internal market. the eu is called upon to protect children in particular from the shallows of the internet. in addition, the digital single market that i advocate promotes innovation, economic growth and ultimately job creation across europe.
i have the answer, too. but i think mr kelly could not accept that i said: 'this week mr tarabella will be the parliamentary closing point.' so we voted on motion no 11 by roll call. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the explanations of vote are closed.
in writing. the human right to food, especially that of children, is constantly violated. if this parliament is serious about tackling malnutrition, then action must be taken immediately to stop the increasing use of arable land for organic spirits. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. here the majority parties of the house are called upon to face the consequences of their actions! take responsibility for your actions.
ladies and gentlemen, thank you all for being here. i would like to thank the services provided in this chamber and especially the interpreters. i wish you all a safe journey home. i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 1.30 p.m.)
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 27 november 2014.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. freedom of the media and media pluralism are fundamental values of the european union. turkey is a candidate country with which we are negotiating accession. but our relations with the candidate countries must be marked by mutual honesty and openness. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. problems with freedom of the press and expression are nothing new in turkey. we have noted with great surprise the raids against journalists and against social media following the protest in gezi park. now, we saw another wave of raids on anti-government media yesterday and we are concerned that this is a sign that the trend against opposition media is a dangerous one and one that we are particularly watching. ladies and gentlemen, this applies to all democratic states of law: criticism must be met with arguments, ideas and evidence, and not with retaliation, intimidation and arrest of journalists. i have therefore asked my services to ask the turkish embassy for immediate clarification of the events and i would like to say at this point - and i am sure i speak on your behalf - that we will be watching very carefully what is going on in turkey.
in accordance with rule 105 (6) of the rules of procedure, the chair of the conference of committee chairs informed me that no objection had been raised to the recommendation of the committee on international trade not to raise objections to a delegated act. the recommendation shall be deemed to have been adopted if neither a political group nor at least 40 members oppose it within 24 hours. in that case, it will be put to the vote. the recommendation is available on the plenary session website. the committee on transport and tourism has tabled a correction to a test adopted by the european parliament. pursuant to rule 231 (4), this amendment is to be deemed to have been accepted unless a political group or at least 40 members request that it be put to the vote within 24 hours. the text is available on the website of the plenary session. the title shall be published in the minutes of this meeting.
mr glezos, i think it is good that you have written to ask for a word on the rules of procedure. but then the contribution must also be one to the rules of procedure. what you have just said may be discussed politically, but it has nothing to do with our rules of procedure. this is the classic case for the one-minute speeches we have provided for in this house. so, mr glezos, the next time you want to make a statement of this kind, put it under the heading 'one minute remarks'. i am not going to go into the details of the procedure, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commissioner has taken the initiative to put forward this report.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 11 december 2014 in accordance with rule 152 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: monday:no amendmentstuesday:in consultation with the political groups, the six duda consolidation reports, which were scheduled for a vote on tuesday, will be postponed to a later part-session. is there any objection to this? i'm not sure. the duda reports will then be deferred to a later part-session. ladies and gentlemen, i have received from an infinite number of groups a request for a debate on the commission's programme of work with a resolution. the groups should now agree among themselves who among them wants to speak, because i have all the group chairmen who have tabled this motion at practically the same time. mr lamberts, it was about what you are about to say. your group would like to see a resolution.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. firstly, we consider the first year of the commission to be a very difficult one. secondly, all the political groups have delivered opinions on the commission's priorities for the 2015 work programme. thirdly, there was a debate in the conference of presidents with mr juncker, with mr timmermans. the group chairmen have already been able to see how the commission representatives are reacting here. fourthly, it is planned to present not only the measures to be taken by the commission next year, but also the notorious 'killing list', and we have received a great deal of information and also protests from parliament that in particular projects such as the clean air and waste programmes cannot simply be left behind. we have therefore every reason to discuss this matter here this week and to table a resolution.
i'll take that. who would like to speak against this? i'll take that. we have now a very broad proposal, namely that the vote be held this week. i shall put this motion to the vote first. this is mrs. zimmer's application. (parliament rejected the request) i now put to the vote mr pittella's motion. (parliament adopted the resolution) wednesday:the green group has requested a statement from the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy and vice-president of the commission on freedom of expression in turkey, in relation to the recent arrests of journalists and media leaders - the subject i have just touched upon.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not first of all, thank you for bringing this up. i think that everyone who followed the news from turkey this weekend was breathless about these attacks on the opposition, critical press. it is important to note that the debate on press freedom in turkey has been developing negatively for a long time before gezi park. even before gezi park, critical journalists have been jailed without any real rule of law process. gezi park has once again brought us all to the forefront of a backward development in turkey. it is high time we had a say in this. we should be debating this this week. i think the proposal by the other group chairmen to table a resolution on turkey in january is absolutely right.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i do not want to speak against it, of course. i want to vote for rebecca harms's motion. but the motion by mr le hyaric says that we are going to take a resolution this week. i think that what rebecca harms has asked for is much more sensible, namely a debate this week and then a resolution in january.
the first thing to do is to decide whether we are going to put the item on the agenda. does anyone want to speak out against this? that's not the case. i would therefore ask that we vote first on whether we should include this item in the agenda. (parliament adopted the resolution) the pronunciation is already fixed. the high representative will have to comment on this this week. the question now is whether you want to adopt a resolution afterwards. i would ask those in favour of a resolution to raise their hands. who's against it? this week, when else? this has been requested, this week has been requested. let's make it very specific. mrs. harms, did you request it for this week or for january? you applied for it this week.
i think the european parliament should make its views known as soon as possible. but i also think that the european parliament should be as united as possible. the impression i have gained from the talks over the last two days is that we should calmly negotiate a proper debate and put it to the vote in january.
i didn't quite get that from your message. but you've got it all figured out. so we've fulfilled all the wishes. we shall discuss it this week and adopt a resolution in january. i shall now put this to the vote. (parliament adopted the resolution) the ecr group would like to ask that the vote on the motion for a resolution on the recognition of palestinian statehood be postponed until thursday.
i call for a vote on mr messerschmidt's motion to postpone the vote to thursday. (parliament rejected the request) (the agenda is therefore adopted.)
the next item is the debate on the recommendation of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the draft council decision on the accession of the european union to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) (09412/2014 - c8-0042/2014 - 2013/0418nle)) the commission has also received a number of complaints from the member states.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. according to a report by the world wildlife fund, the number of animals living on earth has been cut in half in the last 40 years. the situation is just as dramatic for other animal species, and more than 70% of all plant species are already considered threatened. in addition to natural extinctions, the main causes are anthropogenic: climate change, deforestation, marine pollution, mass livestock farming, the use of pesticides and insecticides, but also the trade in wild animals and wild plants, estimated at several billion euros per year, for example, 1.5 million wild birds and some 440 000 tonnes of medicinal plants are traded each year. we have a moral obligation to stop this madness before tens of thousands of animal and plant species are wiped off the face of the earth forever every year. we can stop species extinction by fighting climate change, by taking action against rainforest destruction, by reducing mass livestock farming, but also by tightening trade restrictions. a useful way to do this would be to increase the eu's influence in the forthcoming cites negotiations by becoming a full member of the eu. because the truth is that protecting endangered species often comes at the expense of national economic interests. we must prevent this, the eu must prevent this. i would like to conclude by saying that we need the earth, but the earth does not need us.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we had an interesting debate in the environment committee on the fuel quality directive. it has just been said that we have realistic values here. if values are reduced by 40% from 2011 to 2014 - 40%! - then you have to be very careful. you have to ask yourself, what's the reason? have any new environmental aspects been added? no, i don't think he did. i believe it has something to do with negotiations for a free trade agreement. i can only say and warn you: if this continues in the future, with the laws that have been introduced as part of the climate and energy package being watered down and destroyed in the comitology procedure, then we will soon be able to pack up, because then we as the european union will become a joke in international negotiations. that is why we should either meet and reach a compromise and the commission should make a statement today. i'm glad you're here today, but i was expecting someone else, or two, to be there as an alternative, but i'm glad you're here, the one we're discussing with. i would have liked the commission to come here with a clear statement of how we are going to get the cow off the ice. so we're left with only one choice, yes or no. and the pendulum is swinging in the direction of no, because we are providing the blueprint for future negotiations on free trade agreements for all international partners who want to negotiate something with the eu. let's just lower the bar. you just have to lobby hard enough, and you'll get it done. we must say no to this politically, we must say no to this environmentally, we must say no to this climate policy. and that is not how parliament is treated at the end of the day! it is a presumption to throw values through the cracks as has been done here in the last three years. that's a lot of nerve!
the commission has already done so. this is not an efficient implementation of the fuel quality directive, but a dangerous dilution of the directive itself. i agree with the criticism that has been voiced here on many occasions. what made you change your direction? you have recently done analyses which have clearly shown that tar sands are much worse in their climate footprint than conventional fuels of this kind. what's changed? i am not saying that the situation is the same, it is the same tar sands and no different, but it is likely that your policy has changed. so this cannot be accepted here, because it is not clear why we should do this. we know that motor vehicle traffic is a big part of this, and we need to do something about it. we have already seen dirty fuels coming onto the market in the 1990s, and that is precisely why this directive was drawn up. we've seen this coming with new technologies -- tar sands, shale gas -- and we wanted to differentiate between the better fuels and the worse fuels. it's not credible for our politics if we bend over backwards. you've seen the lobby, you've heard it, you've felt it, but if we set a precedent here, the school will do. then others will come along who want the same thing, and we can no longer make policies that serve climate protection, but only those that serve client interests. this parliament is opposed to this. i don't think the cost to market participants is that high either. you can make this differentiation with simple means. in the age of the internet, it's not at all difficult to track that. so we have to reject it. defend the beginnings! no precedent for the dilution of our policy!
i have to say, madam president, the point is that we want to reduce life cycle greenhouse gas intensity by 6% by 2020. this has been said and made clear on many occasions. it is now clear that the commission is also very disappointed that the objectives have not been set out ambitiously enough. the fact is that you said after a five-year process in the impact assessment that the average greenhouse gas intensity per fuel is maybe a real compromise, that this should be reported, this should be recorded. there are a number of things to consider that could be said against the fact that what you said is now being rejected. the first is that, of course, europe's competitiveness is a factor, as is its dependence on imports, and for example, whether small and mediumsized enterprises can always withstand them. i'm not interested in big business or canada. i would like to ask the commission to give us some more answers. the fact is - i have been following this whole debate - that it is quite obvious that the ambitious objectives should not be pursued now. this is not in the interests of europe, of course.
member of the commission. - madam president, ensuring effective and consistent enforcement of the eu rules in road transport is a priority for this commission. we are fully aware that it is also of paramount importance for this parliament. it is an obligation for drivers and operators to respect and apply these rules. daily enforcement is primarily the responsibility of member states. this proposal on common classification of serious infringements is there to help member states to improve compliance and thereby increase safety on european roads. its adoption would provide member states with a common basis for assessing the good repute of transport operators in the event of infringements. the commission has worked for over two years in order to come up with a balanced proposal on classification. this work should not be wasted. i know that some of you would wish to be even more ambitious and extend the scope to other infringements, in particular those of a social nature. others evidently believe it goes too far. we all know that the glass can be seen as half-full or half-empty. but this proposal is clearly in line with the objectives and within the limits of the mandate this parliament, as co-legislator, gave to the commission. accordingly, it would be difficult to explain to european citizens that the text on the table, which aims specifically to facilitate cross-border compliance with eu rules, may not be adopted. road safety comes first for me; and whatever your decision is, i will continue to work with parliament on this subject. but let me stress one more time that, among the negative consequences of possible rejection, we would face legal uncertainty for enforcers, unequal treatment of drivers and operators, as well as ineffective or even non-existent exchange of data on serious infringements between member states for quite some time to come. please keep this in mind when you vote. please also note that we will always continue looking for new opportunities to keep our roads safe and working conditions fair. finally, i would like to confirm again that the commission is committed to continue the work on better enforcement of this acquis, and we hope that we can do so in close cooperation with you.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we may be doing something unusual today, but we're not doing anything inappropriate. the european parliament has been given the right by the treaty of lisbon to review wherever the commission is given the task of drawing up clarifications or technical details and of laying down the specifications for implementing a directive by means of legislative texts. and that's exactly what we did. we have looked at what the commission has done. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community. i would have been happy if you or your predecessor or the services you now head had done what is stated in the directive over the last two years. if we look at the delegated act, we see that it does not help to clarify things, but that everything is vague and unclear. the purpose of this delegated act is to clarify and clearly specify when a serious infringement has occurred and not to put it back in the hands of the administrative authorities of the member states. in other words, the political will of the legislator has not been carried out, but has been ignored. the commission shall distinguish in its delegated act between minor, medium and serious infringements. that is generally welcome. but if you look at the categorization, the grouping - what is a minor, a medium, a serious violation? - everything is vague again. there's no answer to that. but that is exactly what we have asked the commission to do: to put it in a delegated act. i would point out that we have a variety of laws and regulations in place regarding road safety. if i look at what is in your delegated act and if i look at what we have in the directive on the transport of dangerous goods, for example, things do not fit together. that is to say, the commission has also done something different here than is stated in other legal texts. what i and the epp group fundamentally reject is that the transport industry and the many drivers who travel every day, so that we in europe can also experience the added value of the single market, should be placed under general suspicion. we have an image of an entrepreneur and an employee that is positive. you have an image that is negative. the epp group therefore considers that this delegated act should be rejected. i hope we get a sufficient majority this week.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, welcome to the european parliament, which i believe is your first appearance here, certainly not your last. i am well aware, commissioner, that what is being presented is not necessarily coming from you. i think that is fair to say that you have taken over from your predecessor, mr kallas, from the last period. now, of course, we know that in times when the european union is trying to liberalize freight transport more and more, and we are also trying to make everything more efficient through innovation and technical means - and i am already talking about my predecessor - workers are getting a little behind. the european logistics industry, if you look at it, has a turnover of 900 billion euros a year. that's good, that's good for her too. but we must not forget those who contribute to this turnover. these are the workers who transport our goods, the goods we need every day, from a to b in the european union. i think that is why we must add this aspect, and this has not been done sufficiently in the present proposal. if we look at the negative effects of the so-called illegal cabotage - and i am sure you agree with us on this point, commissioner, as you have clearly stated many times in the hearings that you will not allow social dumping - we are now in a situation where the protection of workers and social standards are being seriously undermined, and i think we must simply stand up for these values. we must ensure that the categorization as it is is finally supplemented, and we have also told your department and its staff that we are asking for it to be supplemented in order to clarify things such as letterbox companies and social dumping. we will also reject this proposal as it stands, and i hope that we will eventually be given a majority to reject it on wednesday, in the hope - and i am happy and pleased about that - that you will then finally take it up and use it as an opportunity to draft a better bill in a relatively short time and present it to the european parliament. i think that we can all work together again on the content and we can work out the definitions clearly again. then everyone knows what's wrong with them. but the list is not enough at the moment, and please don't take it personally. but we will also reject it because it is not enough.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i also warmly welcome your first appearance in the house, madam commissioner. this is actually something historic for you, so to speak. i like the way you explained that you want to work very closely with us in the future and that you also say that what we have now is suitable for creating legal clarity, eliminating legal uncertainty and at the same time also being able to better punish all those who commit crimes in the transport sector. that's what should be done. you didn't do it yourself, your predecessor did. but for two years we have been considering what can be done to make it easier to hold offenders in crossborder road traffic accountable. it has been said that some people do not think this is the best way of doing things. i too am missing some details in the proposal. but overall, this is a step in the right direction. we now have a possibility - and it is necessary - of saying more precisely how the rules are to be implemented. this gives the member states the confidence to act accordingly. it was the case that, of course, some from the sector wrote to us - especially in germany, there were many bus operators - who were afraid that the 12-day rule could be abolished. it's not really like that. i've looked into it, and it's not. on the contrary, it is to be preserved naturally, and bus operators know this by now. we can - mr ferber said this - reject what the commission proposes in this case, that is always the right of parliament. but i have the feeling that mr ferber, in what he said, contradicted my own conceptions, because he said that certain things are not regulated clearly, with minor, medium and serious infringements. at the same time he spoke of a general suspicion against all transport operators. i think that is contradictory. i think it is wrong to show parliament's strength in this case now, when it is a question of taking a step forward in punishing the black sheep in cross-border traffic. that is why everyone should think carefully about how they will vote.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to this circle for your first speech. as chairman of the committee on transport, i would like to stress that there is agreement among all the groups that fair competition and social conditions must finally be given the proper importance. the committee therefore strongly advocates that the existing laws be finally enforced in our streets too! the commission has been negligent in this respect in recent years and has not fulfilled its role as guardian of the treaties. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat social dumping. a truck driver who spends his weekly rest periods of 45 and 66 hours in the driver's cab alone is a major threat to road safety. besides, it's against the law. that's why it has to be stopped. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. both have been deleted. it's not understandable, and it's wrong. that is why we want the existing laws to be respected. commissioner, you can know our committee by ensuring that the laws are respected, by tackling the problem of black sheep in all modes of transport, by ensuring fair competition and, above all, by starting the revision as soon as possible.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the classification of the infringements of the union rules on road transport, and only those infringements, which may lead to the loss of the reliability of a transport operator, is clearly the responsibility of the european commission. the objectives are to create a level playing field, to create legal certainty and to prevent serious road accidents with fatalities and serious injuries. in order to make the list presented by the commission a binding criterion for assessing reliability, it is necessary first to clarify any remaining uncertainties, second to focus on the most serious infringements that is, to delete certain aspects and third to include missing aspects in the list. for example, the existing problem of professional drivers living and sleeping in their lorries for months at a time, which is directly linked to social dumping, must be solved as soon as possible. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the introduction of a community system for the collection of statistics on the number of persons employed in the motor vehicle industry is a very important one. it is a clear, manageable, meaningful, bureaucratically-reducing list in the sense of the objective. we need such a list to prevent road haulage companies which repeatedly and systematically violate a number of existing eu regulations from being registered without opening the door to arbitrary acts on the basis of a patchwork of rules. but this list must also save those who follow the rules unnecessary trouble. i see good opportunities to adapt this list to the new economic and social policy strategy of the european commission as soon as possible. in conclusion, i would like to say that even the best list is useless if compliance with the existing rules is not also monitored consistently, efficiently and in a non-discriminatory manner at member state level.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as coordinator of the european socialists in the committee on employment, i am very grateful that the committee on transport, together with my colleague ismail ertug, has also rejected this list from the commission. i have been in close contact for many years with truck drivers, with trade unions, with small and mediumsized enterprises, and what i see on the roads of europe is a disaster for workers, but also for small and mediumsized enterprises. there are motorists who drive across europe for 300 euros a month and - colleagues have said this - sleep in the cabs, spend the day and night in the lorry, and this really borders on modern slavery. this is causing a great deal of trouble for those concerned and for the companies which are working legally, which are also taking the social security of their employees seriously, because they are not able to cope with this pressure, this pressure to undercut. the increasing liberalization is to the detriment of workers, but also to the detriment of companies that treat workers properly. the logistics sector also shows once again how freedom of competition has been put above social rights in recent years - this must change. the transport of goods and goods is a cross-border activity, and checks on infringements must not end at the borders, but must be carried out across borders, there must be exchanges. a list must include violations of workers' rights and social rights. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the implementation of the prima (partnership for research and innovation in the mediterranean) initiative by mr jerzy buzek, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-000092/2014 - b8-0046/2014).
member of the commission.– madam president, thank you for giving me the opportunity to set out briefly the main elements of the review of economic governance that the commission published on 28 november. the commission has already had an opportunity to discuss this topic with the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) on 2 december. i am looking forward to discussing this important topic further with you today and in the period to come. let me start by recalling that the economic and financial crisis revealed important weaknesses in the original economic and monetary union set-up. in response, europe has taken action on a number of fronts. action has been truly impressive, especially compared with what was considered feasible just a few years ago. the euro area has been significantly bolstered by the setting up of a strong permanent firewall in the form of the european stability mechanism to ensure financial stability. we have created a banking union to address the fragmentation of the financial sector and to facilitate access to financing. finally, we have strengthened our economic governance in order to reinforce economic and budgetary coordination. the six-pack and the two-pack are the core elements that have led to the strengthening of economic governance. they have led to a strengthening of budgetary surveillance under the stability and growth pack, the broadening of the scope of surveillance to include the area of macroeconomic imbalances as well as countries experiencing difficulties with financial stability, and to the codification in legislation of integrated economic and budgetary surveillance in the form of the european semester. in line with the legal requirements in the various pieces of legislation, the commission has concluded a review of these new instruments. broadly speaking, the review clauses require us to assess three elements of the six-pack and two-pack. first of all we have to assess the effectiveness of the regulations; this means to what extent the new rules have been effective in achieving their objectives. secondly, we need to evaluate the impact of the rules on enhancing closer coordination of economic policies, and finally how the rules on the new economic governance have contributed to sustained economic governance in the european union. due to the limited time span since its entry into force, experience with the application of the new governance system has been limited and a number of specific instruments remain untested. this concerns more specifically the excessive imbalances procedure. furthermore, the system has so far been applied in specific economic conditions during and in the aftermath of the severe crisis. this limits the possibilities for judging the effectiveness of the systemʼs preventive role. for these reasons the review the commission published in november is short and factual and takes stock of the application of the new instruments since they have been in force; that is, autumn 2011 for the six-pack, and 2013 for the two-pack. it discusses separately the issues of fiscal surveillance, macroeconomic imbalances and the framework for countries experiencing difficulties as regards financial stability. it also briefly discusses the interlinkages between the various elements. the review also highlights some improvements introduced by the six-pack and two-pack reform. notably it has deepened and widened economic governance and has contributed to achieving progress as regards fiscal consolidation and correcting macroeconomic imbalances. finally, the commission’s review identifies some possible areas for improvement. this relates mainly to the complexity of the system with regard to overlapping instruments, as well as to the complexity of some of the specific instruments themselves, for instance in the stability and growth pack. complexity could pose challenges for transparency and implementation. the commission’s assessment also points to the need for increased ownership of the necessary reforms in the member states, which could help step up implementation of the reform recommendations under the european semester. this would improve outcomes in terms of growth, imbalances and convergence. finally, the review highlights the need for better involvement of national parliaments and stakeholders to ensure better legitimacy and accountability. our system of economic governance can only reap its full potential if it has ownership of all relevant stakeholders. this includes notably this parliament as the key institution to ensure the democratic legitimacy and accountability of eu-level economic policy decisions. the commission therefore sees the review document as a starting point and a basis for dialogue and debate on the appropriate way forward in the coming months. i look forward to hearing your views.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the european people's party naturally welcomes today's exchange. we support the commission's positive attitude to the existing legislation on the six-pack and two-pack. we see a trend of budget deficits slowly recovering in most member states of the european union. we also support the commission in its regular calls for deep structural reforms by the member states. we also believe that economic reforms are the right way forward. we support the commission when it says that the stability and growth pact as it stands has a future. this also means that the commission should not hesitate to apply existing rules. the stability and growth pact is the starting point for a successful, competitive and promising european economy. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the age of debt-making and calculating has not brought success in the medium or long term - quite the contrary. we have seen a spiral of debt and financial market crisis. it is a shame to say that compliance with the stability pact is preventing investment and growth in the member states. the stability pact is not a barrier to growth. the stability pact reminds member states of their obligations to manage their budgetary resources in a sustainable, efficient and forward-looking manner. these are unpleasant truths, i'm sure. nor can a positive investment climate be induced if reforms are not simultaneously undertaken. any examination of flexibility must be approached on this premise. the credibility of the stability and growth pact must not be jeopardised. there must be no distinction between large and small member states. we therefore expect the commission to act in the interests of european stability. and we expect the commission to show a clear edge against those member states which are reluctant to reform and hesitant.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. i think it is very welcome that we have this debate today. it is a debate on the two- and six-pack, but in a more general sense it is also a debate on the success of economic governance in the european union. if you look at it from this wider angle, then it's obvious that this debate is a debate about the failure of this kind of control. because in the beginning, there were rules, and they were clear, simple and transparent. the rule was that there should be no more than 60% debt, no more than 3% new debt, and there was a principle of non-assistance, that each state was responsible for its own debt and no state was responsible for the debt of another state. those rules didn't last. they were relaxed in 2005 with the reform of the stability and growth pact and replaced by more complex rules, by less transparent concepts such as structural deficit, the precise definition of which, i believe, few members are able to reproduce. this structural deficit should now have been reduced by at least 0.5 percentage points from year to year, and for countries which are in an excessive deficit procedure, by up to 0.8 percentage points. but we didn't see anything like that. the reduction in the structural deficit has been achieved in small and very small units, far from the target of 0.5 percentage points per year. then, in 2010, the non-assistance clause, the crucial building block of the stability and growth pact, was also broken. instead, the esm was created. the european union has created shadow budgets in the form of the efsf and the esm, where new debt has been created that is not attributed to individual countries. the two-pack has been introduced, the six-pack has been introduced, the european semester has been introduced, a very complex set of rules of scoreboard indicators has been introduced, so that now any kind of fiscal policy can be justified by any kind of indicator, so that the rules have become completely arbitrary. ladies and gentlemen, this is the wrong way to go! it is making everything more opaque, more complex and more arbitrary, and thus opening up opportunities for states to continue to act irresponsibly, as we are currently seeing, particularly in france. we must return to the one and decisive rule, which is the principle of non-assistance. if we go back to the principle of non-assistance, then each state has its sovereignty, its financial and economic policy decisions to be taken in the way that it can itself be responsible for, against the background of the fact that it itself and only it will have to pay its debts. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. then you can just focus on reminding the states that the debt that these states make is owed by these states and the taxpayers of these states and no one else. this is a perfect incentive to return to reason and responsibility within the eurozone.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the average level of national debt was already too high before the introduction of the euro. it was already too high before the economic and financial crisis. it's too high now. that is why it is strange that some colleagues in this house are calling for more debt to combat excessive old-age debt. this cannot be the right way, but we must get out of the debt trap, and that can only be done through structural reforms. the introduction of a common currency also requires institutions to promote the common interest. that is exactly what was done with the two-pack and six-pack programmes to strengthen the stability and growth pact, which was, incidentally, first broken by gerhard schröder and the german government and the french government. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are observed. the crucial moment is when we enforce the rules and here, commissioner dombrovskis, we are putting our hopes in you. in latvia, you have shown how a country can return to growth through structural reforms. the commission has also made a great effort to ensure that the community's citizens are not forced to wear seat belts. meanwhile, there is a light at the end of the tunnel. the countries have returned to a growth path. the crucial question now is: what are the countries of italy and france doing? the commission must ensure that the rules apply to the large countries as well as to the small ones, that they are applied jointly, and we want to insist on that. and we expect you, commissioner dombrovskis, to enforce this with the commission. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. whether the term sixpack is a clever one or not remains to be seen. but one thing is clear: what i notice in the european union is that we don't believe in ourselves. when we talk to people in other countries around the world, in india or in the asia-pacific region, they point to us and say, "what do you have in europe? you have infrastructure, you have excellent universities, you have great health care. if you can't get back on the growth path, who can? other what bothers me is that we're discussing currency. the euro is neither the cause nor the solution of the problems. we need to get into the real economy, we need technology, innovation, growth. then it's like a six-pack for a well-trained athlete.
i'm not going to tell you. they have submitted a review of the rules we have reformed here. it was a very controversial piece of legislation at the time. your review paints the situation in a pastel. because the rules we have agreed on here are not the kind that you would dare to apply really consistently and even to create transparency about whether these rules are currently being applied. if we look at whether the structural deficits of the euro countries have really been reduced as agreed at european level, we must note that 14 out of 18 countries have not been able to meet their agreed-upon recovery measures. but now some colleagues are saying that there is no such problem, that the rules must be applied strictly. if you did that, you would be leading europe into recession. so it's only right that you've given them a little more space. but at the same time, you can't just stand there and say, "the rules are all fine". secondly, there are colleagues who say that we should reduce these more complex rules back to simple, simple rules, which are then simple and hard. they're procyclic. the answer to the problems of implementing the tightened rules of the stability and growth pact is therefore a common economic policy in the euro zone, i.e. an end to fiscal competition, and a clear common fiscal policy, where the countries that are economically stronger invest more so that others have more room to restructure their budgets. what is the council of the member states doing? the council of member states is not implementing this common economic policy, but is leaving mr draghi in the dust at the ecb. he is trying to stabilise the eurozone by means of further measures, and what i reproach you with, commissioner, is not that you could simply change this, but that you are going in the right direction with the investment pact, but that you are not clearly identifying all these problems and shifting responsibility to where it belongs, namely to the council, which is not prepared to make the necessary common policy in europe that we need for the euro. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr giegold, you said that the simple rules are procyclical. if we have a state with a balanced budget, it can increase its new debt by 3% according to simple rules. with a government share of about 20%, this means that you can increase government spending by about 15%. what's procyclical about that? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i'm not going to tell you. the problem was not the situation when the economy was not working. in fact, the euro countries have always met or even exceeded this 3%. the problem was that we didn't have any rules to make sure that the debt ratio was also brought back down when it was running. the old rules of 3% and 60% which you have represented here were primitive, simple and sham solutions, because they did not contain any commitments in the good times. so, frankly, your execution was too easy, and your refocusing on the bad part was just as one-sided.
madam president, and in particular commissioner dombrovskis! you really impressed me today. they've accounted for all the packages we have here, the two-pack, the six-pack, the fiscal pact and all the pacts. they have listed the successes that these measures have had so far. i wrote down all the successes on this white sheet of paper. it's completely empty. they have simply described the successes of four years of action without giving a single figure! you didn't give me a number! you are not standing here today in front of 100 members of parliament, but in front of 500 million citizens of the european union, and you are declaring that these are your achievements. i think that's extraordinarily thin and small. the rest, the great majority of this house, are clamoring for compliance with the rules. the rules must be followed. the fdp colleague, mr theurer, has just called for the abolition of tax competition - an extremely liberal approach, mr theurer. all measures taken here are failing. and when you have the opportunity to say what the successes are, present us with a blank sheet of paper. we're going the wrong way!
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i am surprised to hear you say that the euro has helped greece to restructure its debt. is it not rather that it was the goodwill of the creditors that led to the debt restructuring, that they waived your claim of eur 100 billion, and that greece would have been able to pay its debts if it had had its own central bank and its own currency?
member of the commission.– mr president, first of all i would like to thank everyone for the interesting debate we had today. as i said at the beginning, the commission sees the follow-up to the review, and the process of strengthening economic governance in general, very much as a dialogue with all stakeholders. the european parliament is a key partner in this respect. i have carefully taken note of the remarks and points raised. they will help us to see the strong points of the economic governance framework, as well as the areas for improvement. similarly, i very much look forward to the work being done by ms berès and the shadow rapporteurs in preparing their own-initiative report. a number of points have also been raised by colleagues that are probably somewhat outside the scope of the review of the six-pack and two-pack. nevertheless i will make some brief responses to those, because there were a number of questions as regards the best use of flexibility within the stability and growth pact. as you are aware, the commission is preparing some more detailed guidelines or a document on the best use of flexibility within the existing stability and growth pact, precisely in order to look into this issue. we will be presenting this document early next year and looking at various issues, including a number of issues raised on taking into account economic cycles, the treatment of investment, and the treatment of structural reforms. but once again, it is worth emphasising that we are making this document within the framework of the existing stability and growth pact. more specifically, on the question of the treatment of investments for the european fund for strategic investments: this is something which the commission outlined already when presenting the investment plan. the commission will treat that kind of investment favourably, understanding that, while – just like any other expenditure, it would count towards deficit and debt – it would not trigger specific procedures under the stability and growth pact should the member states exceed their thresholds of whichever procedures by an amount no larger than their contributions to this fund. we are really ensuring this favourable treatment. of course, it is clear that the topic of strengthening our economic governance system is far from finished. i am looking forward to engaging with you and other stakeholders in intensive debate during the coming months. written statements (rule 162)
written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the debate is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 11.50 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon)
in writing. ‒ mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am delighted with the re-election of emily o'reilly as european ombudsman. the european ombudsman is an important institution, because it is the one to whom citizens can directly complain and to whom they can ask for inquiries into maladministration in the eu administration. even if the ombudsman can only make reproaches and recommendations for what should be different, better and more citizen-friendly, her statement has a high political weight. this is why this body is an effective tool against administrative arbitrariness and bad organisational structures in the eu bureaucracy! mrs o'reilly has been in office since last year and has many years of experience as an ombudsman in ireland. it's good to have continuity with her for the next five years. i therefore wish her every success in her new term of office.
in writing. ‒ it is good to see the european commission doing its duty to the citizen for a change. in view of the developments of recent years, it is indeed time to withdraw the outdated directive under discussion here. this is a law that can serve as a model for many other areas of the eu. the commission and parliament would be well advised to consider the need or rather the non-need for a whole series of regulations. the eu must also learn to reduce its role for the benefit of its citizens, rather than expand to seemingly limitless proportions in every area of people's lives.
i have to say, madam president, i think we can all agree that it is a good thing that the european union has joined the convention. of course, one may ask, why now? the truth is, of course, that this has not been possible before. so far, only member states and no associations have been able to join. this has been possible since 29 november 2013. i am also glad that we have taken the opportunity to put our weight together as the european union. and mrs girling was right: we must of course also make use of this. so i think it's a good day for endangered wildlife, too. the convention covers 35 species, and it has been rightly said that there is still a lot of abuse in illegal imports and exports. finally, there is good news: the european union must of course also pay membership fees, but this amount will then be reduced from the membership fees of the member states. so this is good news for the member states of the european union. they now have to pay less because the european union is taking over the contributions.
in writing. ‒ preserving the natural diversity of our planet is essential for the future of all humanity. the destruction of the environment cannot be in our long-term interest. the protection of wild fauna and flora is a matter of great importance on the international stage and it is good that the european union as a whole is taking part in this. i shall therefore support their accession to the cites convention. i am all the more determined to do so as a good practice continues to exist. the member states are not seeking a consensus which the eu must implement and represent. this is precisely the eu that is truly desirable. i wish the representatives in this area the strength to continue to promote this european consensus ideal and to reconcile the interests of all the states.
in writing. ‒ scientific cooperation is basically a very positive thing to start with. i also appreciate the good relations which the european union has with morocco. it would be naive, however, to think that a sector such as satellite navigation could be clearly classified as a civil sector. the issue may be a civil one, but nothing can guarantee that the consequences will be purely civil. navigation is always also called position determination, which is already very close to the dual use area. and then the well-intentioned research cooperation must also be asked how it believes it can ensure that the work of the democratic opposition to the moroccan royal family is precisely affected by these dual use items in their work.
in writing. ‒ i voted for croatia's accession to the european economic area because the afd believes that under full eu membership, each european state can participate in a flexible network of different speeds according to its needs and possibilities. this is a central part of the afd's electoral programme, and i personally share this view without reservation. the eu's accession of croatia can only be considered once all the accession criteria have been met and the eu has been consolidated in its present form.
in writing. ‒ by welcoming croatia into the eu, the eu has also set out a roadmap for full integration into the european community. the participation in the european economic area is only logical. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. i would like to say at this point that i welcome the progress made by croatia and at the same time i would like to encourage further progress. in future, the croatian border will be partly an external border of the eu. all member states are urged to assist croatia in stopping the illegal flow of people and capital across this border. this requires an honest analysis of what the eu and croatia can do to ensure this goal.
in writing. ‒ the single market is a fundamental achievement for the european union. it is clear that there are certain inequalities in this area, which are being counteracted with the aim of reducing them through subsidies. but it is totally unacceptable that whole areas of the eu are excluded from the constitutional rules of the internal market through the back door. the proposal that is being put forward is no different. the fact that the overwhelming majority in parliament is accepting this shows once again that they are more concerned with petty regulation than with fair competition and economic growth.
in writing. ‒ i consider the proposed members of the board to be experienced, well qualified professionals in all cases. however, i voted against the appointment as i am opposed to the srm as part of the banking union in principle.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we received shocking news from pakistan this morning. in one school, more than 120 people, including more than 100 children, were murdered in cold blood by the taliban. there are other people in the hands of these terrorists. this appalling and cowardly crime leaves us speechless and speechless, and once again demonstrates the inhumanity of the taliban, their inhuman ideology, their ruthless fanaticism. what is most shocking to us is that they do not stop at the murder of children. our thoughts are with the victims, their families and friends. we express our solidarity with the pakistani nation. i would like to express our deepest sympathy on behalf of the european parliament to all the families of the victims. we wish the injured a speedy and complete recovery. i believe i speak for all of you when i express our deepest abhorrence not only of the crime itself but also of the spirit of the criminals here.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the commission work programme for 2015 (2014/2829 ((rsp)).
i think the flag-waiter has fallen victim to the belgian strike. he usually comes and hands out the flags and picks them up on thursdays. next time, you'll have the union jack.
no, the british flag is not offensive. i just noticed that you obviously didn't bring any today. otherwise, we've been used to you raising your flag here for many years. i am not aware of any of my predecessors or myself having objected to this. by the way , let me tell you something . you complained about other people holding up posters. at the brussels meeting you mentioned, your own group held up posters for at least half of the italian part of your group. i wish you'd protested, too.
mr arnott, you have spoken to the rules of procedure.
thank you for your advice.
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr vice-president of the commission! you have announced that you will make this commission more political. i don't blame you for that. quite the contrary. what we're talking about today is whether this is going to work, and what pathways we can take together to achieve this. we cannot say what your ideas are on the work programme, because you are not presenting them to us today. but the document that was leaked last week doesn't show that enough, because in many ways it's not even close. i don't know what it is, but we should talk about it. i will try to explain this to you with a single example. this house has enforced in the last election period in the banking regulation with the report of my colleague karas that from 2015, from next year, all financial institutions must prove country by country where they make what profits and where they pay what taxes. that's a good rule of thumb. mr karas is sitting there, he listened attentively, you were able to welcome him, he has done this for the european people's party. mr lamberts is sitting there, he spoke. he's the one who pushed this through for the green party. i was a shadow reporter for the social democrats, we pushed this through for the social democrats. is it so unfair that my group expects you today, in the light of the discussion we have had about tax avoidance practices, to finally extend this to all multinational corporations? why is this not in your work programme? it would ensure that many avoidance practices cease to exist overnight and that we can finally achieve fair taxation and justice for the taxpayers in europe. they say, i assume this is a recent development, there is an action programme until june next year. i very much hope that will be included in this action programme. it is a good example of how we can work better if we listen to each other, if we reach out to each other and if we are in dialogue. you want partners, you have partners. but this is not a one-way street. we have expectations of this commission.
mr president, mr president of the commission! the epp representative has just presented your programme as a christmas tree and the vice-president has lit ten candles on it. these are your top ten priorities. i have to tell you that i have a problem with your fifth priority, namely the deepening of monetary union. in fact, it is clear to everyone that the world economy has been growing faster than europe for some time now, and europe is growing faster than the eurozone. so we have a problem particularly in the eurozone. i cannot help but remind you that the euro is far too strong for the south of europe - including france - and far too weak for germany. this is evident in youth unemployment in southern europe or in the export surplus in germany. i wonder when we will stop subordinating the different fiscal and economic cultures in europe to the needs of a single currency and when we will start creating a currency that reflects those cultures.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr juncker, you spoke of securing europe's future in a work programme of 23 investments. i have 60 seconds to ask. let me ask you this first: where do you intend to invest in order to combat the causes of migration, instead of increasing the pressure on the european labour market with 24 million unemployed by integrating and legalising immigration? they talked about fighting tax evasion and tax fraud. taxation, you said, must be paid where it is earned. how credible is that in your luxembourg model? should tax justice then apply to employees too or only to entrepreneurs? where's the investment in social justice? do you think that the single currency, the euro, will continue to be an effective means of combating national differences in europe?
i trusted you personally to do that. but i don't want this to be about me. i have been travelling a lot in my constituency in germany in recent weeks and have often asked people: 'if i meet president juncker, what should i say to him? other i would like to make five requests to you: two young apprentices from frankfurt, who spend christmas every year as volunteers in a refugee camp, said: change your refugee policy, find together european rules that work and help people. a young family of three from st. ingbert said, "make sure that tax justice is not just for the big corporations, but for us, for families. the senior manager of a bakery in dresden criticized: "don't always make your laws at your desk. send all eu officials to a practical placement so they know what they are negotiating about. a single father in berlin said: 'check europe's policies for their child- and family-friendliness.' i personally call this the european family strategy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by thanking commission president juncker and vice-president timmermans for discussing this work programme with us today. i very much welcome the fact that this programme includes concrete initiatives to help implement the commission's ten priorities. it is important to emphasise that europe must once again focus on the big things, the big problems, and less on the small ones. i would like to encourage you today, as the commission, to make a thorough review of existing legislation and, in the end, to have the courage to withdraw unnecessary legislation. our citizens expect us to take initiatives to improve legislation, and our companies rightly expect us to reduce bureaucracy, to be more proportionate and, above all, to have better access to finance and to finance. the commission's priorities are therefore certainly a promising approach. i would like to emphasize two priorities in the brief i have been given. firstly, as a new impetus to promote jobs, growth and investment: the investment package is certainly a very important and significant stimulus to restore confidence in the european economy. and then, of course, the deepening of economic and monetary union. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the reforms and will continue to monitor the implementation of the reforms.
mr president of the european commission, commissioner, i would like to ask the european commission once again to take preventive action in the milk sector. the sector may face severe difficulties and high price volatility, often in areas where there is no other economic alternative, as milk quotas will end in 2015. i come from the azores - which contributes 30% to milk production in portugal - which are self-sufficient and exporters in this sector thanks to a strong individual investment in better technology and a proper supply management that has allowed them to get a return on that investment. i ask the european commission to show political will so that viable solutions can be found for the regulation of this market, so that any structural changes can be anticipated and the setbacks can be prevented. at the level of marine management, alert to the need to ensure that the delegated acts of the european maritime and fisheries fund are actually used for the purposes mentioned therein and not for short-range expedients.
member of the commission.– mr president, it is still new for me to listen to your voice and not think you are passing judgement on the economy of a member state. but i see you now in your new role, and i will certainly get used to it very quickly. i have little experience in the european parliament, and i am learning very quickly. i was a member of a national parliament for many years. i was elected six times. you get used to the way of working in a national parliament, and now i have to get used to the way of working in the european parliament, which is different. for instance, i would have loved to answer mr farage, but he apparently did not have the time to wait for our answer. this is something i am not really used to in a parliamentary debate, but apparently that is the way we do things here. secondly, a document was leaked last week. president juncker and i were very upset about that because it really does not help us to work very well. what happens is that it creates a huge row in the media and you all react to that. even today, many of you went into that leaked document. i decided, with my parliamentary experience, not to react. i could have gone out immediately and said: ‘this is bogus. this is not what we are doing. we have a different line and we are going to take a political decision on how we work’. but, out of respect for parliament, i did not do that because i thought that i need to present the commission work programme in parliament and not in the media. so you are always fighting with at least one arm behind your back if somebody leaks a document and you do not defend your position when everybody here reacts to a leaked document. i would ask you, if i show the respect which i think i need to show to parliament to present our plans here, then please also listen to what i say and react to what i say – not to what you have read about a leaked document in the press. it would make our work a lot easier if we listened to each other. i try to listen to you. this is what we have decided as a commission, and this is what we are going to do. indeed, on the environment, we are going to – as i have said, very clearly – maintain some existing programmes. we are also going to have an overhaul of the waste package, but to make it complete in terms of the circular economy and to make sure that it can benefit from the opportunities that the juncker plan will offer in terms of investment for the circular economy. we will not lower our ambitions. we will not do that. we will not lower our ambitions in terms of providing cleaner air to europeans. we will not do that. but we will change some of the proposals on the table, because we believe that either they are creating an unnecessary burden and we can do better in terms of the quality of the regulation, or the commission needs to assume its role as independent proposer of legislation seriously by trying to bring the other institutions together to really make a decision on the quality of air. that is our role. that is what we will do, but as part of a positive agenda – not by lowering our standards. likewise, on social matters, it is of extreme importance for this commission that we do bring things a step forward. i was asked about that particularly as regards the commission work programme labour mobility package. we want to support mobility and tackle abuse, because there is a lot of abuse and abuse does undermine freedom of movement in the european union. we also want to allow workers to benefit from openings for jobs in other member states if that is at their disposal. how will we do this? we will have an enhanced eures database on vacancies throughout the eu; we will update the social security rules; we will ensure better implementation of the posting of workers directive so that it cannot be used to abuse the rules; and there will be – as we have announced – a targeted review of the posting of workers directive, starting in 2015, to ensure that there is no place for social dumping in the eu, because we see social dumping in the eu today. just go and talk to people in the transport sector and they will tell you that. so this is where our ambition lies. if we talk about the position of women – and this is extremely important – we are not just talking about what is morally right: that i, as a father, can absolutely not accept that my two daughters are in a worse position on the labour market or in society than my two sons. this is unacceptable to me. but there are also clear economic reasons. we are hurting europe’s economy because we do not create a level playing field for women in the labour market. so we need to move on these subjects, but we also need to be pragmatic about this. the proposal for a directive on maternity leave has – for many member states – already been completely bypassed by reality. it has been on the table – blocked – for eight years, so member states have taken steps that go beyond what is in the proposal. we want to improve the situation, and if that means that we can do it on the basis of this proposal, let the other institutions show us and we will facilitate it. but, if it means that this is not going anywhere and we are not improving the position of women in the labour market, we will take other initiatives to make sure that we do go forward on these issues. had mr farage still been here, i would have said that on one point i actually do agree with him. it is good to have a debate on things we agree upon. i would have told him that he is right when he says that there is too great a burden eu-wide placed on small and medium-sized enterprises. we need to do something to lift that burden on small and medium-sized enterprises. if you lift the burden on small and medium-size enterprise, very quickly they will hire one, two or three extra people, and that is a direct contribution to fighting unemployment in the european union. in that sense, i thought that mr farage, for once, really had a european spirit. i am sure that he was not on tranquilisers. he would then have told us exactly what he felt. i think that is what we have learnt from ukip these days, but i also want to engage him in this debate on how we go forward to improve europe. i have one final remark, since this was raised by many of you. of course there are many important issues. but just because an issue is important, it does not mean that europe then has to act upon that issue. if we want to improve the situation in the labour market, and if we want to improve the social situation in the member states, this cannot come just from the eu. the eu has a role to play there, but it is just as important that member states actually take steps forward. that is why i would propose that the commission and the european parliament make an extra effort to engage the council in these debates, because many of these things will have to happen in the member states. therefore, member states, represented in the council, will have to be engaged if we are to take these few steps forward. once again, we have prepared the commission work programme and decided it today. we present it to you today, and, as far as i am concerned, this is the opening of a dialogue. it is not the final word from the commission. we are willing to listen to you very carefully to make sure that we actually deliver on jobs, growth and the other priorities president juncker agreed with the european parliament when he was elected.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to say that we will have to change our way of doing things. i was at a meeting of the committee chairmen where everything was said and no conclusions were reached. we have attended meetings of the conference of presidents with frans timmermans. now it's as if those meetings never happened. we have also been careful to present the commission's work programme to you instead of to the press. we do not comment on what we have said, we comment on... (the president interrupts the speaker)
president juncker, i also understand speeches in a normal language, so there is no need to draw a picture. i understand things quickly when i'm explained. secondly, i would like to say that i would like to have a meeting with the president of the conference of presidents on the method to be used when presenting and discussing the work programme. today was partially frustrating, for you and for us. since we are not responsible for organizing the continental frustration, let's change our rules and our reciprocal and collective behavior. thirdly, i would like to return to certain points in order to clarify them. we listen to parliament and we listen to the council. i note that no one has stressed this elementary rule of interinstitutional politeness. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. acta, ground services, other elements which have met with fierce opposition from parliament have been removed from the work programme of this commission. you were wrong not to mention it. if we stood before you and said, "everything is off the table, even the proposals you rejected. we will do as others have done: leave everything on the table, take nothing away and there will probably be 130 new proposals,' would you have applauded? we have done what we promised in this parliament and we will do it next year. we have presented a programme for 2015, and next year we will present a programme for 2016. as far as taxation is concerned, everything has been said and everything will be done. this was said during the election campaign, this was said during the presentation of the commission's guidelines. so it will be done. we've talked a lot about transparency. it's the hospital that's making fun of charity. with frans timmermans - he has worked a lot in recent weeks - we have made a proposal on internal transparency to the commission. commissioners, firms and managing directors must inform the public of the nature of their meetings and the identity of their contacts. i have not heard anyone say that parliament will do so tomorrow. do it now! be as virtuous as the commission! you can vote tomorrow on a resolution to your own name saying: 'we are going to do exactly as the commission does.' as regards greece, i do not understand greek and therefore i do not know exactly what the greek newspapers have written, but when i refer to the extremists in greece, do not defend the extreme right. i was thinking about her. it didn't even occur to me that you might be extremists, so i don't quite understand why the left of the left defends the far right. i hate the far right. i hate the far right! i am the president of the commission, but that does not mean that i have been emasculated by coming to strasbourg. i'm not going to change my beliefs. i can say things. i often say things in germany, france and belgium that are not to the liking of the authorities or the opposition. you will not take my floor when it comes to the essential elements of the european political debate. europe is political, and so is the commission. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. i welcome the intention of jean-claude juncker to withdraw 83 of the 452 legislative initiatives of the commission. not every issue in europe is also an issue for europe. it is important to set priorities; the eu must give more room to the member states.
the rapporteur. i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for his excellent report. i would like to begin by expressing my sincere thanks. i think that we as a delegation - our committee chairman arthuis is sitting there, my colleague who has just defended the house of commons and defended the budget of the european union, my colleague jose-manuel fernández, my colleague deprez - have really succeeded in negotiating a budget together, which was not easy to coordinate with god. i want to thank you for the great cooperation and the huge commitment from the heart. secondly, i would like to thank the commissioner and her team for fighting to get this budget through, and then the italian presidency of the council, which had difficulties at the beginning but then worked together to achieve the result, which is perhaps not optimal but at least shows a way forward. firstly, as regards the other institutions, i am grateful that we finally have the general administrative costs for the european external action service, that we can finally bring them together in a transparent and meaningful way, that we have reached an agreement with the ecj that we are finally seeking a solution for the new judges, that we have reasonably raised the entire reduction rate for the ecj, for the eeas, for the two committees, and that we have achieved synergy effects with the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions, as parliament and in cooperation, which is what we have set out to do. in other words, the problems in the other institutions were not as great as in the commission. in the commission's case, the old bills have really been the most troubling, and i would like to say one thing in particular: it is not appropriate that at the end of the new budgets we have, we should be left with only old bills to pay, and that we should have to slow down, artificially stop, the programmes which we have recently really developed over months, sometimes over two years, and which are beginning to be successful, so that we are still able to guarantee payment. this is an unacceptable situation. i therefore consider it a great success that we are at least once discussing the question of the payment schedule and the guarantee for the implementation of the multiannual financial framework and that we are also seeking a solution to this. i hope that the council and the member states will be more present at these meetings - i say this very clearly - than at the committee we wanted to have together on the agencies, the analysis of their tasks and subsequently also the corresponding financial allocation. i would like to ask the council to take the issue of the payment plan and the implementation of the new programmes seriously, because we want to move forward in this european union. the european parliament has not insisted on demanding more, but we have really been dealing with you and have met you in some difficult situations. but we also hope that you will give us the same consideration as regards the legitimate concern that old bills must be paid, that they cannot be left behind and that the european union must not go into debt, because that should be your concern too.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to join the social democrats in congratulating the general public. i would like to congratulate the presidency in particular. it cannot be emphasized enough that if, during a conciliation period of three weeks, the council takes most of those 21 days to find a common position, which then has to be overhauled after the first negotiations have been interrupted because it is not tenable, then the italian presidency can only be congratulated for having kept the council functioning with great difficulty. what's good about this result? it reminds me of what we experience with the council in phases of psychotherapy. again, the first phase of therapy is denial. we're over it. the council has just a few years ago said that the commission's figures on the backlog of payments were wrong. the problem of resistance is also behind us. the council is now ready to say: yes, we are ready to put fresh money into the european budget, because the payment crisis is also undeniable. that's good, we've moved on. but now we're at the stage where the cure has to kick in. i am glad to hear from you, madam vice-president, that you are already in dialogue with the latvian presidency of the council, because the latvian government must now be the one to implement this, namely to bring the payment plan to life. we in the committee on budgets of the european parliament can only imagine that you, madam vice-president, will report very regularly to us on the progress of payments. i hope the forecasts are right, that the money that's there now will be enough to contain the payments crisis. i'm not very optimistic about that. and we will of course also ensure that in future negotiations with the council, the promise is followed by action. we have seen in the past that paper can be very patient for the council. we will not allow it to be shaken in the future.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i welcome the commissioner, the representative of the council, and i thank, of course, all those who have been involved in the preparation of these documents, although we in the group of the european right are not at all satisfied with the result. we shall be able to adopt a whole package of measures this week. these are various budgetary appropriations for 2014. the first is disaster relief, and the second is technical adjustments. these are non-critical processes. we'll take these with us. the second is the financing of outstanding accounts. this is of course important, it's existential. but these compromises, which have now been worked out, are far from sufficient. the commission has now allocated some eur 4 billion in additional payment appropriations. but the eu has 23 billion euros of debt. and debt in the form of unpaid bills is, as the previous speaker said, debt that we have to pay. we in the group of the european people's party therefore reject these amendments. when we look at the 2015 budget, we also need to be clear about the starting conditions for 2015: at the beginning of the year we will have 20 billion euros of debt. this will reduce the available funds from eur 141 billion to eur 121 billion. at the same time, however, we have provided for the possibility of making 145 billion euro in payment commitments. so i ask myself and i ask all of you: how can this bill be paid? i dare say not at all, unless the eu passes new calculation rules. i wouldn't recommend it, though. if i remember that we have already made payment commitments of well over eur 200 billion which are not yet due, then the whole situation becomes even more dramatic. this budgetary procedure is far too complicated. we are talking about general reserves, special reserves, flexibility instruments, special financing, on top or not on top. all of this is not transparent. this reminds me of a speech by george orwell, who once predicted that politics would eventually speak in a way that the public would no longer understand. if i remember that the commission's original proposal was for 142 billion in payment appropriations, the council says 140, parliament says 146 we have now come back to 141. the mountain gave birth to a mouse. (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we shouldn't talk nice about anything that isn't nice. in october, parliament clearly called for payment appropriations, i.e. money that can be spent in real terms in 2015, amounting to eur 146 billion. now there are 141 billion euros on paper. in concrete terms, cuts are being made in cohesion policy, i.e. the structural funds, and also in education and culture, such as erasmus+ and creative europe. we think that's irresponsible. once again the council is giving us the choice 'kill or die': either agree to a budget that is totally inadequate or risk an emergency budget. that's what we call a joke! that is why my group does not agree with this blinking.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the two rapporteurs in particular. that was heroic. researchers, innovation and growth in europe will be grateful for this commitment. i would also like to thank the commission for not having given up on its second budget proposal. but one thing must be said: in the field of innovation and in many other fields, we are dragging the problems behind us in payments of almost double-digit billions. we have reached a point where directors and managing directors must consider whether they can still sign contracts because they are on the verge of budgetary fraud. this problem is stabilized, but not solved. i would like to make it clear once again, and not just in the context of the interest of the horizon budget: if horizon becomes a stone-cold for either austerity efforts or the search for new programmes, simply because it is easier to plunder the programme rather than deal with the council in substance, then i warn against the next round of budgetary discussions. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council. we are exchanging investment for investment, and that will not lead to more growth in europe. there must be burden-sharing if we are to make this programme, and we must not take the easy way out again: we take it from a programme which the member states do not allocate, then there is less political resistance. this is precisely what is costing us the innovation in europe that is then the basis for investment and growth.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the presidency of the council! i would also like to end by once again thanking you for the difficult but successful task. but i would like to add to this the words of my colleague, mrs eider gardiazabal rubial: in future, we in europe will be asked whether we are prepared to promote innovation, research, jobs and the future viability of the european union. we will not be asked only about old bills. that means we have to solve both problems: the old bill, but also the ability to innovate and the ability to direct our financial resources to that. that is why it is important to me that innovation programmes, even an investment package, should not be at the expense of innovation, as mr ehler has pointed out, but that we should draw on resources from other areas. and we'll have to discuss that for the future. i believe it is important that we in europe - whether in the field of information technology, in the field of future technologies emerging in the field of information technology, in aerospace, in the field of the european union's independence in matters of competitiveness in the most diverse areas - stand up for ourselves. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. a step has been taken, but many more steps remain to be taken. i'm grateful for that, but i also know that we have a lot of work to do.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 17 december. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the financial shortfall of the world food programme's aid agency for syrian refugees (2014/2996 ((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. all politicians want to get a lot of help for the syrian refugees quickly. but there's still no money. the world food programme is unable to meet its obligations. food is saved. the pathos of politicians is clear: they warn of death and misery. i will give you an example: the german federal government - my party is part of that government. she says it's the disaster of the century. you heard right, the disaster of the century. it rains, then comes the cold, then comes death. there's no shortage of compassion and drama. but what good is pathos and drama when we see the sobriety of the numbers? because the numbers are clear. the budget for humanitarian aid has been steadily decreasing since 2013, the budget is chronically and deliberately underfunded by member states. we're pushing unpaid bills in front of us. we should - and i am not saying this because christmas is coming - open our borders, we should open our hearts, but the member states must open their wallets!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. it is tragic that the world food programme has had to suspend its aid to syria, and it is perfectly clear that in this situation the european union has a responsibility to ensure that it can be resumed. the member states and the european union itself need to mobilise additional resources. we must at least acknowledge that without the political influence of the european union, the situation as we now find it might not have occurred at all. but we're still treating symptoms. it is not just about opening up borders and the purse strings here, but about really tackling the causes. we must also make the arab countries responsible, because the arab countries not only have the money, but they also have an ideological and religious responsibility. because the root problem in syria, that we're seeing there and that we're seeing across the region, is islamism, and that's not just something that needs to be addressed, but something that needs to be fought.
i have to say, madam president, people are starving precisely because states, including eu states, have not met their financial commitments and continue to fail to do so, even after the new appeal of the world food programme. some member states give nothing at all, others give far too little. this is about refugees, this is about vulnerable people. the conflict in syria did not come as a surprise to us until yesterday. winter has not come as a surprise to us either. we cannot wait for a political solution to the conflict. we must act now! syria's neighbours are now doing dramatic things. we must take that as an example. we must act now, we cannot put off until tomorrow. we cannot explain to anyone who is now starving, who is now freezing in the refugee camp, why he has to wait, why she has to wait until a political solution is found. we must act now. we must not leave the neighbouring countries alone, and we must not leave the refugees alone either.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the moldovan people are facing major economic, domestic and foreign policy challenges: how can the social and societal prospects of the small country be safeguarded in the face of the power struggle between the two major trading partners? my group does not object to the small gesture of allowing more apples, plums and grapes from moldova to be imported into the eu duty free. but much more is needed. what about the investment in infrastructure, without which the hopes of the population are disappointed? what concrete plans are there to build an independent strengthening and diversification of the moldovan economy, which will create new, good jobs? the most important political task, however, remains to reach an understanding with russia on peaceful and future-oriented cooperation. the eu commission must therefore finally create a framework from which moldova could benefit from the special knowledge of its people. this winter will be hard enough.
i have to say, madam president, goworit moskwa this is moscow speaking! i have just heard this from mr schaffhauser, and he is spreading the same rumor or the same fairy tale about coercion. if anyone in europe is using force against another state or against its neighbours, it is moscow, russia, not the european union. we're always staffed by volunteers. the reason is that we are here for the rule of law and for development in a democratic framework and these countries do not want to see their future in the old structure of the soviet union. we have responded well to pressure from moscow, to the politically motivated ban on imports of agricultural products, with these autonomous trade preferences. this is an appropriate response. it is part of our overall policy towards moldova. we also want to see progress on the major issues, to see that a viable government can be formed here, which will also make full use of the possibilities offered by the provisional application of the association agreement. the process is demanding. we also expect the necessary changes and reforms in the rule of law and in the public administration. but these are also the conditions for the european model to work in all areas of life. our experience is that our model is the one that can best give people the orientation for the future. that is why this is a step in the right direction.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the debate we are having today has a not insignificant antecedent: the european parliament and the european council have taken two important decisions in the past which have brought us to the situation we are in today, namely to decide quickly on such a proposal. firstly, the majority of this parliament decided that a country like ecuador, whose independent economic and social policies have led to a significant reduction and overcoming of poverty and whose average income is $4 000 per capita per year, should therefore be excluded from the european system of trade preferences. for ecuador, this will be the case on 1 january 2015. secondly, the council and the same majority in the european parliament voted in favour of the free trade agreement negotiated only with colombia and peru, which was originally intended as a regional agreement and which, from the point of view of ecuador, calls into question its own development objectives. president correa therefore wanted to conclude an agreement on cooperation and development as an alternative. instead of working out common objectives with all the andean countries, the european commission only allowed accession to the free trade agreement as an option. unfortunately, that strategy worked. in particular, the competitive situation, but we must also note the changing global economic environment for some of ecuador's most important exports has become so acute that now the government under president correa has agreed to accede to the colombia/peru agreement. however, this remains controversial in civil society and could put the complicated government coalition in a difficult position. do we want to? the present law now builds a bridge to allow ecuador to retain its trade preferences until the entry into force of the free trade agreement. in the interests of the people of ecuador, i will not oppose this bridge-building. i would like to point out, however, that in your present capacity, commissioner, you have deliberately turned a blind eye to the internal political situation in ecuador when you drafted the regulation. they have created a constant threat that they could tear down the bridge again at any time should ecuador adopt regulations that could be detrimental to european exports. this is to strengthen the economic liberal part of the government against the left in the government. my proposals to defuse this conflict were unfortunately not supported by a majority in the committee. a right-of-center majority in this parliament has also willingly given up the right of parliament to veto a commission decision to suspend, despite the expertise of the parliament's legal service, which considered the procedure of a delegated act to be mandatory. i personally consider this decision to be a mistake and can only hope that it does not become a precedent. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, i would also like to thank the rapporteur. however on the report as such, or on the matter rather, i am not completely happy because as the rapporteur, mr scholz, has pointed out, this is really showing how trade is not working for development, showing indeed how trade should not affect development. under the old conditions a regulation was put in place that effectively forces developing countries to make a choice as to whether they want to get rid of their preferred market access to the eu or sign up for a free trade agreement, even if that does not follow their development agenda and even if that is not what some in this parliament, at least, think should happen from a developmental point of view. i think this is effectively blackmailing and undermining a society’s right to development. this is precisely what happened here in ecuador. ecuador was forced to join the peru-colombia agreement otherwise it would lose its preferential market access. since we have a new commission now, i would really ask the commissioner to rethink the trade development nexus because i think trade can do a lot for development; but currently it is undermining it, unfortunately, and i think we should really work on changing that.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am very, very grateful to the rapporteur for helping to ensure that we can ensure that ecuador can retain its trade preferences and very quickly benefit from this free trade agreement. it would have been a bad joke in my view if a country which wanted to conclude a free trade agreement with us had been punished in practice for doing so and we had taken away trade facilitation, and it would have led to us actually having all the negative effects that mrs keller mentioned. that is why i am calling on your group to do the following: if we want development, we should not patronize the people in these countries, but we should take note of the fact that the democratic government in the country, the people's government, wants this agreement. we should not always know better, but we should also take note that in democracies, in the end, decisions must also be accepted and taken by majorities. so thank you very much for allowing us to vote on this this week. i am glad that we can now jointly take advantage of the benefits of this trade agreement for all the peoples of europe and also for ecuador, colombia and peru.
rapporteur.– madam president, i thank the commissioner and my colleagues for the debate. at least it has become clear that there is a strong desire for good trade relations with ecuador in the european parliament. i also want to stress that time is not always democratically sufficient. so therefore i want to stress that, for trade relations to be good, they need to be designed and in particular fair. in the coming months we will have the opportunity during the ratification process to thoroughly examine the agreements admitted. in particular the impact on employment and quality of life of the population, on the environment and also generally on the stability and integration of the whole region serve as a benchmark, mr caspary. i therefore strongly urge the commission to stop interfering in the internal political situation of the countries in the region that have chosen a social and economic policy that breaks with the new liberal credo and could finally open up real opportunities of development for the population that are true for their countries. as rapporteur for the ratification of the agreement, i shall very carefully watch whether the commission will ask ecuador next, even if only indirectly, to amend its legal acts or even its constitution to provide european companies better access to the markets for public procurement and public services. i would also like to advocate a roadmap, as was stressed during the debate, that outlines how the parties to the agreement want to ensure that the process of accession to the peru-colombia fta will not be compromising their social and environmental progress in ecuador, which we all want as a benchmark for the region.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council attaches particular importance to the renewal of the internal security strategy. this has been a priority for our presidency. i am therefore pleased to have the opportunity today to outline the council's view of the main priorities and actions of the renewed iss. considerable efforts have been made to ensure a follow-up to the strategic guidelines adopted by the june european council, which called for the review and update of the internal security strategy by the first half of 2015. the ministers' discussions on this began in july with the aim of providing guidelines and input to the european commission, which is expected to present its renewed communication on the iss in the spring. at the beginning of december the council reached agreement on various aspects of the renewed iss: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. these principles answer part of the question. the first is that the renewed iss should identify the main common threats and challenges in the field of internal security for the coming years. the council considers that these include organised crime and serious crime in all its forms terrorism, radicalisation and recruitment of terrorists, as well as terrorist financing the problem of foreign fighters, which has been recalled, returnees and lone wolves, which dramatically represent a particularly serious and unprecedented threat to the security of the european union. the council also identified threats arising from cybercrime and the use of new technologies in general, as well as the consequences of both natural and man-made disasters. the second principle should be the need to develop a comprehensive and coherent approach. this means involving a wide range of actors and integrating decision-making at all levels, from local to regional, to european and international. developing a coherent approach means that it should be global, multidisciplinary, integrated and intelligence-led. the availability and exchange of information to combat transnational crime and terrorism will be paramount and we will have to pay particular attention to new technologies. equally important is the dimension of justice. the coordination of investigations and prosecutions in the member states should be encouraged and improved, including through financial investigations aimed at confiscating the proceeds of crime, as well as the efficient use of joint investigation teams and mutual legal assistance and mutual recognition procedures. we also need to strengthen our operational cooperation and develop our border management capabilities; this requires the use of cutting-edge technology. a third key principle is the need to include the growing interdependence between internal and external security. the renewed internal security strategy will have to take account of the external security dimension and vice versa. the issue of foreign fighters is a clear example of external aspects having a significant impact at the domestic level. a fourth principle should be respect for fundamental rights. the strategy must contribute to a union that protects its citizens, while fully respecting their rights and freedoms, as well as those of those who are visiting or staying in the european union. it should also facilitate the promotion of social inclusion and social cohesion, the last but not least important principle. the renewed strategy should focus on implementation and apply existing instruments and legislation and strategic measures. the council proposed that the commission submit to the european parliament and the council an annual report on the actions undertaken under the strategy. this should allow us to monitor developments and provide regular updates on measures taken to strengthen internal security in the union. the council also asked what the timetable for adopting the new internal security strategy was and how the council intends to take account of parliament's input. the european council set a specific deadline for the review and update of the internal security strategy, namely the first half of 2015. much will of course depend on the timing of the commission's communication but we understand that it will probably be available in the spring. i therefore hope that we can have a renewed agreement on the iss by june 2015. as you know, the presidency organised, together with the commission, a high-level conference on the renewed iss in september 2014. several members of this parliament were invited to this conference, where mr moraes was one of the main speakers. the results of this meeting have been a useful input to us in the drafting of the council conclusions on the iss, but we have also taken account of the final report of the commission on the implementation of the iss, which in turn took account of your resolution on the subject. the libe committee was also briefed on developments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i look forward to hearing your views on this matter. i am sure that some of the recommendations contained in your motion for a resolution are to be found in the renewed iss. i am referring in particular to the need to make better use of existing instruments before creating new ones, to the need for a comprehensive, balanced and holistic approach and for more effective operational cooperation between member states. you also referred to the importance of the judicial dimension, as well as the need for adequate democratic control.
member of the commission.– mr president, this oral question tonight is taking place under the shadow of an abhorrent crime that was committed this morning. i would like to express my sorrow and repugnance at the loss of innocent lives today in pakistan. in a civilised world brutal attacks like the one today in a school in pakistan are an insult to humanity, a crime against humanity, and to whatever human beings across the world hold sacred. this horrific event and the ruthless murder of innocent children depict the abhorrent face of terrorism. terrorism is a global threat, it is a global menace. in the european union we are committed to the struggle against terrorism and we are working closely with our partners so as to protect the right to life of all peoples irrespective of race, religion or ethnic origin. honourable members of parliament, i want to thank you for having given me this opportunity tonight to reflect with you on a renewed eu internal strategy. the renewed eu internal security strategy, the new european agenda on security, should be a common agenda when the security of our citizens, their rights, our democratic values, the well-being of our societies and our economy, are at stake. the union’s institutions need to work hand in hand. we need to find the common ground on the main threats, principles and priorities when renewing the internal security strategy. the commission sees a clear need to have all european institutions working together to formulate and, secondly, implement the future european agenda on security and wishes to facilitate this process. in reviewing the internal security strategy the commission will build firstly on the preparatory work undertaken in the course of this year; secondly, on the justice and home affairs council conclusions adopted on 5 december; thirdly, of course, on the resolution parliament intends to adopt tomorrow. these contributions will guide our work for the months to come. i suggest that once the commission communication has been issued, parliament and the council engage in a dialogue to find common ground on the future of european security to provide effective, swift, practical and achievable solutions. your resolution sets out a broad security approach based on fundamental principles, instead of listing specific legislative and policy actions. this corresponds with the ambition of the commission to provide a strategy-driven agenda which will connect to existing or already envisaged measures. the resolution also highlights the importance of finding a balance between continuity and change. we need to foster and strengthen what works, and adapt things where evolving or expected developments require new actions or the revision of existing ones. the implementation of legislation and the consolidation of achievements, as well as enhanced practical cooperation, will be priorities for future work. consequently, monitoring and evaluation of the effectiveness of legislation and policies is essential. 1 december 2014 heralded the era in which justice and home affairs policies were finally set on an equal footing with other eu policies, thanks to the full application of the judicial review by the court of justice and the enforcement powers of the commission. this will benefit the required monitoring and evaluation and will enhance citizens’ rights and legal security. close monitoring of the implementation of newly adopted instruments on the procedural rights of defendants and victims’ rights and on improved application of existing instruments on judicial cooperation in criminal matters will strengthen the judicial dimension of the internal security strategy, a point which has also been highlighted by your resolution. the commission intends to continue to submit regular reports to parliament and the council on actions taken under the european agenda on security. this would assist you in monitoring the implementation of the strategy and will strengthen its democratic oversight. as regards the content of the european agenda on security, the commission cannot at this stage go into the details of what its future communication will set out. however, there is no doubt that we have to continue to fight international and cross-border crime, prevent terrorism, address radicalisation and recruitment, work against cybercrime, protect children from abuse, and increase europe’s resilience to crises and disasters. this is not new. what is new is that the actions currently covered have to be adapted to address evolving challenges and threats. the actions should be based on an intelligence-led approach providing guidance on how to effectively tackle rapidly evolving security challenges. a coherent set of risk and threat analyses by europol and other relevant european union institutions and bodies, in close cooperation with the member states, should operationalise this approach. this requires close strategic and operational cooperation, and the exchange of information between law enforcement, judicial authorities and eu agencies is fundamental. we have to work more closely on prevention and protection. access to information and information exchange, innovation and research will ensure a clearer link with the external dimension and cooperation. a citizen-centred approach and the integration of fundamental rights in all actions should be the guiding principles of the european agenda on security. the commission will be particularly attentive to the implementation of all envisaged measures and instruments and will assess their compatibility with fundamental rights as enshrined in the european union charter of fundamental rights. respecting the charter requires that measures which interfere with fundamental rights are proportionate. in the context of that balance, fighting threats to public safety or indeed the fundamental rights of others are legitimate objectives. trust and confidence in the institutions is also a matter of concern. security policies must be seen as serving citizens to keep legitimacy and support. citizens need to be better informed of the problems, and the implementation of internal security policies is not only essential for making instruments effective but also to strengthen the credibility of the institutions in the eyes of citizens and demonstrate to victims that action is taken. to ensure that eu internal security also means acting beyond eu borders and in cooperation with third-country partners, important steps to integrate external and internal security measures have already been taken. these are, for example, the establishment of the cyber security strategy. but much more needs to be done and those measures need to be followed up and further put into practice; for instance, by strengthening the operational link between the euʼs internal and external security policies. i fully support the emphasis that you have put on having an integrated, comprehensive and holistic approach to priority areas. different policies and actions, going beyond the public sector too, need to be integrated if we wish to tackle security concerns in all areas effectively while facing financial constraints and safeguarding fundamental rights. the renewed eu agenda on security could also benefit from research and innovation. the european union needs to continue mobilising the tools essential for security preparedness and resilience, in particular information and communication technologies and technologies in the forensic field, whilst respecting fundamental rights. it could consider using its research and innovation programme horizon 2020 and pursue cooperation between law enforcement and the private sector, notably to develop more technological autonomy. finally, increased legitimacy in the eyes of european citizens requires the full association of this parliament and the involvement of national parliaments. in addition to former reports on the progress of the strategy’s implementation, the commission is committed to engaging in regular dialogue with this parliament and to debating relevant matters with national parliaments. i look forward to working together with you in the council on this new european agenda on security.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. international security and our own strategy and response to our security questions have become more complex than ever in the last two or three years. we had a committee here in the last parliamentary term, the so-called crim committee, which dealt with international organized crime and its pan-european and global networks. it's terrifying to see what happens in that context. we are faced with a growing international terrorism and extremism which is putting us in dire situations, as we see today in pakistan. we've reached a point in cybercrime where international networks challenge us every day, and the ordinary bank robbery has become a small dimension compared to the billions of dollars of damage that happens online every day. we will have to make better use of existing instruments, as claude moraes has said, because if administrative assistance is still taking months for some of them today, it is far too slow for the criminals. we will need to be faster, more flexible and better coordinated. but we will also have to answer some questions where we will have to reconcile security and protection of personal data better than we do at present. we're gonna have a lot of questions to answer here.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the security situation in europe has changed dramatically in recent years. in germany, this is the number one issue at the moment. people no longer feel safe, and people feel betrayed by politics with their fear. that's why they're taking to the streets every monday by the thousands, and they're getting more every monday. politics must take these concerns seriously and must not defame the citizens who take to the streets. politics must take responsibility and act. the political parties cannot sit back and hope that the problems can be solved. have the courage to talk openly about your concerns. let us face the facts. that's the only way we're gonna solve these problems.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, we greens support the idea that the european union needs to have some sort of security strategy. i believe a lot of people are currently feeling insecure in europe, namely minorities, whether migrants or muslims who are now under threat in germany and elsewhere from the friends of the people on the right side of this house. we need to fight against organised crime and other serious crimes, for example fraud and environmental crimes, but we do also see some very worrying aspects in the current trend to make everybody a suspect and to put everybody under suspicion. i do not think this is the way forward because we need to protect our freedoms. that is what we actually want to do, but we cannot protect our freedoms by limiting them and we do not believe that we should close our borders in order to shut out some apparent exterior threat. i believe it is vital for the european union to be open, accepting and welcoming to people from the outside, but also to create a place of security, safety and liberty for the people inside. that is the security strategy we should take.
i would like to welcome the members who are present in the house to our early morning session. i also welcome the representatives of the council and the commission.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council (18 and 19 december 2014) (2013/2706 ((rsp)).
president of the council. - mr president, i would like to take this opportunity on behalf of the council to congratulate you on the award of the charlemagne prize. ladies and gentlemen, at the december european council, two main items will be on the agenda: the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the subject. the financial and debt crisis has led the european union to rethink its economic strategy. the european council is at the heart of this strategy, just as investment will be at the heart of the european council. europe needs investment. there is a considerable pool of investment projects which can be exploited, but ambitious projects do not always find funding even when their european potential is enormous. obviously, there are reasons behind this situation. the crisis has affected everyone's behavior: the commission has also taken the view that the community's financial resources should be used to finance the restructuring of the steel industry. but this cannot and must not continue. one of the main objectives of the european council will therefore be to restore confidence. investment must be stimulated and the investment environment in europe improved. the european council will provide guidelines and directives in three main areas. first, by establishing a european fund for strategic investments, which will mobilise new investments between 2015 and 2017. the joint assistance of our two institutions will be necessary. as co-legislators, we will need to act quickly on the future legislative proposal so that new investments can start as early as the first half of 2015. in parallel, the eib will launch its activities with its own funds. secondly, by actively pursuing structural reforms and a growth-friendly fiscal consolidation. these are preconditions for growth. there can be no investment without sound public finances, the right fiscal framework and regulatory certainty. thirdly, by creating a predictable and favourable environment for investment. here again our role as co-legislator will be crucial to improving the regulatory framework, including by pursuing an ambitious programme for improving legislation. the european council of tomorrow will provide political guidance and set priorities, in accordance with its task and responsibility as defined in the treaties. but translating these guidelines and priorities into the real economy is our task and our responsibility. the european parliament and the council will have to work hard and quickly to achieve the results that our citizens expect from us. the presidency of the council - and i can also speak for latvia, which will succeed us - will do everything possible to make this investment framework a success. i have no doubt that you will be equally committed to achieving this objective, as was demonstrated a few weeks ago during the debate on the investment plan for europe proposed by president juncker. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude with a brief reference to ukraine, where the situation remains precarious. developments in the eastern part of the country are a source of continuing and serious concern. i am aware that many members of this parliament share these concerns. the european council will follow developments in this area closely and is ready to take further action if necessary. as you know, the high representative, federica mogherini, is in kiev this week and will certainly share with the council the results of her visit. at the same time, the new ukrainian government is determined to pursue political and economic reforms. we must all encourage this and further facilitate and support the reform process in the country. i thank you for your attention and look forward to hearing your views on this, which i can assure you will be conveyed to president tusk before tomorrow's meeting. i have been informed, among other things, that the president will be attending your january partsession.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i am pleased to be able to report to you on the commission's position for tomorrow's european council and i would be grateful if you would inform your other colleagues who were unable to be here earlier this morning, before ...
we'll do that, no problem. i'll see you later.
president. - no, normally you comment on something you have not listened to, and even if you have listened you comment on what you were going to say anyway. and so we need, as i said yesterday...
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets.
president. - the next item is the report (doc. i'm glad you have these drummers on duty. two elements stand out when we look ahead to the european council meeting. first, europe needs a new approach to investment, and we will have to concentrate on improving the investment climate in europe. we will also have to help our eastern neighbour, ukraine, stabilise the situation in the east, master the challenges of the winter and pursue the path of reform. we will have to focus our efforts to successfully implement these objectives. let me start by making a few remarks on our new approach to investment. on 28 november, the commission presented its 2015 annual growth survey, which is part of a comprehensive jobs, growth and investment package. the commission proposes an integrated approach built around three main pillars, all of which must act together and must be pursued in joint action of eu institutions and member states to be successful and deliver long-lasting benefits: boosting investment; accelerating structural reforms; and promoting fiscal responsibility by pursuing a responsible growth-friendly fiscal consolidation. let me briefly go through these three points one by one. first, we need a coordinated boost to investment: generating the right conditions for more and sustainable investment is the first priority for this commission. weak investment slows down economic recovery in the short term and hurts growth and competitiveness in the longer run. investments in europe are today on average 15% below pre-crisis levels, and we must take action to change this. as i mentioned when presenting our investment plan to you on 26 november, we will set up a european fund for strategic investment together with the european investment bank. the aim is to kick-start a string of public and private investment projects in europe that would not have happened otherwise. the purpose of this new fund will be to invest in those member states hit hardest by the economic downturn. the fund will work in a wide range of areas and choose the financial instruments most suitable for the project in question: from energy interconnectors to broadband; from education infrastructure to innovative smes; from renewable energy to high-tech healthcare. as you will understand, i can certainly not commit to financing of specific projects here and now. all projects have to be screened in light of their economic viability. the list published by the taskforce on investments last week contains over 2 000 examples. obviously, not all of these are new, strategic and economically viable. nevertheless, there are many interesting examples, such as infrastructure for energy connections in finland, poland and the baltic states, reform of school infrastructure in italy, or modernisation of regional hospitals in belgium, just to mention a few examples. to set up the fund, we need one legal act, to be adopted in codecision. the commission will put forward a proposal in january 2015 and we count on your support for swift adoption during the spring. the common aim is that the fund is fully operational by mid next year. in order to start delivering on the ground as quickly as possible, we count on the european investment bank to be able to start certain activities using its funds at the beginning of 2015. the european investment bank has therefore agreed with this basic idea. much has been said about how member states can contribute to the fund. the new fund is self-standing. however, its impact would obviously be much greater if member states contributed to it. several member states have signalled their potential interest in doing so, and i am now awaiting concrete proposals to this end. i do hope that the european council tomorrow will indicate its intention to contribute to these stakes. i need not only words, not only parole parole i need money. for my part, i have indicated the commission's intention to take a favourable position towards such capital contributions in the context of the assessment of public finances under the stability and growth pact. we will come forward with detailed guidance on this in january. let me also assure you that in order to guarantee that projects are chosen on their merits, investment decisions should be based on an independent and expert analysis of the intrinsic merits and economic and social viability of each project. there will be no sectoral or geographical pre-allocations or quotas. however, technical assistance will be stepped up so that project promoters and relevant authorities in all countries will be able to present viable and investible projects. and a transparent pipeline of projects will allow all interested parties to access potential projects in a quick and efficient way. these efforts will be accompanied by concrete proposals to improve the investment environment by removing regulatory barriers in our single market. secondly, we need structural reforms. i would remind you of the virtuous triangle which you described in presenting the investment plan, completed by fiscal consolidation and structural reforms. these three elements of the triangle are opposite, but they go together. we have been quite effective in our collective effort to reduce budget deficits. it is still the case that public debt levels are too high in a number of member states and that they constitute a barrier to the will of private investors to invest in europe. i expect the european council tomorrow to give the commission full support for taking forward the implementation of all the elements of the investment plan. i also expect the european council to agree to double the overall use of innovative financial instruments under the european structural funds for the next programming period. this means a more efficient and more intelligent use of public funds and higher impact on the ground. i am obviously looking forward to the parliament's continued support. the other point on tomorrow's agenda concerns ukraine. the new government in ukraine was elected for its reform agenda. we have seen an ambitious coalition agreement and a bold government action plan. we should also welcome the government's determination to carry out political and economic reforms. the union and its member states must continue to facilitate and support the government's work. the challenges it faces are enormous. first, it must bring peace to donetsk and luhansk. over the past week, we have seen less violence, but the lull must become a ceasefire. weapons should be withdrawn from the line of contact and the peace process should resume. we must continue to do everything in our power to stabilise the situation in eastern ukraine by insisting that all parties implement the minsk agreement. second, ukraine is experiencing a deep recession. this is the result of long-standing macroeconomic and structural problems. in this difficult context, the european union has provided unprecedented financial support. we are about to complete implementation of our two macro-financial assistance programmes. a total of eur 760 million in longterm loans has been disbursed in just the last two months, following on from the eur 600 million already extended in the summer. under these programmes, eur 250 million more can be disbursed early in 2015 if the policy conditions are met. but ukraine wants more help. the assessment of ukraine's financing gap has been completed by the imf. ukraine wants usd 15 billion in addition to what is already planned. the european union can only help within its budget. the relevant eu budget line has been squeezed. there is only a small margin of flexibility for additional financing next year. if we fully use our margin for ukraine, we will have nothing to address other needs that may arise over the next two years. so, we will need to be able to meet ukraine's request for eur 2 billion. as the european union is not able to do that, member states will have to contribute and give us greater flexibility in the budget. third, the government must secure ukraine's energy supply. the winter package gas agreement reached on 30 october is being implemented. ukraine has ordered a first consignment of one billion cubic meters of gas, which was prepaid on 5 december. delivery has begun. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the agreement and will continue to encourage the ukrainian government to order sufficient gas from russia in january and february. these are the main indications i wanted to deliver. we shall see during the european council, and afterwards, what sense of responsibility member states will show.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen! it's the season of advent, just before christmas. you can make wishes. i would like to make my first wish for the forthcoming council that we may put the old eternal debate on austerity and flexibility behind us, the battles we have been waging in the european council for months and years, because jean-claude juncker, the new commission, has put forward good proposals to overcome this debate. in particular, the investment pact. jean-claude juncker, the new commission, has presented a new method we have discussed this intensively: not to create new debt, but to mobilise eur 315 billion of private capital. the epp supports this proposal. europe is doing what we as europeans can do with it. and now the matter is on the council table. we are asking for help, we are calling for help! we need this investment boost for europe, and the national level is invited to contribute. i would like to say that i would like as many countries as possible to make it clear in the coming days that they are making a contribution. i would also say to my country, germany: it would be good if germany put its own contributions on the table to support the investment pact. it would be an important step we take to create momentum. the commission has already made a number of proposals for the development of the european transport network. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and the council of ministers for approval. the second part is then the debate, the invitation to those who are in favour of flexibility, who are in favour of more time, to accept jean-claude juncker's offer to give time until march, to give france, italy more time to make the necessary reforms. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the new president of the commission has offered to accept this extended hand. i must say that we are concerned about france, the second largest country in the european union. if there is now a discussion in france about opening a few sundays to allow longer shopping periods, only in tourist areas, and that certain exceptions are made for notaries, then it is obvious to everyone that this will not solve france's major structural problems. more commitment and more commitment are needed to get europe's second largest economy back on track and ready for globalisation. we are concerned about this, and i want to say it clearly: without a strong france, europe has no future. let me make one more point on this aspect, because in the last few days we have also had discussions in the troika on greece: when i see what the european partners are now demanding of greece, a country which has done a lot, from which much has been asked - with the support of the italian and french finance ministers, by the way - what we are demanding of greece and what we are demanding of france at the moment, i wonder whether we are treating all the member states fairly in this european union. we must ask ourselves this question as europeans. i would therefore ask everyone to take the commission's hand and do something about it. it would be good if i could open my wish list if germany puts money in the pot and if france starts committed structural reforms. that would be good for europe. for us as the epp, the main debate over the next few months will be on structural reforms, because they will decide the future of europe. i would like to say just one thing about our debate this week on the commission's work programme: we as the epp support frans timmermans in limiting, in prioritising, in focusing on the important tasks of our time. the socialist member frans timmermans has our full support. i would also like to say explicitly that when it comes to taxation, which has been a subject of great controversy among the social democrats, i believe that the commission is putting forward good proposals on this subject. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is not misled by the commission's proposals. we believe that he will put some good proposals on the table. i would like the social democrats to have as much confidence in their commissioner moscovici as we do. i can make that very clear. i would like to make two points. the first is ttip. i am glad that the council has agreed to give gas now, perhaps even to set a target date of the end of 2015, after the discussions in australia with the americans. the world is not waiting for us to come to an agreement internally. we need commitment there. we want to uphold the standards that define us as europeans. but we also want to make progress in world trade. we therefore expressly welcome the council's commitment to move forward in this area. finally, the point which probably concerns us most when we look at the current political situation, namely the developments in ukraine and russia. the commission president has said what is necessary on the subject of ukraine. i want to say one more thing about russia: this week the russian central bank decided to raise the key interest rate from 6 to 17%. this will also stifle the domestic investment climate in russia. with these key interest rates, there will normally be no further investment. the ruble stabilized somewhat yesterday, but is still falling. we could say that the sanctions are working. but we are not happy about that. but we hope that the development will make it clear to putin and also to moscow that the path moscow is taking is a wrong path, is a wrong path for his own country. we hope that these developments will make it clear that the outstretched hand of the europeans is still there, that we want the partnership with russia. we hope that russia too will return to respect for international law and that sanctions will become superfluous. (the president agreed to answer questions under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. madam berès, i really believe that i have an overview of the epp governments we have in europe. the structural reforms that have been carried out in recent years, by valdis dombrovskis in latvia, for example, and by his colleagues in ireland, greece and portugal, have imposed heavy burdens on the people. but if you look at the growth rates in europe today, you will see that the countries that had the courage to reform are now the engines of growth in europe. that is why the question is relatively pointless. those who are fighting poverty are those who have the courage to invest in the structural reforms of tomorrow and to lead their countries into the future, and we will stick to that.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr verhofstadt, you are the chairman of the liberal party in this parliament and of the liberal group, at least formally. can you explain to me why you always call for the state and this huge investment programme, where the states should decide, the states that should create jobs, not the companies? the eur 315 billion investment programme, why should the eu and the states decide on it? why should the states guarantee money that the private sector will not invest because the risk is obviously too high for them? why is the state always the solution, and especially for you, the so-called liberal?
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i would also like to address the council first. the question i have to ask myself is what has really changed since the meeting of the eu finance ministers, with a view to the council meeting which is taking place today and tomorrow, what progress has actually been made? is there really a willingness on the part of government representatives to put sustainable investment on a strong financial basis and, above all, to set priorities for investment? i don't see that, but that's kind of the crux of what we're dealing with here. when mr juncker took office and ran for president of the commission, he presented a programme which was primarily intended to promote social, environmental and sustainable economic developments in the member states. i have the impression that mrs von storch did not understand the content of the investment programme, and i am quite right in saying that she did not, but i think it is absurd that, despite her lack of understanding of the problem, she has hit the nail on the head when she says: 'i am not in favour of the public investing in this area, but everything should be made private'. and that's exactly the field that we're moving into here. i still think it is a huge problem that the necessary investments, sustainable investments, are not made through public funds. i am in complete opposition to the afd, or to the direction of this programme. now i ask you all: do you have so much faith in the government leaders that they are really able to not present their old projects, which represent the snow of yesterday, and claim that they are now the big investors? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so i think there is still a lot, a lot to be done here if we are to really make sustainable investments that are geared to social and employment needs. i don't believe that, and you're gonna have to work here to convince us that it's true. we also know that there is a list of cheating in this connection. i would now like to know what effect the repeal of the maternity leave directive will have on investment conditions, for example. what is the impact on investment programmes, for example, of the question whether environmental standards are being reduced, that something we have democratically agreed on here, for example, is simply being taken out of the debate? i am thinking here of the clean air for europe programmes and waste management. what does that have to do with it? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the end, no one can answer my question as to why, for example, private investment has not been put forward long ago for projects such as those which have now been raised. so if i want to change something, i want to change conditions on a national level. you must be aware of that. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i didn't understand she said yes. she obviously hesitated to say yes. perhaps you have not fully understood how this investment programme works, and neither has mr verhofstadt. it requires €21 billion of public money to be used as collateral for private investors to invest at all! obviously these private investors don't want to invest and don't want to make money. they are probably too lazy or simply not interested in making money! how do you explain that we have to provide 21 billion euros of public funds, which we pump up to 66 billion euros of credit, in order for private investors to even want to come and invest? where's the logic in that?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i'm not going to tell you. i would ask you to put that question to mr juncker, not to me.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would like to go back a few minutes and refer to what guy verhofstadt said. i also noticed in the draft resolution that the council is entering the new electoral period with the inauguration of donald tusk with a decidedly rabbit-footed attitude to the challenges. i have the impression that all the lessons we thought we had learned from the euro crisis are being pushed aside. i see no sign of the willingness in the council that we absolutely need to ensure the euro's lasting stability and to really get out of the crisis, namely to take all the measures that would serve to really integrate it into the economic policy of the european union. without a clear common economic policy, it will not be possible to keep the euro stable in the long term. i don't know what you're gonna do with it. i know that the council is of the opinion that it no longer dares to put these ideas to the people. but how do you cope with the loss of confidence in the european public? take luxleaks for example. i see a major gap in this resolution. the consequences of luxleaks, an announcement by the council that it will finally ensure that large companies pay their taxes where they make their profits - that would be a measure that could immediately win back the trust of european citizens. i have the impression, looking at this short council resolution and comparing it with the list of investments, which has grown to the size of several source catalogues, that both the commission and the council believe that free trade, the reduction of social standards, environmental dumping and investment in well-run major projects could create lasting jobs throughout europe. i can't believe this! and i think that mr juncker and mr timmermans are particularly called upon to bring order to this mega-christmas wish list. you are a very good cleaner, mr timmermans. i would like to ask you to ensure that only projects which are really suitable for sustainable economic recovery are approved under this investment programme. and please also ensure that an industry such as the nuclear industry, which has been uncompetitive for 40 years, is not suddenly revived by these subsidies which are supposed to make it possible. i think it is regrettable that the whole investment plan is now so overlapped by projects which seem to be from the past. it was a good idea. i hope it will be a good implementation. on russia: i would prefer that the council document not always talks about ukraine, but about what we actually have, namely a deep crisis between the european union and russia. what do we learn from the news of the last day? we are not the only ones who are dependent on russian energy imports. russia is now a part of the international community in a different way than it was during the cold war, precisely because of its networking. everything europe has decided so far has been right with russia. the council must not be divided by any attempts on the part of moscow. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue pencil' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. if the uk believed in the competitiveness of the nuclear industry, firstly, they would not apply for direct subsidies for these projects here and secondly, they would not impose a fixed price guarantee for electricity, which may one day be produced at hinkley point c, which is guaranteed for 35 years, which is inflation-proof and which is already higher than what wind power costs on-shore in germany or other european countries. competitiveness is different, mr president!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too, like so many other colleagues, would like to make a very important appeal to the council to take a real part in shaping the future of policy. this is very important! but we must not forget that we must not only focus on growth in general, but also on creating quality jobs and tackling sustainability. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. no, that cannot be the answer, but it is about focusing on important innovation and future tasks, making sure that jobs are created in high-value areas such as the digital agenda, such as sustainability, in the energy sector, focusing on infrastructure so that jobs are actually created that our citizens also benefit from.
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council! the liberals want the european union to succeed, we want this commission to succeed. i believe that three elements are crucial: a good work programme. mr juncker, your work programme is very good. they have had the courage to take their clothes off, probably with the active help of frans timmermans, and to include ambitious new projects in their work programme. the second element, alongside a commission work programme, is structural reforms in the member states. we have great concerns here: in france, in italy and also in belgium, where even moderate reforms are being brought to a complete standstill by a general strike. i think the member states need to be much more ambitious in helping you and us as europeans to succeed. the third is the investment programme. your investment programme is criticized by many. i think it is wrong to break the stick and say that this cannot work, that government guarantees can mobilize private investment. it's worked in the past, maybe it will work this time. wish it would. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. werner hoyer, who sat next to you last time, is someone we have great confidence in. i would like to ask you not to make the mistake of letting the member states impose projects on you. the german government has strongly recommended that you put european money into this investment ruin at berlin-brandenburg airport. we want the european union to succeed, we do not want our money to be wasted on projects which are really nonsense and which have failed completely.
i have to say, madam president, we have heard a very remarkable speech by the liberal group chairman, mr verhofstadt. because even mr verhofstadt has now realised that the eurozone is in a serious, deep crisis - that's how he put it. and that is something for a liberal leader whose spectacles usually turn pink whenever europe is mentioned. but then he criticized the council for not administering medicine. that is the wrong criticism, ladies and gentlemen. it is to be criticised that the council has not presented an analysis of why the eurozone is in this crisis, has not answered the question of why north america is growing, why south america is growing, why asia is growing, why australia and oceania are growing, why the countries outside the eurozone are growing in europe, but the eurozone is not growing. i ask you now, ladies and gentlemen of the council: why is the euro zone not growing? why do we have a famous single market, why do we have a famous commission, why do we have a famous common european currency, but the eurozone is not growing? what's the reason? think carefully about this. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i have two questions to ask mr lucke. the first question is: did you miss the fact that structural reforms in key eurozone member states have failed or have failed too little to really stimulate growth? i myself mentioned france and italy in my speech. france is the country that worries us the most. the second question is, when was the last time you were close enough to guy verhofstadt that you could see his glasses and the color of his glasses so clearly that you could see a delicate pink glow there?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. (speaker speaking without a microphone)... and even more intensely, as i could perceive from a distance, i do not want to rule it out. but as far as structural reforms are concerned, i agree with you that they have not been implemented. and the reason they didn't is because you and your friends have overturned the no-assistance clause in europe. because if there were an obligation that every state had to pay for its own debt, then the incentive to carry out internal reforms and to ensure the solvency of a state would certainly be considerably higher than today, where the rules are changed at will.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in the debate on whether mr juncker's investment plan will be an effective start to sustainable growth, our demand as greens is firstly that all the member states of the european union should contribute to this investment plan. i ask the council representative to take seriously this demand, which has been raised here on several occasions by all sides! secondly, as far as the projects to be supported are concerned, there are, in my view, six decisive criteria: firstly, as mr juncker said, there must be no sectoral or geographical quotas. there must be european added value. they must contribute to sustainable growth. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. do you think that - after yesterday's news that russia has decided to provide your party with 40 million euros - it is a sensible investment to take away 40 million euros from the russian people to fight against the european union?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to say a few words about what we expect from the council in relation to ukraine. we expect clear words and decisive action thereafter, and every support for the elected ukrainian government and especially for its president poroshenko. this means, in concrete terms, support for the implementation of the ceasefire agreement, including talks with russia. this means support for the improvement of the humanitarian situation, particularly in eastern ukraine. this means supporting the development of a concept of decentralization, and also supporting the implementation of the extensive reform programme which the government has set itself. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in ukraine is not further worsened. that costs expertise that we can provide. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (the speaker agrees to answer the question of another member in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the european union cannot do this alone. but of course we need financial support if we want to save ukraine, as you say. we should be able to do this together with the member states, together with the world bank and others, to the same extent as the reforms in ukraine have been successful. because otherwise, there's no point in putting money into something that doesn't make a lasting difference. i think this house is pretty closed about that.
president of the council. - mr president, honourable members of parliament, vice-president georgieva, ladies and gentlemen, briefly just to say that the council notes with satisfaction that the european parliament has confirmed the agreement reached at the trilogue of 8 december 2014 and that therefore the 2015 budget and the amending budgets for 2014 are now officially adopted. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank once again the chairman of the committee on budgets, mr arthuis, as well as the three rapporteurs, mr gardiazabal, mr hohlmeier and mr deprez, for the constructive attitude shown during the whole budgetary procedure, which contributed to the positive outcome achieved, and i would like to join in wishing you, mr president, and the honourable members, a very happy christmas.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to thank all the colleagues who have worked with me on this issue for the cross-party approach, because we all feel the importance of this issue. we have taken an important decision today as a parliament. first: we want the two-state solution. we want a democratic, peaceful israel recognized by all palestinians. and we want an independent palestine that is also recognized by israel and europe. and secondly, we have said today that this recognition of palestine is the end of the process. that is to say, there is no immediate or unconditional recognition, but at the end of the procedure, of negotiations, this step is taken. that is a great and reasonable success that we have achieved today. i am very grateful for that.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i would also like to say that my group has been working for weeks and months for this vote, that we have decided to give our consent to this motion in the interests of a strong vote for the recognition of the state of palestine, although we are very sorry that this recognition of the state of palestine has been linked to a precondition. we think that's a problem. we don't think that's a good idea. we believe that the recognition of the state of palestine is the prerequisite for peace negotiations and not the other way around!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to say the same for my group. it was a very serious and very exciting voting process until we agreed to the compromise yesterday. if we want to achieve this as a european parliament, which has nothing but a symbolic say in the whole question, if we want to achieve, as guy verhofstadt has said, that europe returns strongly with mrs mogherini in this important negotiating process, then no return to an old ideological confrontation will help. mr weber, i think we should discuss your speech again among ourselves so that we can keep parliament united behind mrs mogherini in the coming weeks and months. thank you for voting.
in writing. i voted for the extension of trade preferences, as i am opposed to the eu building trade barriers against much poorer countries.
in writing. by agreeing to this proposal, the eu is providing an instrument to initiate future reforms in the republic of moldova. the association agreement, which only recently established a roadmap for the implementation of democratic and rule of law standards, is now intended to weaken the leverage it contains. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is an expression of naivety that trade facilitation is now being unilaterally and without any consideration for the republic of moldova in the belief that democracy and the rule of law are being adopted. i am convinced that in this deeply corrupt state, where human trafficking is the order of the day, only political and economic pressure can be used to bring about action against it, and i cannot support the motion for a resolution, because it deprives us of that very means of pressure.
in writing. this proposal combines two desirable objectives: on the one hand, free trade based on equality and state sovereignty is promoted. on the other hand, the eu is committed to the enforcement of international human rights, with particular emphasis on labour rights. it is to be welcomed that in this case workers' rights are seen as a condition for free trade. however, one inevitably asks how the same eu can promote workers' rights in the case of ecuador, where they are presented as a trade restriction in the case of ttip.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i also wanted to use the next explanations of vote to praise our committee on budgets again and to say: of course, with the corrections to the 2014 budget we have created the conditions for us to be able to adopt a budget for 2015 as well. the procedure as such is on the one hand necessary, on the other hand it is always annoying, because of course the european union itself is solidly financed. we are financed mainly by membership dues, a small share of vat and fines. corrections are necessary. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. with this proposal, the commission wants to tell us that the youth employment programme it has launched is an 'unforeseen expenditure'. it is an absolute misuse of the word 'unforeseen' which has been put to the vote. perhaps we could look past that if this programme were to prove successful. but that is not the case! the commission is blindly following those voices in europe who propagate that employment can be increased by ever more public spending. in fact, it is clear that the unemployment rate, and especially youth unemployment, is particularly high where the state is able to control the economy at will. in addition, there is still a lack of understanding that the euro has taken away the competitiveness of the economically stronger central and northern europe in the manner of one size fits all for the distressed states. i am therefore opposed to this pointless waste of taxpayers' money and i must reject this proposal from the commission.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i can connect to it seamlessly. i simply want to ask for this, and we have created the conditions with the 2014 budget and then with the 2015 budget for all of us - by which i mean the commission, parliament and in particular the member states - to focus on these unpaid bills, the backlog that has then accumulated and that does not accumulate because the european parliament is constantly spending money uncontrollably. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so i would simply ask that we reduce this backlog, that we agree on a procedure whereby the contributions that have been agreed are finally paid on time. this includes ensuring that contributions are paid in due time and in an orderly manner.
in writing. although there are non-problematic items in the improvements to the eu budget, the planned expenditure is clearly too high. while only 121 billion is available, expenditure of 145 billion euros is planned. the commission cannot explain what fiscal miracles it is trying to achieve to offset this deficit, nor can the signal from this budget be supported. while more discipline is needed in the current crisis, the commission is setting a bad example for the eu member states by presenting such an unbalanced budget. it is in line with the picture that the juncker commission has provided so far. it is not a question of a single currency, but of a single currency. the role of the state is to be increasingly inflated, and measures to stimulate the economy exist only on paper. i do not support this draft budget which repeats and deepens all the errors which caused the crisis.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to point out once again that we have received the revised budgetary statement for 2014, that we have adopted a budget for 2015. we have not fallen into the feared liquidity bottlenecks thanks to the consistency and far-sighted negotiating style of our parliament, which has found a way to make the european union as a whole solvent by means of restructuring and compromise. it would have been a huge public embarrassment, too. on the one hand we are talking about constantly re-launched investment programmes, and on the other hand we have a liquidity shortfall, so we would not have been able to pay the bills that are due quite easily. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the council of ministers. we have had a slight fall in revenue due to the reduced vat revenue. on the other hand, we have been able to collect more penalties. this balance would be a plus. so the world would be beautiful. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief overview of the situation in the member states.
in writing. because i believe that genuine solidarity between european countries is a great achievement, i agree to the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund. if the eu were to show the same sense of solidarity in all areas as it does in disaster relief, it would not have to complain about a lack of acceptance among its citizens. instead, taxpayers' money is invested in opaque projects and supposedly rescued from bankruptcy. solidarity means helping those in need, not freeing their creditors from any risk of loss.
in writing. as the permanent rapporteur for serbia, i would like to emphasise the devastating impact of the floods in mid-may on that country. more than 1.6 million people were affected by the floods, with damage totalling over one billion euros. the european union has provided rapid and unbureaucratic assistance in the largest crisis management operation in the union's history. in total, the european union will have provided serbia with over eur 172 million by the end of 2014 as a result of the floods. a few weeks ago i was in belgrade and i heard: the people there are aware that it was the european union in particular that helped them in these difficult times. solidarity with the member states is as important as solidarity with the applicant countries. i ask the commission to continue this path of solidarity as it has done so far.
in writing. i believe that more preventive measures are needed. the first thing to be done here is, of course, to call on the states concerned. at the same time, it is an opportunity for the eu to refocus on one of its most important tasks. as serbia, croatia and bulgaria are sometimes affected by the same natural events, it must support and promote crossborder cooperation for the benefit of all eu citizens.
in writing. the argument presented is an insult to reason. this is not about helping a european partner country to invest in infrastructure and the economy. the cypriot government's budget is being repaired with funds from european aid programmes, under a disguise that is easy to see. after the additional financial resources provided last year, the miraculous recalculation underlying this draft resolution has again resulted in a substantial increase in demand. i refuse to agree to this because i am convinced that the third, equally appalling amendment will be submitted to the european parliament as early as next year. instead of transferring more and more taxpayers' money, the realization should finally prevail that cyprus will be permanently dependent on this euro. it is absolutely unsolidarist to deny economic recovery to a european partner!
in writing. i think my colleague's resolution is correct. the reduction in cod catches is leading to the capture of immature fish. it has not been demonstrated that this type of fishing does not lead to depletion of stocks and that it is compatible with sustainable management.
in writing. - the european parliament rejects unconditional recognition of palestine the epp group welcomes the fact that the european parliament supported a resolution today on the recognition of palestinian statehood and the two-state solution, but ‘hand in hand’ with the development of the peace talks. ‘with this vote, the european parliament clearly rejected an unconditional recognition separated from the peace negotiations’, pointed out the epp group co-negotiator of the resolution and chairman of foreign affairs, elmar brok mep. ‘the epp group believes, as does the majority of the european parliament, that early negotiations are necessary to make a secure israel and a viable and democratic palestinian state possible on the basis of the 1967 borders and under international law. both sides must refrain from any actions that could jeopardise that goal. the european parliament has rightly demanded that all palestinian factions, including hamas, recognise the existence of the state of israel in accordance with the 1993 declaration of the palestinian liberation organisation (plo). the epp group supports the position of the european parliament against israeli settlement policy’, brok explained. the epp group also welcomes the fact that the resolution rejects any form of violence and terrorism from all sides and warns against a potential religious dimension in the conflict. for epp group meps, the only sustainable solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict will be the one achieved by peaceful and non-violent means. ‘we are gravely concerned at the growing tension and increasing violence in the region, and we urge all parties to refrain from any action that would worsen the situation. the resolution voted today does not ask for an unconditional recognition of palestine. on the contrary, the text insists upon the need to continue and advance the peace talks. ultimately, the only true recognition of palestine as state can be brought about by negotiations between the parties, in the framework of a comprehensive peace process that addresses all outstanding issues’, explained the epp group co-negotiator of the resolution and epp group spokesperson on foreign affairs, cristian preda mep.
in writing. i voted against the recognition of palestine. i was not at all concerned with whether palestine should be recognized or not. of course, there are good reasons for this, just as there are good reasons against it. the recognition of israel's right to exist by palestine as a precondition is just as right as the recognition of palestine as a state. i voted against this proposal because neither the eu nor the european parliament has the right to recognise countries, just as these european institutions have no right to refuse such recognition. only countries have that right. if sweden wants to be recognized, that is sweden's business. if germany does not do this, it is a german matter. the vote by the european parliament is an unacceptable presumption, as are many other presumptions. the eu is not a state. i am firmly against the 'united states of europe' being formed through the back door. that's why i'm saying no.
in writing. i voted against the resolution, although i agree with the central point 1 (recognition in principle of the state of palestine, to be made as progress is made in the peace negotiations). however, a peaceful solution should not be based on the 1967 borders. these borders are the random armistice lines of 1948; the european union has a long history of supporting the palestinian cause, and the palestinian people have a long history of supporting the cause of peace. whether the settlement activity on territory that no state has ever claimed for itself was in violation of international law, i cannot judge, but it seems to me obvious that it was politically unwise. the european union is not a party to the peace process, but it is a party to the peace process. it also seems to me problematic to insist on a two-state solution with jerusalem as the capital of both states. this is countered by security concerns, which relate to the well-being of the jewish population of west jerusalem on the one hand, and the vulnerability of the government institutions on both sides. even after a peace settlement, adequate security would probably be achieved only by completely dividing the city with walls and barbed wire. as a former berliner, i can't get much out of it. the eu should not dictate the final peace settlement but leave it to the parties to the conflict to negotiate.
in writing. we must thank the authors of this petition: the fact that almost all the groups except ours and the efdd have agreed to recognise palestine as soon as possible and almost unconditionally shows that they are not concerned about the security of israel. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for us, as an alternative to germany, the existence of israel is not up for discussion. that is why we refuse to negotiate with hamas and fatah as representatives of a palestinian state as long as they propagate the destruction of israel. before we recognize palestine, palestine must recognize israel!
in writing. a certain amount of hubris and detachment from the citizen is required to understand the commission's statement presented here. the commission is aware of this, but it is not concerned about it, while the european steel industry is being deprived of breath, thousands of jobs are being laid off, sites and jobs are being moved out of europe. the commission is pleased to note that the steel industry is no longer an energy-intensive industry within the territory of the eu member states. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is hoping that the council will take a decision on the matter. a steel plant in china, india or brazil has a much deeper ecological footprint than a european one! the commission's policy is destructive here: for workers, for social systems, for the environment and for europe's international competitiveness.
in writing. - i fully support the conclusion of the resolution to task the libe committee with conducting an assessment of the current policies of asylum and migration, including additional resources to perform this task. however, i abstained in the final vote because the text also calls for swift processing. in collaboration with third countries of transit and origin, and of return for those who do not qualify for asylum and protection in the eu. this effectively means that decisions on asylum claims are prejudiced, thereby seriously undermining the whole asylum system. processing of any claim for asylum should never be done in collaboration with the country of origin.
in writing. this resolution deals with a tragedy that must be ended. there is no doubt that people in boats that are unseaworthy need to be rescued. there is no doubt that the eu and the mediterranean coaches must have the resources to ensure this. but more importantly, and this is a key point that has not been sufficiently appreciated in the resolution, there will be no incentive to seek admission to the eu by sea (and thus illegally). as long as there is this hope, people will continue to risk their lives, and we cannot allow that to happen. it is therefore necessary to ensure that people apprehended at sea who hope to enter the eu illegally are immediately returned to a safe country outside the eu, from where they can legally apply to enter the eu. it is the only way to ensure that the flow of refugees by sea is stopped and that further tragic deaths are prevented. i have abstained on this resolution because this important point was alluded to in the resolution. but it's important to be open about the uncomfortable truths.
in writing. not only that, but the events off lampedusa in particular have shown the european public that illegal migration leads to human tragedies. the main culprits are the inhuman trafficking gangs, who take the last of the people's money and take them across the mediterranean in the most dangerous of circumstances. but there is also a responsibility on the part of those groups who, by their speeches, give the impression that europe is capable of providing adequate care for thousands of economic refugees. it is bad enough that people want to leave their country because of economic difficulties. it should be noted, however, that this is not and cannot be a ground for asylum. the current wars in the arab world - especially in syria - mean that the eu must take in many people who truly deserve asylum. as long as governments open up emergency shelters to people without asylum grounds, war refugees and persecuted people will continue to be unable to find the necessary protection in europe that they need.
the next item is the debate on statements by the council and the commission on the report of the united states senate on torture by the cia (2014/2997 ((rsp)).
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the united states is an important partner for the european union in the fight against terrorism. however, there were also some serious concerns and differences regarding certain aspects of us counter-terrorism policies. the european union has been engaged in dialogue with the united states on these issues for several years. today we're discussing a senate report on a previous u.s. program that was formally terminated almost six years ago. we share the view expressed by president obama that these techniques are contrary to our values and not only useful in the fight against terrorism. it is important to ensure that this does not happen again. we therefore welcome the publication of the report and the subsequent public debate. this shows both transparency and openness in learning from past mistakes. the council has repeatedly stated that the fight against terrorism must be conducted in full compliance with international law, including human rights law, international humanitarian law, and international refugee law. respect for international law is an essential element of the european union's counter-terrorism strategy. when the existence of secret cia detention centres was revealed in 2006, the council underlined that the european union remained strongly committed to the absolute prohibition of torture and cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the senate report shows that the legal justification has helped to authorize the various techniques mentioned in it. since 2006, the european union has engaged in a regular dialogue with us legal advisers on the international legal aspects of the fight against terrorism. this dialogue has enabled us to raise a number of issues and concerns with the united states and has given us the opportunity to insist on the need to respect international law and human rights. it's important to note that president obama formally ended the cia program within days of taking office. president obama had then issued a decree banning all forms of torture and ill-treatment, as well as so-called "enhanced interrogation techniques" and secret detention. he had called for the cia to no longer run the detention centers and forbidden the use of interrogation techniques. subsequently, in a joint question issued in june 2009, the european union and the united states welcomed (quoted verbatim) 'the thorough review of the us policies on detention, transfer, trial and interrogation in the fight against terrorism and increased transparency on past practices in relation to these policies as well as the elimination of secret detention facilities'. we can only confront terrorism if we are true to our core values. the violation of human rights and the rule of law can themselves give rise to resentment and even lead people to resort to terrorism, even though such acts can never be justified or excused in any way. these policies, although intended to combat terrorism, can in fact create conditions conducive to its spread. over the years, the european union has not only engaged in dialogue with states on these issues but has also taken specific actions to promote changes in us policy: for example, in 2009, the european union established a framework that facilitated the reception by european union member states of former guantanamo detainees in support of president obama's goal of closing guantanamo within a year. this support was provided in the context of an in-depth review of the us counter-terrorism policies, consistent with the rule of law and international law, pending a resolution of the underlying political issues. with the exception of specific armed conflicts such as afghanistan, syria or iraq, the european union has adopted a criminal justice approach to the fight against terrorism. terrorists should be properly investigated, prosecuted and convicted in accordance with the common rules of criminal law. the criminal and ordinary courts have a long experience in dealing with cases related to terrorism. law enforcement investigations are crucial to obtaining information on terrorist networks and thwarting their plans. fair trials before ordinary criminal courts have put hundreds of terrorists behind bars. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the treaties of the european union stipulate that national security remains the exclusive responsibility of each member state. this means that the work of the intelligence agencies of the member states falls outside the sphere of competence of the european union and its institutions. it follows that investigations into the alleged involvement of member states in the cia programme are the responsibility of the member states and not of the european union. in conclusion, the member states and the european union are bound by the european convention on human rights and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the european court of human rights in strasbourg monitors the measures taken to combat terrorism. in addition, since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the european court of justice has been empowered to review eu legislation on internal security. this provides a solid regulatory framework which provides an adequate framework within which we can and must combat the scourge of terrorism.
member of the commission. - mr president, the commission, which i represent here today on this matter, is, like you, appalled by the findings of the united states senate select committee on the intelligence study of the cia’s detention and interrogation programme, part of which was released on 9 december. as you know, most of the inquiry remains classified. this report raises important questions as regards serious violations of fundamental rights by the us authorities and by other persons in the service of the cia between late 2001 and january 2009. as president obama rightly said this week, the actions taken under the cia programme were contrary to us values, recognising that one of the most effective tools to fight terrorism is to stay true to the values and ideals the united states stands for. this is what led him in 2009 to unequivocally ban torture – an act which we applauded. i recall this because this is the real point about torture: it is just wrong. not only is it wrong, it is a crime – it is a criminal act – and it should never be used. while shocking, the senate committee findings are not a complete surprise. the existence of secret detention facilities, rendition flights and the allegations of torture and ill-treatment of prisoners under cia custody in the context of the fight against terrorism by the united states have been a concern since they became public some 10 years ago. since then, several united nations human rights bodies and special rapporteurs – as well as the council of europe and the european court of human rights – have been unequivocal in condemning the practices now documented in the senate committee study. this house has been engaged in this issue since the start, with the decision to set up a committee of inquiry leading to two own-initiative reports in 2007 and in 2012 condemning the practices in question and voicing the need to promote and protect fundamental rights. as the european union, we have raised these issues with the united states on several occasions, including in letters by the presidency of the council and in our regular dialogues on counter-terrorism and human rights. the senate committee study is a positive step in confronting publicly and critically the way in which the cia’s responsibilities were discharged in relation to the allegations of torture and ill-treatment against suspects in united states custody abroad. the commission believes that full clarity should be brought to bear on those practices, in accordance with international standards, including as regards individual responsibilities for those facts. the eu condemns all forms of torture and ill-treatment under any circumstances and works towards the prevention and eradication of all forms of torture and ill-treatment within the european union and worldwide as a priority of its human rights policy. as the commission has repeatedly underlined, efforts to combat terrorism should be conducted in a manner that conforms to the rule of law, respects our common values and complies with our respective obligations under international law – in particular, international human rights law, refugee law and humanitarian law. the commission has consistently stressed, since the beginning, that all concerned member states should conduct in-depth, independent and impartial investigations to establish the facts with regard to cia activities. they should have established responsibilities and enabled victims to obtain compensation for damages. this was recalled in a joint letter sent to all member states in 2013 by then vice-president reding and commissioner malmström. we note that the judicial authorities of several member states have in the past undertaken investigations and the prosecution of persons, including cia agents involved in the abduction, rendition, illegal detention, torture and ill-treatment of suspects under the cia detention and interrogation programme. on the same day that the senate committee study was released, we learned in the press that the us military’s bagram detention centre in afghanistan had been closed. two of the prisoners who have been turned over to the afghan authorities had been in us custody since 2002, including several years under cia detention without trial. however, 136 detainees still remain in the guantánamo detention facility, including detainees who will not be brought to trial and have not been cleared for release. the european union will keep monitoring the situation and keep raising the human rights-related aspects of the fight against terrorism with the united states.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for his excellent report. the report presented by the united states senate committee is a shocking report. if president obama says that the report shows a shocking pattern of cia activity and that america's image in the world has been significantly damaged, then i can only agree with him 100 percent. it is a question of the heart, which is: can we protect our ideals by trampling on and destroying those very ideals? the answer to this question from the epp's point of view and from my own point of view is no, we cannot trample on these ideals. the fundamental rights and dignity of a human being are inviolable. of course, a person's dignity includes his safety. but to use any method to keep people safe, including torture and the most brutal interrogation, is not in the catalogue of what is acceptable. waterboarding: john mccain has described this in public from his very credible, very accusatory personal point of view, by saying that the americans have once sentenced criminals to long prison terms for waterboarding. what they themselves have blamed on others cannot be accepted by them even if it is their own cia. i think it is a strength of american parliamentarism that this report has even been made public. we will not see this in totalitarian states. i respect that, i have to say. i am not saying that the commission should be unable to take action on the matter, but i am saying that it should be able to take action on the matter. i hope and wish that the american people are strong enough to emerge from this stronger in democracy and to draw the necessary consequences.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not 6 700 pages of torture, beatings, days of sleep deprivation, stretching of body parts, sexualised violence, mock executions, a prisoner prevented from sleeping for 138.5 hours in a row, waterboarding, forced rectal feeding - are these not the core facts of the worst dictatorships that we rightly criticize? unlike these dictatorships, the us has published this report and that's a good thing. i appreciate that, too. but, you know, they're also signatories to the un torture convention. if a u.s. government actually supports a torture program and agrees that systematic torture is allowed, then it demonstrates a deep ethical and moral crisis in the united states as a whole that allows such a thing. torture doesn't work anywhere. torture prevents the enlightenment that it purports to be. torture is contempt for humanity and moral decay. that is why regret and criticism are not enough. torture must be prohibited by law everywhere. we are demanding legal clarification and i am glad that the chairman of the left group in the german bundestag, gregor gysi, has brought criminal charges against george bush. we also demand legal consequences for the cia's torture excesses in poland and lithuania. we demand clarification of the alleged involvement of european intelligence services, such as the british, in these crimes. it's time to close guantanamo. that's enough. the secret prisons must be dissolved and the judicial powers of the secret services withdrawn.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the council's words may have given the impression that the world is in order here. the cia torture is an abhorrent crime, of which eu countries are complicit. the cia has systematically tortured people all over the world, including in the eu, in violation of international law. the cia has always claimed that this is how they obtain valuable information to prevent terrorist attacks. it was a lie. but regardless, torture is not a means to combat crime, it is a crime. torture betrays the very core of our value system. human dignity is at the heart of our actions. that is the key difference between us and the fundamentalist extremists. we must speak a different language from that of violence in preventing and investigating terrorist crimes, otherwise we will be providing extremists with arguments to foment rejection and hatred against our democracies. this is not just a question of morality, but of international law. torture is never allowed. torture must always be prosecuted by every state. it is a disgrace for europe that the eu states turned a blind eye to the illegal transport of prisoners or the provision of prisons. the european parliament has already called for a comprehensive clarification in 2007 but to date no result has been achieved. who was behind the kidnapping, transfer, arrest and torture of people, including eu citizens, without charge, and who knew about it? only last week, high-ranking representatives of poland and romania confirmed the existence of secret torture camps. will there be consequences? national governments alone are clearly not in a position to do this - they are too much involved in crime. that is why we need effective eu mechanisms to prevent our member states from such blatant violations of fundamental european values. the cia torture shows what happens when the rule of law is overridden by a terrorist regime. no one is being protected, but our democracies as a whole are being threatened. it is our duty as europeans to oppose it with determination, and i can only hope that the commission will actually stand by us in this.
can i remind colleagues that we have a topic on the agenda and that colleagues who are speaking should speak on the topic on the agenda.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner! i think it's a great achievement by the united states senate, particularly senator feinstein, to publish a report like this. it shows that the united states of america, unlike russia and china, when they've made a mess, they're always able to put things right in a self-cleaning process. that's the big difference between a democracy and a dictatorship. the european parliament has a duty to be involved in the process of democratization. however, the facts are correct: this procedure is not legally sound, it is not justified by any reason and it is completely unlawful. it is inhuman and must be criticized. it is quite clear that this is the case, and that is why, since i myself have visited guantanamo once and have always been clear on this point, i am not going to vote for it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but please do not behave in a hypocritical manner as if the united states of america were the greatest criminal on earth. we must also see that this was a consequence, a consequence that cannot be used as an alibi, but a consequence of terrorist acts that have been committed against american citizens and that are hardly mentioned by anyone here. because there is a history, and it has to be expressed. i would like to say again that the balance between freedom and security cannot be so misguided as to destroy fundamental human rights. that's the criticism. the americans are restoring the balance. and i think it's a crucial point to be critical of this, but to understand this context. so i want to once again congratulate senator feinstein and her people for having the courage, with all the consequences and the criticism that comes with doing this, and that makes the difference between the united states of america and many dictatorships. mrs. ernst, you should talk to your stasi people in your party, who have also taken people to prison and tortured them there. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i have expressed that we must see the fight against terrorism, but that the violation of human rights cannot be justified from the fight against terrorism. that's why this american behavior is wrong. that's being criticized. but we still need to see the connection. (the speaker agrees to answer three questions under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. - i'm not going to tell you. i agree with you on some things. i'm not a saint at all. but i wanted to ask you this question: do you not think that this also requires legal action, that it also requires legal conclusions to be drawn and that it actually requires bringing to justice and prosecuting people who are responsible for these human rights violations?
answer to questions on the 'blue card' procedure. yes, this was a mistake in the past. yes, something must be done about it. yes, but it must also be dealt with by legal means if this is proved in the individual case. but that doesn't change the argument i made earlier. i have already called for legal action to be taken against this and for guantánamo to be dissolved, as i did eight or ten years ago, and i do not need to confirm this again. i've always thought so. but we also have to see, and that's the double whammy we have: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. we must first of all return to our own doorstep on this matter. there were only a few countries that were willing to take some. therefore, a commandment of hypocrisy cannot be dealt with accordingly. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. i also believe that there should be no statute of limitations for such proceedings, but there should also be no political statute of limitations if people who tortured their own compatriots in prison are now politically responsible in germany.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as a long-time member of amnesty international, i am as appalled and outraged as all of us here at what has happened in the united states. but i would also like to take this opportunity to remind you that it was the americans themselves who made this public - it was the senate, by the way. and there, too, as here, there is a critical discussion of what previous american governments have done. what surprises me is that we are once again targeting the americans. i would like to have a debate on what the russian intelligence is doing. i missed that. as a co-rapporteur of the human rights report last year, i also noticed that in these reports we always deal with things that are, oddly enough, mostly or very often also against americans. it would be nice if we were to make the same intensive efforts to combat human rights violations in other countries.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. of the 6,200 pages of the u.s. torture report, 525 pages have now been made public, and they state: the u.s. has brutally tortured, one death has been documented. and the report states that the torture was also pointless. but no matter how useless, torture is always forbidden. the end does not justify the means. article 5 of the united nations universal declaration of human rights states that no one may be subjected to torture. i find: first, torture belongs to the middle ages or to the states of lawlessness, but not to the states of law of the 21st century. secondly, those who torture should be punished. the perpetrators must be brought before national courts or the international criminal court. thirdly, it is time that the united states recognized the international criminal court and stopped promoting and protecting criminals.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. kidnappings, disappearances, days of sleep deprivation, confinement in small boxes, sexual abuse, waterboarding -- the list of cia torture is long, and it's just scary. i can only agree with the courageous chair of the senate intelligence committee, dianne feinstein. but of the more than 6,000 pages of classified u.s. senate documents, only 500 have been made public, and large portions of them have been blacked out. that means the full truth about what happened under the guise of counterterrorism is still in the dark. as a former member of the ad hoc committee which, as early as 2006, investigated the cia's practices and the involvement of european states in the massive violation of human rights and called for a full investigation, i would like to stress once again today that no purpose justifies the appalling means used by the cia. any use of torture is a flagrant violation of our values. but to point the finger at the united states is not enough. whether the motivation was misguided loyalty to the alliance or even money flowing, whoever was responsible in europe for the cia's illegal practices must be held accountable. we owe it to the victims and our own credibility. former polish president kwaśniewski and former romanian intelligence chief talpeș have only now, after the publication of the us senate report, been forced to admit that us secret prisons exist in their countries. the british government, according to the german press, had insisted that evidence of british involvement in the cia torture programme be covered up before the senate report was published. hide, conceal, cover up and deny the cover-up strategy of governments must finally end. all eu countries have ratified the european convention on human rights, which states in article 3: 'no one shall be subjected to torture or to inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.' there must be no impunity or silence in the european union on the question of torture.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would like to make one point in advance: i think we should all make it clear in this debate - this is also an appeal to the davutoğlu government and to president erdoğan - that turkey and the european union share major challenges along turkey's borders. the war in syria, but also isis, are challenges that we must continue to face together, as well as the huge humanitarian catastrophe, the refugee flows in this region. we must not forget that in this debate we are facing common challenges. it is, however, right to be critical, very critical, of what happened last weekend. the arrests and indictments of journalists and police, and the raids on newsrooms, must be politically attributed to things that have happened before and are likely to continue to happen unless we intervene more vehemently. the government has long considered all opposition activities - not just the gülen movement and its media - as preparations for a conspiracy against the state or a coup against president erdoğan and his majority government. i think it's completely unhealthy that in turkey, the gezi protests, the demonstrations against isis, the demonstrations for the victims of kobane, the mourning ceremonies, that all of this is now considered part of a big conspiracy. if we are now criticizing what happened last weekend, then we really have to look at this as a whole as a problem that occurs between the majority that the government represents and the minorities. there is no longer any respect for minority rights, criticism is understood as a call for a coup. we cannot tolerate this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the restrictions on freedom of expression and the press in turkey are not new, they have been for years. critics are silenced, arrested, tried under the anti-terrorism act, and it takes one cartoon to be silenced accordingly. social media has been shut down and now the latest act: the raid and arrests last sunday. but that is not, of course, in keeping with our basic values in the eu. freedom of expression and of the press are indispensable in a democracy, and we obviously cannot say this enough to turkey. a state which arbitrarily restricts these fundamental rights and freedoms is undemocratic and can never become a member of the european union. however, turkey does not meet the other political copenhagen criteria for accession in any respect. this is also reflected in the fact that the investigation of corruption allegations against the political elite, against members of the government, was blocked a year ago. files were seized, investigating officers in the police and judiciary were transferred or dismissed. to this day, there is no investigation because president erdoğan does not want it. after all, his son is a suspect. so there is no rule of law in turkey either, only the arrogance of president erdoğan. this country is going through a dramatic regression, and i don't think we can allow that to happen. we must protest against this. we must, as the european union, finally abandon our naivete towards the country, and finally think about what sanctions we can impose. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. such continued violations of fundamental rights must not be tolerated.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. what is happening in turkey at the moment is nothing but a poorly concealed attack on freedom of the press and of expression. journalists are being charged and deported on absurd charges. even people who took to the streets during the gezi protests are now being charged with alleged attempted coups, while police forces who used violence are not being prosecuted. president erdoğan is obviously trying to silence and prevent any criticism of him. but that's the completely wrong way to go about an emerging democracy. turkey can only benefit from a vibrant civil society and a critical press. i hope erdogan finally sees that. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. but the eu and the member states in particular have also made some mistakes. because if member states always block the accession process, if they close chapters, if they say that turkey cannot join anyway, no matter what it does, no matter what standards it meets, then you are not helping civil society, you are not helping the critical voices, but you are preventing us from having, for example, a lever in our hands now to really have serious talks with turkey. we're taking the tools out of our own hands. we'll have to work on that. in any case, the human rights and justice should be given priority in an accession process, much more than any rules from the internal market. we must do the same for the future.
i have to say, madam president, the events in turkey are more than disturbing. the regime around president erdoğan is cracking down on the media and putting unpopular journalists to death. as an east german, i have developed a good sense of the dangers of being tied down, tied up and unfree, and i can tell when state arbitrariness is taking hold. the turkish government's behaviour is totally unacceptable and in breach of all the fundamental rights of the european union. can such a country ever become a member of the european union if it has no respect for the rule of law and fundamental rights? i mean, no. democracy doesn't mean that every few years, there are elections and then in between, a government can do whatever it wants. democracy means that the state and society must respect human rights and values such as freedom of expression and pluralism. the arrest of the journalists has once again shown the erdoğan government its true face. this government is moving further and further away from europe and from any basic democratic concept. it started with the beating of peaceful protesters in gezi park and continues with this arrest action by erdoğan's political proxies. erdoğan seems to believe that the eu and the international community have let him get away with everything. mrs mogherini and the commission must now send a strong signal. the breakdown of the accession negotiations must not be a taboo subject as a last resort.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. a brief history: i think the high point in eu-turkey relations was in september 2005, when this house opened accession negotiations. exactly one year ago today, the biggest corruption raid in turkey's history took place, with the resignation of four ministers. the provisional low point in eu-turkey relations was last sunday, when many journalists were arrested on suspicion and without any evidence. i would therefore like to remind you once again that turkey has always been strong only when it has been oriented towards the eu. for example, it has delivered an average economic output of 6% per year between 2005 and 2008. last year it was just over 3%, and this is not necessarily due to the global economic crisis, to say the least. i therefore explicitly appeal to the acp government to stop its personal campaign of revenge against dissent and to finally align its laws with the eu.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we social democrats welcome the free trade agreement and, of course, the association agreement and look forward to close cooperation with georgia. we also make it clear that russia's attempts to create unrest and insecurity through the treaties with the occupied territories will not deter us. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the georgian government for its very prudent and wise approach to this conflict. economic cooperation will benefit both sides. political cooperation will help to reform and stabilise the country. the people of georgia will find that an independent judiciary, the rule of law, the fight against corruption, a transparent administration and much more will benefit them. it is good that we have a cooperation committee in the future, following the example of ukraine and moldova, and now also georgia. this is important to promote dialogue and to bring us closer together. however, we should also think again about what this means for the committee as it has been up to now. because then you have the eu on one side and armenia and azerbaijan on the other side. that's going to be a pretty tough task for us.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. with unemployment above 35% and an average wage of eur 350, more than a third of the population has left the country in the meantime. the association agreement has given a clear answer to the hopes of the georgian people. but no one has yet explained how these hopes are to be fulfilled. i therefore think that the commission must explain in a short time how it intends to meet the expectations of independent, socially just and economic development and good jobs as the basis for a dignified life in a democratic state. and we in this house have to admit color, too. i would like to add one more thing: georgia has chosen the path of association. but we should immediately stop undermining georgia's flexible policy in the interests of a compromise with russia as a partner. if we force georgia into the policy of sanctions, we will soon have to discuss compensation for the losses incurred by means of eu funds. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the economic agreement and the free trade agreement of course have certain conditions. at the same time, we must also consider how economic cooperation with georgia will enable georgia itself to open up a new perspective in diversifying its economy and in cooperating with other trading partners.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the integration of other european states into the eu internal market is generally positive, especially if in return reforms in the partner country and commitments to freedom, democracy, the rule of law, human rights, etc. are achieved, or strategically interesting access to oil and natural gas supply chains on the black sea. but i ask why in the most ambitious free trade agreement between the european union and georgia there are phrases such as 'concerning georgia's integration into nato', which not only mention a country which is not a party to that agreement, namely russia, but also discuss its role in the south caucasus and its attitude to international law, which in a free trade agreement between the european union and georgia address a country which is not a party to that agreement on its role vis-à-vis georgia? why does the european union express its surprise in this agreement that russia sees this agreement as a threat to its economic and political interests, when a few points earlier it also called for georgia's participation in crisis management operations within the framework of european defence policy and wanted to invite georgia to exercise and training activities?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not the fight against the causes of flight is undeniably important. the khartoum process, however, raises a number of unanswered questions. the fight against criminal traffickers and human traffickers seems to be given a higher priority than the immediate protection of people fleeing war and political persecution. the final priority of the conclusion is support for the establishment of reception centres. some call them detention centres, the german minister of the interior even speaks of welcome centres. but who should feel welcome where and for how long? and what's to happen there? the commission is also proposing to grant access to asylum procedures. but what does "access" mean here? and who is to determine eligibility for asylum on the basis of what criteria? the unhcr, the member states, the countries of transit concerned themselves? or should it even be used for the whole asylum procedure? by what standards? and does this not mean that europe will be isolated as a result? i know! we need safe and legal ways to get to europe. but the individual right to asylum must not be restricted, and we europeans must not simply buy our way out of it. the projects of this process must therefore be examined very critically by us. and even if there are approaches that we all welcome, would all the countries really participate? in conclusion, what exactly is the commission's role in the khartoum process? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. and how is the european parliament to be informed and involved? many open questions i hope the commission and the council can provide at least some answers today.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. it is true that in venezuela the opposition is acting violently and illegally. but is it also right to respond to an illegal action with terror and torture? i'd like an answer to that.
a writer. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. mauritania officially abolished slavery in 1981 and has been a criminal offence since 2007. but in practice, slavery is still practiced. ngos like the ira mauritania and other organizations like sos esclaves bring cases of slavery to the public. the mauritanian government would therefore be well advised to take the work of these organizations seriously, even to view them as supporting the fight to abolish slavery. but the situation is just the opposite. today, with this resolution, we call on the government to end its pressure, its actions against the anti-slavery activists. we call in particular for the release of the recently re-arrested anti-slavery activists, most notably mr biram dah abeid, and condemn their arrest. in mauritania, if you want to fight slavery, you have to fight the poverty of the many people who are enslaved. this includes the possibility for the haratin group to own land - land that the haratin have worked and cultivated for generations. the mauritanian government is called upon to take serious action in this regard. international companies operating in mauritania are also encouraged to ensure that they do not use forced or child labour. it is certainly also the eu's responsibility to ensure that it does not tolerate slavery in any way, including in its trade relations with mauritania, and not even indirectly.
a writer. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. it was only in may of this year that the international community was shocked by the death sentence against the sudanese christian woman maryam yahya ibrahim ishaq, who was to be executed for her faith. the immediate international outcry had allowed her to be released and leave sudan. now our urgent help and attention is needed by dr. amin mekki medani, a well-known human rights activist in his country, sudan, who was arrested and imprisoned by the sudanese intelligence on december 6 for signing the sudan call. in the sudan call, representatives of various political groups in sudan call for an end to the renewed fighting and human rights violations in various regions of sudan and the initiation of a peace and reconciliation process in preparation for the elections. we call for the immediate release of dr amin mekki medani, who is already 76 years old and is dependent on constant medication, which is denied to him by the sudanese security forces. this is life-threatening for him. we call on the authorities in sudan to finally initiate a peace process and to respect civil and human rights in their country.
in writing. as a long-time member of amnesty international and as a member of the human rights committee of this parliament, i am struck by the fact that human rights violations are increasing, particularly in islamic countries. yes, it is true, the death penalty is also in 24 states in the united states, but in most western countries it has been abolished. on the other hand, they exist in most islamic countries. yes, it is true that there are still massive human rights violations all over the world, but why are they recorded especially in islamic countries? why are more than 50% of the people, the girls and women, denied their human rights? in nigeria and iran, actual and alleged adulterers are stoned, in saudi arabia, women are not allowed to drive, in many islamic countries, the genitals of girls are mutilated, girls are not educated as well as boys, there are forced marriages. when will there be an unbiased discussion about the accumulation of human rights violations and the absence of press freedom and democracy in 55 out of 57 islamic countries? what are we doing to give the enlightened muslims more influence not only in lebanon and tunisia but in all islamic countries?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the refugee situation around the mediterranean is getting worse. the war waged by the islamic state in syria and iraq, as well as the fragile political and economic situation in north africa, are forcing more and more people to flee to europe. i am following the situation in syria very closely, particularly as a member of the mashreq delegation. we must help these people, especially those on the ground, but also those already in europe. the important thing is that all eu member states must support each other in this respect, according to their capabilities, as provided for in article 80 of the eu treaty. the distribution of the flows of refugees must be fair, otherwise we will be overburdening the population in our member states. i call on the commission to take this into account in the formulation of its refugee policy and to take appropriate measures to this end.
mr president, as a member of parliament from the czech republic, a former post-communist country which has had a tragic experience with the soviet union, i was very pleased and very pleased that we have today adopted and supported the association agreement with georgia, thus opening the way for this country, which was once part of the soviet union and where russia still exercises its influence, to join the democratic states, the family of european democratic states based on the rule of law. it is very important, i think, and it is very important that our policy, the policy of the european union, supports these former parts and countries of the former communist bloc and that it enables them to become lawful and prosperous states. we supported moldova in this way at the last meeting, we are supporting georgia in this way now, and i hope that this agreement will be a benefit to georgia in the development of the georgian state of law and the development of the georgian economy. i therefore consider it very important and i am glad that our policy is geared to the development of this part of eastern europe and, say, part of asia. it's very important, and i hope we'll continue to do so.
i have to say, madam president, i voted for the agreement because it is simply a start and because, as has already been said, it is a historic moment. how can you make the world a better place? you can make the world a better place by doing business, by treating each other with respect, by treating each other with respect, and by simply building trust. for me, this is a great confidence-building measure. we are also providing alternatives to the region and the country and together - i say it again - we are helping to make the world a little bit better. in this respect, i see this as a blueprint for further association agreements, so that we as the european union can bring not only our economic but also our political values to other regions. today, to oppose it would mean for me leaving this region a little bit alone.
in writing. i abstained, although there is much that is right in this resolution. i do not agree, however, with the claim that georgia is a european state. this is clearly wrong by geographical criteria, for georgia is in the forefront of asia. you could say that georgia has a european tradition culturally. i would agree with that, but on that basis israel would also be a european state. i welcome the fact that georgia is developing economically, democratically and in accordance with the rule of law, taking as its guiding principle the eu acquis. i also welcome georgia's participation in integration measures below the threshold of eu membership, as turkey is doing. i do not see any more european prospects for georgia.
in writing. although it is a positive development that georgia a country with an undoubted european history and culture is approaching the european union, i abstain on the association agreement. if it were a genuine free trade agreement and the promotion of human rights, democracy and the rule of law, i would be in full agreement. however, this agreement mixes the interests of the eu and its member states with those of nato. since i do not support the eu's role as a forerunner of nato, i am withdrawing my support for the association agreement.
in writing. i voted in favour of the association agreement because the agreement on a free trade area and georgia's commitments to the rule of law and democracy in the agreement are right and important. the agreement will bring significant progress, especially for the citizens of georgia. i do not think it is right that the agreement claims that georgia is a european state. this is clearly wrong by geographical criteria, for georgia is in the forefront of asia. you could say that georgia has a european tradition culturally. i would agree with that, but on that basis israel would also be a european state. i do not think it is right to include in the association agreement a clause on georgia's membership of europe, because these two things have nothing in common: the eu has also concluded association agreements with many non-european countries. but in view of the great real benefits of the agreement, particularly for the citizens, i have expressed my reservations about georgia's accession to europe. instead, i will state my objection in this statement. i also abstain on the resolution because it too claims that georgia belongs to europe.
in writing. although it is a positive development that georgia a country with an undoubted european history and culture is approaching the european union, i abstain on the association agreement. if it were a genuine free trade agreement and the promotion of human rights, democracy and the rule of law, i would be in full agreement. however, this agreement mixes the interests of the eu and its member states with those of nato. since i do not support the eu's role as a forerunner of nato, i am withdrawing my support for the association agreement.
