in writing. we, the danish social democrats in the european parliament, have voted in favour of the phil bennion report on the financial participation of employees in the profits of undertakings, but we are skeptical of the idea of a '29th scheme' mentioned in paragraph 16. we are opposed in principle to the idea of an alternative legal framework which could override the legislation of the member states in, for example, the tax field.
in writing. - i chose to vote neither for nor against paragraph 20 as i support the right of free movement of migrant workers in the eu and that they should be guaranteed proper labour rights and social security in the country where they work. but i do not think it is clear enough in paragraph 20 that national social security systems are primarily the responsibility of the member states.
madam chairman! i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very pleased with our new eu procurement rules. we are not getting fewer rules, but we are getting better rules. and there are many, many social democratic fingerprints on these rules. the list is long, so it is difficult to give it all, but we will have better opportunities to draw up social criteria and clauses. we'll have the opportunity to make chain responsibility to the main contractor. we will be able to take much more environmental considerations into account and we will facilitate access for the small local craftsman to be able to offer part-time jobs when a new hospital is to be built. and as has been said many times today, it should no longer be the cheapest, but the best deal available. i think the list is long, and it's gonna be some good new rules. it is not all good, but i think that our rules here are a great step forward and it is now up to the member states to deliver. thank you, sir.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women 's rights and gender equality . - madam president! reindustrialisation of europe is essential to create growth and new jobs. we need production and solid jobs in industry, because we cannot live by services alone. europe needs modern, sustainable industry that produces in an energy-efficient way. i therefore welcome the focus on knowledge, technology, innovation and energy efficiency in this report. i also welcome the focus on the skills of the workforce, because if we are to create growth and jobs and compete well, it is essential that we also make the best possible use of human resources. it is therefore also important to integrate the gender dimension into european industrial policy, since we must not only recruit workers from the male half of the population. we also need the talent pool of women, and i am very pleased that equal pay, the focus on women in industry, women entrepreneurs and women's opportunities for continuing training and upskilling are now included in the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the revision of the procurement directive because the revised procurement directive is better than the previous directive, as it allows for the promotion of social considerations and environmental aspects. the revised directive also makes it easier for the public sector to contact companies about a tender. it can ease the administrative burden. but the main problem with eu tenders is not overcome by this directive. the thresholds are still too low and it is a problem to set the same value throughout the eu as it does not take account of the large economic differences. it is problematic that the revised directive does not change this fundamentally. the revised directive allows the public sector to weigh quality, accessibility, etc., but does not require it to do so. it is important that public authorities ensure that taxpayers' money is used only for purchases that meet the requirements of decent wages and working conditions and environmental considerations.
mr president, i would like to thank you. public procurement is an important part of the european economy, and over €350 billion is spent on procurement in the eu each year. so this is not a small amount of money we're talking about. i voted for the report today because it is about increasing trade and also creating equal competition, but at the same time it requires more reciprocity in trade with, for example, china and other third countries. we cannot afford to be as naive as we have been when it comes to international trade and public procurement. for example, large chinese state-funded companies should not be allowed to mine gold in greece or to help build a fehmern link between germany and denmark if european companies are not given access to similar opportunities in china. i'm glad you're considering it. it will allow national authorities to reject tenders or offers where a significant part of the contract is supplied by goods or services from countries which do not comply with international rules. in particular, serious discrimination against european companies and repeated violations of international agreements should be subject to fines and bans.
in writing. − the danish social democrats in the european parliament abstained from voting on caspary report a7-0454/2013, as action in it may risk having inappropriate and unintended negative consequences both on the european market and in terms of access to third country markets. we are in favour of free trade and an open market for public investment. reciprocity and a focus on mutual benefit - that is, benefit for european citizens as well as the citizens of the respective third countries - are essential in this respect. the imbalance in access to public procurement markets in certain third countries can be addressed, for example, through trade agreements.
in writing. we, the danish social democrats, have today voted in favour of the envi report on honey and supported the amendments which define gmo pollen as an ingredient. we do not necessarily think that this solution - where pollen is generally considered a natural component of honey but is considered an ingredient once the bees have collected pollen from gmo crops - is the best. we understand that there may be confusion with two definitions of pollination, but the reason for our support is that we feel it is necessary to inform consumers about gmo content. we would like to see the forthcoming negotiations between the european parliament and the council of ministers lead to the fact that honey producers living close to fields of gmo crops will have to declare this on the honey. that solution is not on the table at the moment, but we hope that it can be a compromise in the negotiations. in supporting the report we are really only supporting the subject being put to the vote. many consumers are concerned about the use of gmos and we believe that they have a right to be informed about the content of gmos in food. the adoption of the commission proposal will not allow for gmo labelling. we support the gmo pollen as an ingredient proposals in the hope that a compromise will be found which creates both clarity of rules and the possibility of gmo labelling.
in writing. - i am against gmos and therefore of course against gmos in honey. i believe that denmark should be a gmo-free zone and that denmark should introduce a ban on the import of honey from countries which are not gmo-free. if the danish government took these steps, there would be no need to label honey in denmark. in a number of areas i can support labelling of products concerning gmos. but i cannot support the specific proposal by mrs girling (a7-0440/2013) on the gmo labelling of honey. such labelling can never be credible and cannot therefore replace a ban on gmos. in addition, i think it is wrong to impose on farm shops and doorstep sales from small beekeepers the same testing and labelling requirements as large industry.
for the edf group. i am not sure that this is the case. it is becoming a citizen of a country, it is becoming part of a family; it is being welcomed by the original family with open arms; it is a declaration of trust, where you are told that you are good enough, that you belong! it's not something to mess around with. it is not something to be put up for sale, as we see it in malta and elsewhere. but i also believe in national sovereignty, and that is why i will not tell the maltese what to do. but i would say that this example shows how dangerous, how wrong and how unmanageable it was to introduce a citizenship of the union, where one tries to lift the differences between the different nations and give everyone the same rights: rights to social benefits, rights of residence, voting rights and what have you. it is really what is being sold with malta as the intermediary but with the european commission as the seller, as the initiator, as the idea maker. you're the ones who should be ashamed. i understand that viviane reding left the chamber so that she would not hear the debate.
i have to say, madam president, i am very pleased that this issue is on the agenda today, because gender equality, freedom and human dignity are some of the fundamental values of the union! it also includes the right to sexual and health rights. in several member states, teenage pregnancies are increasing because the law is not working! there is no family planning and no preventive measures for unwanted pregnancies. when women are denied the option of abortion, they are also denied the freedom to control their own bodies. and now we hear that the spanish government wants to take the country's abortion laws back 30 years! it is a very worrying development, which will result in women who can afford it going abroad and having their pregnancies terminated, while poor women will be left to the care of health-threatening quacks, with death as the worst consequence. we know from all our countries that in the 50s, 40s, 60s, there were many women who died with these quacks. i cannot understand why the men who are so busy controlling women's bodies in spain, instead of concentrating, as our previous speakers said, on men who put women in this situation. we know there's rape in a lot of marriages, so we're just gonna settle this like we're not a civilization? europe is a civilization, we should not use the same methods as if we were afghanistan.
in writing. - i would like to emphasise that i am in favour of free movement as a right guaranteed to all european citizens. there must be no discrimination against workers who make use of the freedom of movement. but i recognize that in some countries there may be a legitimate concern about what is right and fair in relation to when you can receive specific benefits. in denmark we have a universal welfare model, characterised by a large public sector and a relatively high tax burden. restricting access to welfare services, for example through the principle of accrual, can reduce the pressure on public finances. i would therefore not condemn, from a legal and equitable point of view, a debate on economic incentives to emigrate, the fairness of the payment of specific benefits and the principles of accrual which can be applied to the financing problem.
the commission. mr president, for the second time in less than a year, we are debating in this house a resolution which directly refers to a specific person, namely sombath somphone. sombath was abducted on 15 december 2012 outside a police station in the lao capital vientiane and has not been seen since. why are we bringing this up again? we do so because before his disappearance, sombath worked with peaceful means for human rights, education and a sustainable environment and, among other things, helped organize the ninth "asian-european peoples forum" which was held in vientiane shortly before his abduction. but we are also doing it because sombath has become a symbol, a symbol for all those who are working for better relations in laos and in the rest of asia, but who are being repressed. the authorities in laos are trying to make sombath's disappearance a thing of the past. they are dragging their feet, refusing to take even the most obvious steps to resolve the matter. i experienced this myself when i visited laos last autumn. in an e-mail last week, the laotian embassy in brussels admits that the last status report on the search was dated june 7, 2013, more than six months ago. this is a scandal! the resolution we are presenting calls for action and we state that a lack of clarification is an obstacle to laos' membership of the un human rights council. but if that does not work, we must proceed with real sanctions against laos. we owe it to sombath, we owe it to his family, we owe it to all those who fight for human rights in asia! sombath will not be forgotten!
the s&d group is not in favour of this. i would like to thank the president-in-office. thank you for speaking and thank you to the rapporteur for your cooperation. safety and health at work is and has always been a top priority for the socialist group. the charter of fundamental rights stresses that every worker has the right to working conditions in which safety and health are respected. and it must never be seen as an administrative burden! the commission's hesitation on the question of social dialogue and, in particular, the agreement between employers and workers in the hairdressing sector is particularly regrettable. the fact that the social partners cannot decide for themselves what is best for the hairdressing profession is simply too bad. i find it reprehensible that some of the member states are putting pressure on the commission to prevent the adoption of these agreements. and i find it deeply regrettable that the commission is giving in to pressure and is not doing anything to keep its promises to improve the opportunities for social dialogue. as shadow rapporteur on this specific case of packaging and chemical content, i have worked to ensure that health and safety at work and proper standards are not seen as a burden or cost for companies and thus serve as an excuse for employers not to protect their employees. good information and education can help to prevent injuries and accidents at work, and i am glad that we emphasize that these are the professions which are particularly exposed to the dangers of chemicals. for example, factory workers or hairdressers are often exposed to dangerous chemicals in their daily work without being informed of the risks they are exposing themselves to. i am therefore satisfied with this piece of legislation overall, but in the big picture there is still a greater struggle to be fought in relation to ensuring decent and healthy working conditions for workers in europe.
madam chairman! our european cooperation is based on respect for human dignity, freedom and democracy, equality and human rights. yet a new european survey shows that homosexuals face discrimination and harassment, both in the workplace and when renting an apartment, and that a quarter have been physically attacked in public spaces. it is time now for both the commission and the council to commit themselves to tackling this kind of discrimination. we have called for a comprehensive policy to combat homophobia in europe on ten occasions here in the european parliament. i would therefore urge the commission and the member states to work together on an action plan which includes new initiatives and, not least, ensures that the commission monitors member states' compliance with existing eu legislation in this area. i really hope that tomorrow parliament will vote on the basis of the fundamental values on which our cooperation is based and not on the basis of a humanistic view that belongs to the middle ages.
for the ecr group. mr president, commissioners, i would like to thank you for your work. europe must have a green economy where co2 pollution is a thing of the past. we agree. on the paper! to achieve this, targets such as the 2030 goals must act as bridges between where we are and where we are going. some colleagues are speaking against the ambitious 2030 targets, and this reminds me of the arguments i heard when we were making the rules against acid rain, the rules on the protection of the ozone layer and on improving air quality. there were arguments such as: "it would place unnecessary burdens on business, which would disappear abroad". but these are excuses based on a lack of faith in the creativity of european enterprises. that may be my main message here. the committee on the environment and the committee on industry adopted their recommendations for the 2030 targets less than a month ago, and thus sent a signal for an ambitious climate policy. it is a prerequisite for future sustainable economic development that what we have on paper now finally becomes a reality in the member states.
mr president, i would like to thank you. - i'm not going to lie to you. i'm not going to let you do this. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this report comes at a very important time when we have to choose the way forward for the future and common climate and energy policy of the european union. the eu was brave in 2008 when we chose to take the lead in the fight against climate change. our policy has also meant that we have created new green jobs in europe. that is a policy which i think we should continue. it is therefore essential that we continue to pursue the three binding targets for co2 reductions, renewable energy and energy savings. in the eu we spend over 500 billion euros every year on importing oil and gas. this is more than the total gross domestic product of poland. this is money that could be put to much better use: investing in europe for renewable energy and energy saving. it will also create jobs and growth in european countries - notably local jobs, which cannot just be moved to china and elsewhere. not least, it will also mean cheaper energy in the long run. binding and clear objectives are also needed to attract investment in new technologies. europe must produce its own energy, and investments in, for example, offshore wind turbines are essential if we are to move towards self-sufficiency. that is why the commission's approach is not ambitious enough! there are no targets for energy savings and a greater share of renewable energy. it is essential that parliament shows the way forward. we must send a clear signal to the member states that we must continue on the ambitious path. this is the only way to ensure europe's independence from imported energy. today, putin is dictating our energy prices! it's not the renewable energy! gasprom is in charge! i would therefore strongly recommend that we vote tomorrow in favour of three binding objectives.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the need for a fundamental update of the control regulation and the technical regulations has been felt for a long time. the new fisheries policy requires it to be done now. controls have become a huge burden on eu fisheries, with fishermen and authorities measuring, weighing and controlling to a degree that does not create more sustainable fisheries, only more paper piles. of course we need common control rules and to combat fraud, but i believe that through research and new technology we can simplify and make it more efficient. we must live up to the commitments of the new fisheries policy, namely to create real regionalisation and good conditions for fisheries. this is the only way to achieve the objectives of the new policy. let us start working as soon as possible on new common and simpler control rules which create fair competition and healthy fisheries. i thank the rapporteur for this work.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is strange that we are here today, because the european union has really good rules on the rights of air passengers in the event of cancellations and delays. the problem is, the rules aren't being followed. it is therefore, of course, good that the european commission has wanted to clarify these rules. that is fine, but it is a pity that the european commission has also decided to water down the rules. today, fortunately, we are addressing here in the european parliament some of the worst things the commission does in its clarity. but in my opinion, we are not going far enough. we should protect the passengers! one of the silly elements is that people perceive the strike as an unusual event. well, why is it unusual to strike? i think that airlines can do a lot to ensure that they treat their staff properly so that they do not have to go on strike. and if the staff goes on strike anyway, it's going to affect the passengers, and that's why they need to be protected. but fortunately, we're going to straighten that out a little today - and thank you for that!
the committee on women's rights and gender equality has adopted a report on the situation in the european union. - mr president! - what is it? - i'm not going to lie to you. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. every year, labour is imported from outside europe for seasonal work in the eu. many seasonal workers are subject to gross exploitation by employers because they do not know their rights. many women seasonal workers in particular are subject to forced overtime, exhausting working hours, physical hard work and lower pay than their male colleagues, and in the worst cases, they are subject to abuse and sexual exploitation. this legislation is designed to protect workers against exploitation. but at the same time, the law must also help to combat illegal immigration, illegal work and the black economy. mafia methods and organised crime thrive in the black economy, and their victims are most often vulnerable women who are at risk of becoming victims of human trafficking and forced prostitution. so when we in europe receive labour from third countries who are helping to create economic growth in our country, we are also obliged to ensure that they work and live in proper conditions and are protected against exploitation.
in writing. - the danish social democrats in the european parliament (christel schaldemose, britta thomsen, ole christensen, emilie turunen and claus larsen-jensen) abstained from voting on the report on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of seasonal work (a7-0428/2013-138) for the sole reason that the proposal is covered by the danish reservation of rights. we believe that the proposal addresses a relevant and serious problem in relation to workers' rights and contains a number of sensible solutions which we fully support and support.
in writing. - we social democrats in the danish delegation are in favour of free and fair trade and are therefore critical of the possibility of imposing a penalty which is higher than the harmful effect, as this could, for example, have a negative effect on the development of green technology. apart from the rules on ldr, ratification of environmental agreements and ilo conventions are key areas for us. we can generally support elements of the proposal and the intention to create greater efficiency.
i have to say, madam president, i'm not going to let you do this. under the guise of being a religious and cultural tradition, female circumcision is still being performed on women all over the world, including here in the eu! in europe alone, it is estimated that half a million women suffer from physical and psychological problems after having been subjected to genital mutilation. it is estimated that 180,000 girls and women are at risk of being subjected to fgm right now. circumcision is one of the most transnational forms of abuse and violence against women. there is no medical reason for these surgical procedures, which remove large parts of the female genital organs, and they are often performed, usually in unhygienic and unsanitary conditions and without anesthesia. this barbaric and extreme form of sex discrimination is inhuman and contrary to our fundamental european values and fundamental human rights. i therefore welcome the commission's initiatives to strengthen action against female circumcision. it is very important that the commission has introduced a zero tolerance policy on circumcision and that this policy must be enforced in the member states! i would like to take this opportunity to stress the need for legislation to prevent violence against women. a law that applies throughout europe and that also includes female circumcision so that we can get rid of this abhorrent form of abuse.
mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i would say that it is of course very good that there is a clarification of the rights of air passengers. but i would also say that it is very regrettable that the commission apparently thinks that strikes are something that must be regarded as exceptional circumstances. it is quite clear that the commission is taking this opportunity to say that strikes are simply not the fault of the airlines. but that's not true! if airlines treat their employees properly, they can easily avoid strikes. that is why i find it deeply regrettable.
in writing. i'm deeply concerned about the climate goals that have been set. when experts and ngos say that we need to reduce co2 emissions by 80-95% by 2050, 40% by 2030 is not enough. at the same time, we must say that the target for renewable energy is far, far too low. we need to take a serious responsibility for our world and that means we need to set some more adequate targets. unfortunately, it's not just about the objectives. the instruments are also problematic. for example, the quota system will continue, even though it has long since proved its inefficiency. we have used it for a long time, but when the price of a single emission has been close to zero, it has been practically free to pollute, and the system does not work. we have to come up with a better solution!
in writing. - the socialist delegation in the european parliament supports the report on the european semester, which we consider to be fundamentally balanced and sensible. however, we would point out that we do not support a new system of own resources. we would also point out that although the report makes a number of recommendations to the member states, particularly in relation to tax policy measures, it is up to the member states themselves to decide which policy measures are to be applied.
for the ecr group. madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, this is mr grossetête. thank you for your work. 14 million european children are now overweight and 3 million are clinically obese. every year half a million people die from smoking and one in three men and one in four women in the eu will be affected by cancer before they reach the age of 75. i am just mentioning a few figures, which other colleagues have already done. the list of health challenges is very long, and new problems arise daily as europe's populations have become internationally mobile. it is therefore important that we learn to prevent and share our knowledge among all eu countries in order to meet the challenges, for example, of the increasing number of multidrug-resistant diseases. we should have the same high standards for medical devices and treatments in all member states. we must create the framework for our populations to understand that there is a concrete link between lifestyle and public health. we should support health by producing high-quality, environmentally friendly medical devices and by developing new health solutions and modern treatment methods. i am glad to see that the health of the growth programme should be based on the principles of co-financing and co-ownership in the member states, because only in this way can we ensure long-term success. i thank you for the floor and will vote in favour of the motion tomorrow.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i voted against the railway package today for three main reasons: firstly, the eu must not interfere in how we organise our local passenger transport. secondly, the commission's proposal means further privatisation of one of the most important public services, and we know that privatisation will be at the expense of the safety of passengers and employees. if you are in doubt, just look at how things have gone in britain. and thirdly, it is absolutely unacceptable that a parliament which claims to represent the european citizens should put forward a proposal which is so contrary to the right of citizens to strike. yesterday i participated in the transport workers' demonstration. today i voted against the rail package, both for the passengers and for the employees. thank you, chairman!
in writing. - we, the social democratic delegation in the european parliament (christel schaldemose, ole christensen, britta thomsen), support the parliament's consideration of the insurance brokerage directive, which will in many ways improve consumer protection in relation to insurance brokerage and the direct sale of insurance products. we would, however, like to stress that it is important that member states - including denmark - which have a prohibition on commissions should be able to maintain it for the sake of consumers, as the prohibition prevents conflicts of interest and increases the transparency of the remuneration structure. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the member states are able to maintain the prohibition of the use of commissions when the directive enters into force.
the commission is not - mr president! - what is it? yes, i look forward to the vote on my report here today. i believe that this is an important step towards a more efficient and well-functioning internal market. it is no secret that when i was drawing up my report i was a little frustrated that four years ago we were facing the same problems and that now, four years later, we are not seeing any significant progress in relation to the solvit centres. in my work on the report i have therefore focused on taking solvit one step further - to a new and better level - a solvit 2.0 one might call it. this will mean, among other things, a stronger focus on the use of solvit by business. i think we need to put pressure on the commission and the national solvit centres to get them to take on more complex business-related cases. this has been a problem and still is. many examples of overregulation, late or incorrect implementation of directives, or examples of structural problems arising when national rules are in conflict with eu law are discovered through solvit centres, but the problems are not solved here. this could be remedied if solvit centres tackle more complex business-related cases, which would greatly benefit the internal market. in order to achieve these objectives, i have put forward the following specific proposals in the report: of course, the centres need more resources, more money. the lack of staffing in these solvit centres is a fundamental problem which is repeatedly demonstrated. moreover, the staff must be professionally dressed for the task and must have the necessary knowledge of case law. of course, the business community also needs to be better informed about solvit and how to use these centres. it has been a perennial problem, so there will also be a better information effort, which requires more resources. in the case of business-related matters, which are often complex, as mentioned earlier, the national solvit centres should be encouraged to communicate and cooperate with the applicant to clarify issues, which unfortunately is often not the case today! it's also a communication deficit. i am proposing in concrete terms that we make a distinction between civil and commercial cases in order to give greater attention to the challenges facing the business sector. civil cases are often simpler and are also more successfully dealt with by solvit centres on the spot. the commission should examine how the 'naming and shaming' principle can be used to encourage member states to improve this case management. the commission should set relevant and measurable milestones for the desired development of solvit and follow up to see if these objectives are being achieved. as part of this work, i believe that the objectives of solvit and your europe should be included in monitoring at eu and national level within the european semester and followed up with targeted national recommendations. if the desired objectives are not achieved within a given time limit, it may be necessary, as we point out in the report, to consider replacing the informal procedure by a legislative act. but that time that grief. let us now see if these measurable measures can correct the imbalance that exists today. i hope that with the many concrete proposals we can have more well-functioning solvit centres in the future and i look forward very much to the vote.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. madam president, i should like to start by welcoming the increased focus of the european investment bank on creating growth and jobs. in view of the catastrophic developments of recent years, employment is of particular importance and requires massive investment. we cannot of course sit idly by when youth unemployment in spain, for example, is 57.7%. it is therefore regrettable that the union's overall efforts to combat youth unemployment must be carried out within the damaging economic framework of widespread cuts. but it is almost even more regrettable that, despite good intentions, the investment bank has not succeeded in getting all the resources available to be invested in the most vulnerable countries. it is simply deeply unsatisfactory. we cannot solve the problems through the investment bank alone. this requires a real break with economic policy. fortunately, there is hope for improvement in the investment bank in the years ahead. we in this parliament must take care to follow up on this. but there is another point to which we must pay particular attention, namely the question of which projects are being invested in the field of climate and energy. it is important that the investments are in line with the climate and energy policy we have adopted, which aims to increase the focus on renewable energy. this means, of course, that the eib will not invest in coal or nuclear power, but also that the eib will pay particular attention to involving the local population in large projects that have a significant impact on the local environment.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the american whistleblower edward snowden, in his reply to the european parliament, mentions denmark specifically, but like the other member states, my government refuses to deal with the nsa's spying - in fact, they do not even want to deal with the fact that surveillance has taken place. it's clear that the nsa spied on the cop15 climate summit in copenhagen. i was part of the parliament's delegation and i was able to see how an ambitious strategy was being dismantled. i'd like to know exactly what role the nsa came to play. who was being watched? were european interests compromised? how did monitoring affect the disappointing outcome of the copenhagen climate summit? i cannot understand why none of our governments cares about this matter. it is a matter of disgracing our credibility and it could have very bad consequences in the future if it continues in this way and if narrow diplomatic national interests take over.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am in favour of free movement of labour, but if there is one thing i am not in favour of, it is free movement of wage-pressure! take the shipping industry. the court of justice of the european union has established that maritime transport is covered by the rules on non-discrimination. nevertheless, in denmark we have the dis law, which says that seafarers who are not resident in denmark cannot be covered by danish collective agreements. eu non-discrimination rules should not only apply to access to jobs, they should also apply to the pay and working conditions under which people work. take the ark futura, for example: here polish seamen have to accept wages and working conditions that are far inferior to those of their danish colleagues. the eu's unilateral focus on the right to free movement must stop. it is time to take action against discrimination in pay and working conditions. and there is a simple solution: the principle of the receiving country. this means that you must work under the conditions of the country in which you are employed. the fight against discrimination and social dumping is inextricably linked and the introduction of the recipient country principle is the only way forward.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i thank mr wałęsa for the excellent report, but i think there are two things we should be aware of in this committee, which is the real citizens' committee of this parliament. firstly, it is the only committee which has not been given additional resources under the lisbon treaty. at the same time, the number of petitions has increased considerably! the solution here is not to say that we should introduce more efficient methods - i do not think we can make the work much more efficient than we are! the way forward is to add more resources to better equip our secretariat. secondly, i would like to support what mr baldini said in his speech. he said it well: that the committee should be free from all state and party political interests. the report proposes that the cases to be dealt with should be voted on. but it is a dangerous path, because then it will be party politics and not with full respect for the fact that citizens, regardless of party interests, are heard in their complaints to us.
in writing. - i agree with most danes that the common european agricultural policy is highly distortive and harmful to the developing countries. that is why i voted against the de castro report, because it deals with export aid which could just as well be called dumping aid. however, amendment no 19 by the epp is not properly placed in this report. it is not in a recital in a technical report on the export aid scheme that the fight against agricultural aid should be taken. i voted against this frivolous amendment, but have changed it to abstain, as i usually do when i vote on proposals whose content i support but whose context is frivolous.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. madam president, i have proposed that parliament should refuse to accept the commission's proposal on the european public prosecutor's office and i would have called on the council to do the same. the commission's proposal has been rejected by 14 chambers of national parliaments in 11 different member states. the national parliaments believe that the proposal violates the principle of subsidiarity and that it goes far too far. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. others point out that the proposal is not in line with the rule of law. i fully support the criticisms of the national parliaments and i do not think it is right for the commission to ignore them in this way. the commission proposal must not only be given the yellow card, it must be thrown out of the race altogether.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. mr president, thank you to edith bauer for her excellent cooperation on this report. it has been a very good process and i also think that we have reached a fine and good result. the establishment of the internal market with the free movement of goods, services, capital and labour required the establishment of certain rules on the free movement of labour. it was therefore decided that social security could be obtained only in one country, namely the country where one has his main employment and where one pays his taxes. i say this so clearly because in my country, denmark, too, it may sometimes be necessary to remind people of the basic rules, since they are not always aware of how the european rules are actually interwoven. if you come to a country and work and pay taxes there, you are also entitled to social benefits from that country. as regards the second category of workers, the secondment of workers who have to return to their country of origin, they are not covered by the social system of the country where they work but of the country from which they come. it's also where they pay their taxes. i think it is extremely important to stick to these two principles to ensure that people understand why foreign workers are equal - including in terms of receiving social benefits. rights and duties are interrelated. it is also important to establish - as is the case with frontier workers - that there should be no discrimination on grounds of residence. in this case, you work and are covered by social security in one country but live in another. it is important to note that this category must no longer be discriminated against. we must strengthen the role of the authorities and the social partners and we must help to ensure equal pay and equal working conditions. there is a great deal more to be done in terms of cooperation between the countries and information, as has been the case with many others. the collective rights in the nordic countries, where it is possible to bring a case against a person who is being treated unfairly, should also be strengthened. all in all, it is a good report and we have had a good cooperation on it.
in writing. i am in favour of free movement of workers but i am against social dumping. i believe that the issue of non-discrimination in access to the labour market (and welfare) of the member states must go hand in hand with the fight against social dumping. the proposal in question does not solve the problem that equal pay and conditions for foreign workers cannot be demanded. this requirement has been undermined, for example, by the judgment of the court of justice of the european union in laval/vaxholm. the proposal also raises doubts about the ability of member states to impose conditions on access to the welfare services of the member states. this is the case, for example, with the residence requirement. that is why i have abstained from this vote.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thanks to parliament's libe committee for this study of nsa surveillance of eu citizens. the study condemns the fundamental rights of citizens. the study also stresses the need to further strengthen the transatlantic partnership and use it to combat terrorism. i think that is regrettable, because mass surveillance is an attack on the freedom of eu citizens and it should have consequences. that is why i have been one of the proponents of an immediate suspension of the pnr agreement and the ttp negotiations. the interests of economic cooperation with the united states and the war against terrorism should not therefore take precedence over the rights of citizens. i have nevertheless voted in favour of the report because it sends an important signal from this parliament to the united states. we would not accept that citizens are being monitored and this must stop immediately.
in writing. - the danish social democrats in the european parliament (christel schaldemose, ole christensen and emilie turunen) voted in favour of the report on the us nsa surveillance programme, surveillance bodies in various member states and their impact on the fundamental rights of eu citizens, and on transatlantic cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs (2013/2188 (ini)) as we believe that the report addresses a relevant issue of safeguarding citizens' fundamental rights in relation to data processing and that it proposes a number of sensible solutions. although there are phrases in the proposal that we cannot support, and although we both believe that these issues are the responsibility of national governments and that intelligence services should be able to respond to complex security threats, we believe that the report as a whole sends the right signal to strengthen the protection of the fundamental rights of eu citizens.
in writing. - we, the danish social democrats, support the report on citizenship of the union in general. however, we cannot support a few points in the report. the report is concerned with paragraph 9 in which it is deplored that some member states have derogations from parts of the eu treaty. denmark, like several other eu countries, has a number of reservations and special rules (e.g. the summer house rule), which have been accepted by all other eu countries and which are democratically enshrined in denmark through referendums. similarly, we cannot support paragraph 17 of the report which 'calls on those member states which deprive their own nationals who have chosen to reside in another member state for a longer period of time of the right to vote to put an end to this practice'. this is in direct contradiction to article 29 of the constitution, which states that one must be resident in denmark in order to have the right to vote.
i have to say, madam president, first of all, i would like to congratulate you on yesterday's agreement. it's good that things are moving forward. but when iceland is not part of the agreement, the problem is not solved either. the dispute shows, in my view, the absurdity of the eu's fisheries policy. it's not about overfishing versus sustainability, no, it's about money. everyone agrees that mackerel has moved, and it was therefore not surprising that the faroe islands and iceland wanted to catch more in their waters. but the mackerel war is not just a display of european greed. forcing denmark to impose sanctions on part of the danish commonwealth also shows how absurd the european union is. i would really urge the commission not to go ahead with sanctions against iceland. sanctions do not solve this problem, there should be an agreement on the table instead.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs gardiaźabal rubial, for including two issues in the guidelines relating to the 2014 budget, for which i was rapporteur, namely the alarming situation of payment appropriations for humanitarian aid and the situation of the decentralised agencies. already at the beginning of 2014, as many have mentioned, there are problems with payments for humanitarian aid, much to our surprise. but we're getting reports from ngos that they're having to cut back on food distribution and hospitals. the commission speaks of 'a necessary priority'. the truth is that the tight framework for payment appropriations has a cash effect. as regards the agencies, i am pleased that we have set up the interinstitutional working party so that we can make a sensible assessment of all agencies on a case-by-case basis and establish realistic budgets and staff numbers from the 2015 budget onwards. there must be coherence between resources and the tasks assigned to the agencies by law. we need a better way of working with the inter-agency relationship. it is not for chance during budget negotiations or the ability of the agencies to speak well of themselves that should guide their appropriations. it is necessary to have more permanent monitoring of the decentralised agencies and a coherent approach.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i am not sure that this is the case. we have achieved a good result after four years of work and sometimes rather acute negotiations. first of all, i would like to thank mr glenis for his serious and inclusive work. let me sum up what i am most excited about, namely that we have achieved real openness in the pharmaceutical industry and that we can thus hopefully prevent not only unethical experiments in the future but also, sometimes, too great damage to our health budgets, where it has simply been too expensive many times that we have not had control of the medicines that have come in. i need only mention tamiflu as a chilling example. i don't want to go into how that openness works. that is what glenis has described very well in his speech. i just want to say, the fight is not over! in leaked documents from the ttip negotiations it has emerged that big pharma, the us industry, has explicitly mentioned that they want this law to be withdrawn. they want to be free of all that openness; they believe that simplification will always benefit big industry. there is also a risk of this unless we all stand ready to fight for the patients, for the citizens, for the health budgets and for the progressive industry that wants to behave properly and needs strict rules and strict controls. thank you, mr president.
the rapporteur is requesting the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. - mr president! - what is it? thank you for speaking. when i hear mrs kammerevert, i cannot help but shake my head, because if there is no one to make money from the roll-out of the internet, there is no one to roll it out either, and then we end up in a situation where the internet is open to all those who live in the big cities, while it is completely closed to all those who live in all other areas. there must be a balance between ensuring an open internet and ensuring incentives for investment, because everything else is a direct escape from reality. so i would like to commend my good liberal commissioner, mrs kroes, for having had the courage to put forward a package which ensures a much better european playing field for us all. we are abolishing roaming and thus improving mobility in europe. we are balancing the open internet with incentives to invest in broadband, which is important, especially in sparsely populated areas, and then we are bringing member states together in a coordination of our resources. this is extremely important if we are to create a single market, and that is the aim. there are many industrial interests at stake, and many citizens' interests at stake. we have tried as liberals to bring these interests together where they may have been opposed, and it has been clear from the debate that there have been conflicting interests at times. we have tried throughout the process on the liberal side to bring these interests together and to make some compromises which may not be 100 per cent rational for everyone but which everyone can see themselves in in the end, and that is why i am very pleased to be able to tell both mrs del castillo and the commissioner today that it is a united liberal group which is going to vote for the united telecommunications package, and i am very pleased about that because it is a step in the right direction for the whole of europe. thank you! the speaker agrees to answer a blue card question under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. yes, and that's why balance is so important. you cannot just say that industry is not our interest, only the citizens. the citizens need industry too. it's about finding a balance. i think that we have found a balance in the liberal group so that interests can come together and go together, and not that everything is in disarray.
the committee on culture and education has tabled an opinion. - mr president! - what is it? as a representative of the committee on culture, i must say that we in this committee are also quite satisfied with the implementation of the 2012 budget. it is common in the small things department to have something to cling to. overall, the mobility programmes are doing very well. we also welcome the fact that the european institute of innovation and technology, the eit, has got off to a good start. in reality, most of the problems we encounter are in the area of communication. so far, three networks have been operating: television, radio and the internet to provide news about europe, namely euronews, euronet and press-europe. suddenly the press-europe internet section is shut down without parliament having been consulted. at the same time, the television site is being heavily upgraded, with 5 million euros earmarked for providing arabic news to euronews. several european languages are still not covered by euronews 20 years after the launch of euronews, and that is why we have asked the commission to provide viewership figures. is there any real utility in spending 5 million on broadcasting euronews in arabic? we have to ask. we need to clarify that, because if that is not the case, we can certainly use the money better, for example for a proper internet part. thank you for that!
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. thank you, mr president. first of all, i would like to thank the colleagues who have produced good and critical reports on the 2012 accounts of the eu institutions. some might think that we in this committee have been a little too critical, for example when we question our own way of spending money here in the european parliament, or when we criticise the commission's management of the eu budget. there is good reason, however, to be critical. for example, the commission's error rate has increased for the third year in a row. so it's going the wrong way for the third year in a row. unfortunately, the commission has developed a style of taking responsibility when things are going well and renouncing responsibility when things are going wrong. this is, of course, totally unacceptable. that is many billions of euros which are tainted by error or fraud. that money could have been used for good things, like jobs or the environment. that is why i shall be voting against tomorrow, and i hope that many others will do the same. we must have real action on the table, and we shall not have it if we continue to give the commission a free hand and no, we are not too critical! our task is to identify the sensitive points on behalf of the european taxpayers. one would think that the growing distrust of the public towards the eu would mean that all the eu institutions would make an extra effort to be more open and to show that the public is wrong when it feels left out of influence. but we must simply say that the council will not contribute to a more open and democratic europe. the council has had the chance to give discharge in 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and now in 2012, but the council still does not want to answer parliament's questions on the council's accounts, and that is why i fully support the committee's position not to give discharge to the council tomorrow. there are therefore very good reasons to continue the debate on how the eu budget is organised and managed. thank you!
in writing. - we, the danish social democrats in the european parliament, have today voted in favour of the first reading agreement on the electronic identification of cattle (eid). we admit that the outcome of the deal is not optimal. we are in favour of rapid and effective tracing of infected animals and foodstuffs and of good and easy to understand food labelling, which is beneficial for consumers. the new legislation means that the eid will be officially recognised but voluntary to use as a method of identification. the best thing would perhaps be to make eid compulsory in the long term, but this has not been possible to achieve and we believe that the alternative - i.e. no official recognition of eid - is worse than introducing eid on a voluntary basis. the voluntary scheme will, in all other respects, provide incentives for member states to use the eid more than they do today. we believe that consumers have a right to fair food information. however, the voluntary labelling scheme, which is now being abolished, has proved to be less effective due to the lack of common eu standards. we also understood that the abolition of the scheme would not have any substantive significance, since it would be covered by the food labelling regulation. we have therefore voted in favour of the new legislation because we believe that a 'no' vote will not provide a better alternative.
in writing. - we, the danish social democrats in the european parliament, have today voted in favour of the first reading agreement on the electronic identification of cattle (eid). we admit that the outcome of the deal is not optimal. we are in favour of rapid and effective tracing of infected animals and foodstuffs and of good and easy to understand food labelling, which is beneficial for consumers. the new legislation means that the eid will be officially recognised but voluntary to use as a method of identification. the best thing would perhaps be to make eid compulsory in the long term, but this has not been possible to achieve and we believe that the alternative - i.e. no official recognition of eid - is worse than introducing eid on a voluntary basis. the voluntary scheme will, in all other respects, provide incentives for member states to use the eid more than they do today. we believe that consumers have a right to fair food information. however, the voluntary labelling scheme, which is now being abolished, has proved to be less effective due to the lack of common eu standards. we also understood that the abolition of the scheme would not have any substantive significance, since it would be covered by the food labelling regulation. we have therefore voted in favour of the new legislation because we believe that a 'no' vote will not provide a better alternative.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i think we have to deal with this issue in the current period. we are talking about 80% of all jobs being created in small and mediumsized enterprises. that is why we need this debate. it is important for smes that we focus on this area!
mr president, i would like to thank you. i can support the analysis of the so-called eco-liners. some of my colleagues here call them "mega-trucks". in the nordic countries we have actually had these eco liners for a number of years, where we have been able to carry extra cargo across borders. we must say that we are emitting less co2; we have fewer lorries; we have lowered prices and i think we have actually made good progress. i can hear my austrian colleague here, so it is not that, but i would have liked to see us expand the areas in europe where we could drive eco-liners. it would be good for the environment, and it would be good for business. i am satisfied that we in the nordic countries can continue to use them.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. madam president, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for a great deal of work. at the same time, however, i must say that it is deeply regrettable that this revision does not mean the introduction of a mandatory lobby register. the exclusion of lobbyists from a mandatory register means that citizens are effectively deprived of the opportunity to monitor which interests have been taken into account in the design of eu legislation. that raises at least three problems: firstly, it means that special interests thrive best in the eu. secondly, there is no such thing as a long way from closure to corruption. corruption is of course illegal, but transparency is the best tool to ensure that corruption does not occur. and thirdly, we cannot get a clear picture of how much money is needed to be heard. for example, the corporate europe observatory has published a report showing that the financial industry employs 1700 lobbyists and spends over 120 million euros a year on lobbying in the eu. this may explain why the financial system in the eu remains just as vulnerable to speculation as it was when the financial crisis hit. that is why i have also been involved in the work for a mandatory lobby register, and that is why we must stick to the commission's promise that there will be a mandatory lobby register, even if it will not be set up until the end of 2016.
the commission is not - mr president! - what is it? commissioners and ladies and gentlemen, i have looked forward to standing here today to speak and debate about product safety and market surveillance in europe. before i begin, however, i would like to thank my colleagues very much. i thank my colleagues in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection who have made a great effort in our work to ensure greater protection for european consumers. i would like to thank in particular mr baldassarre and mrs pietikäinen of the ppe group, with whom i have worked very closely. the work on product safety has been incredibly long in the making. in fact, we started work at the beginning of this parliamentary term when we in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection wanted to look more closely at how the rules worked. we found that the market control - that is, the market surveillance - was certainly not good enough. there were far too few products checked by the authorities and far too many products with defects and defects that were directly harmful to consumers. we therefore felt that european legislation in this field needed to be revised, so we recommended that the european commission review the general product safety directive and we also recommended new and better rules for market surveillance. fortunately, the commission chose to listen to us and, in the context of single market act i, the commission agreed that there was a need for revision in these areas. in parliament we have now been working to improve the rules to make it safer to be a consumer. what has been important to us and to the socialist group? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we must be sure that they are safe to use, and that is not possible today. we also think it is extremely important that we create a fair market for businesses. those who produce and sell goods in the internal market which are not in order should be able to be more easily caught and subject to a wide range of sanctions when they do not comply with the rules. we want a fairer internal market for businesses too. we believe that we are striking two birds with one stone by safeguarding consumers and at the same time ensuring proper conditions of competition for businesses. how have we tried to adapt this legislation? first of all, we agree that the requirements for manufacturers, importers and distributors must be strengthened. there must be stricter product safety requirements throughout the supply chain and clarity about the responsibilities of each link in the chain. it has also been important for us to ensure that the precautionary principle is applied in legislation. if there is any doubt about the safety of a product, it should be to the benefit of the consumer! it is also important to focus in particular on the vulnerable consumers in the european market. we have therefore insisted on defining and establishing the requirements to be applied to products which are particularly appealing to children. we also wanted to have a pan-european accident database which would give an overview of which products are really dangerous, i.e. which products cause people harm. a european accident database can help to make our efforts much more targeted. but the most debated issue throughout the process has of course been the question of 'made in'. should we make it compulsory to indicate on all products where they are produced? i'm all for that. i think it is useful for the individual consumer to know where things are produced and it promotes the safety of the products we have on the market. the chinese authorities have confirmed to me that they would be able to track dangerous goods more easily if it could be proved that they were produced in china. the reason why we have not yet finished our legislation - and we are only at the first reading - is that we have not been able to find a common solution to the question of 'made in' and the council of ministers has not wanted to take responsibility in this respect. i hope, however, that we shall have a good debate on the report today. it contains many good elements and i am absolutely convinced that this effort will make it safer to be a consumer in the internal market! thank you!
the commission is not - mr president! - what is it? i would like to thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for a very good debate we had this morning on the product safety regulation and the market surveillance regulation. we have a responsibility to ensure a proper and safe internal market for consumers and businesses alike. despite our differences in this parliament, we have succeeded in bridging the gaps and finding solutions - solutions that benefit consumers and solutions that benefit businesses. it is a clear signal to the citizens that we in the european parliament can indeed find workable solutions. i would like to say that the council has a huge problem and i would urge the council to come to a decision on this whole product safety package. we need action. we need to ensure that the single market is for the people. the citizens are not to be for the single market. with the european parliament's proposal we are taking a giant step towards ensuring a much better and safer internal market. thank you so much for the debate.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in denmark, the authorities and the trade union movement are fighting a battle against wage dumping. in construction sites, slaughterhouses, highways and air transport, workers are forced into unfair competition with one another. this is because companies are increasingly using creative solutions to circumvent local regulations on taxation, working hours, wages and working conditions. the most important thing for me is to give the authorities some concrete tools that they can use to bring the abused to their death. we social democrats have fought for the strongest possible rules. we have not got all our wishes in, but there should be no doubt that this is a step forward. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european company register. the requirements for chain liability are set at one level in the construction industry, and opportunities are provided for extending chain liability to all sectors and at several levels. this is something which the trade union movement in denmark, among other countries, can use in the fight against unfair competition, and that is why i intend to vote in favour of the proposal. thank you for speaking.
the commission is not - madam president! - what is it? what we are going to discuss today is part of one of europe's worst pollution problems. our nature is suffocating in plastic! 70 percent of marine pollution comes from plastic. to give a grim picture of this: in the seabird, which is called the mallemukken, plastic has been found in 95 percent of the animals. it's fatal to the animals, and it's fatal to the food chain. as far as plastic waste is concerned, we have a particular problem: plastic bags. 100 billion plastic bags are used in the eu every year. 100 billion. that is grotesque! of those 100 billion, 8 billion end up directly in the wild, where they pollute in all sorts of ways. parliament has long wanted to do something about this. we have also been asking the commission for a long time to come forward with a proposal to do something about plastic bags at least, and i also know that there are people in the commission who would like to do that. we have done extensive research. an impact assessment has been carried out, which has produced excellent results, showing the level of support among europeans for proper action; consultations have been held and assessments have been made of what can actually be done, and i would like to thank the commission for that work. the commission did not use the results. when we finally pressed the commission to come up with a proposal, it was a very vague proposal and it was - excuse me - a shame that there was no more. i hate to bother potočnik, but the whole proposal was a pity! but fortunately the commission had done a good job, which we could use when we were preparing our proposals, and so we were able to - i - make a report on the basis of the commission's proposals to my colleagues. first of all, i would like to thank my colleagues for their excellent cooperation. what we put to the vote tomorrow may well be familiar to us - even when we pass it on to the next parliament. we are asking for and we know that it is possible to reduce the number of plastic bags by 80%. that's 80 billion fewer plastic bags. we know from ireland that in a very short time a dramatic reduction can be achieved. it is actually easy to do if you put in the effort. we have now agreed that within five years we will achieve this binding reduction target of 80%. we have also agreed to do so by putting a price on the bags throughout the food sector. we also recommend that the method be used in the rest of the sector, but it is up to the countries themselves how they will achieve the binding target. thank you for that, too. do you realize that this is the first time that the main requirement of our waste directive, namely prevention, has been used? it's number one! this is what we have to do, and we haven't done it before! but this is the first time we have adopted a major reduction target. we can be proud of that. it is technically possible to reduce consumption. we are not going to ban plastic bags, but we are just going to make sure that they are used with care, and i can assure you that we will have the support of the europeans for this! we know this from many sources, and i think that those of you who, like myself, are going to campaign now will be glad that we are presenting a report here which shows that we are doing something very concrete and visible which is very important for reducing the nasty and really devastating plastic pollution! thank you, madam president!
the commission is not - madam president! - what is it? first of all, i would like to thank all my colleagues for a good debate. i am very pleased that many more people attended than i had expected, especially since almost all the speeches were very positive. i'd also like to thank potočnik. i think that the commissioner has a right to be concerned about the situation in the member states. i think that is thoughtful, and it is usually the ecr that does not want to see much action! we were also concerned that the commission's proposal was primarily a friendly recommendation. i think it is important that we have clear objectives here and we expressly say in our proposal that the various countries must contribute as much as they are able to from within their own system. it should be stressed, however, that there are many low-hanging fruit. in those countries where almost nothing has been done, results can be achieved very quickly by using the very mechanism which the commission's own study shows to be the most effective, namely price fixing. if they do, it could go very fast. i really hope that we will get together to make a clear statement and not just kind recommendations, although i understand that the commission is taking this very seriously. as regards biodegradable bags, we are explicitly saying that much better measurement methods are needed. the bags shall be genuinely biodegradable, including in marine composting and not only in industrial composting. i am aware that it will be difficult to get the bags to be recycled, but it is not recycling that we are looking for in the case of plastic bags. they're not recyclable. so it is simply a matter of getting rid of these bags. thank you again for the debate. there are a lot of things i want to talk about. i'm clearly not allowed to, but i have to accept that. thank you, sir.
the commission is not - mr president! - what is it? in short, it is a completely unjustified accusation that we have imposed tougher working conditions! we have set a very tight deadline, everything has been met. the fact that the other committee could not come together to respect our deadlines should not, therefore, destroy this parliament's opportunity to send an excellent signal to our citizens that we are finally going to do something about a really pressing pollution problem - so thank you for the rest of parliament's support!
in writing. - we, the danish social democrats in the european parliament, have today voted on the food control regulation. we are in favour of stricter and more uniform rules on food control for all producers throughout the eu. we are convinced that danish companies will benefit from stricter and stricter requirements for independence and more uniform and better controls for food producers throughout the eu. it will also increase consumer confidence in european food. the question of fees has been a lot of talk. we're all here for the same rules. however, we are not sure what the right solution is. that is why we have chosen not to vote on some of the concrete, technical solutions, but we have supported the idea of uniform rules for all eu countries. we hope that the negotiations between the european parliament and the council of ministers will lead to a workable solution for all, including danish companies.
the commission is not - mr president, thank you for your comments. what i am about to say will, in the long run, reflect what mr lamassoure has explained. i would like to begin by saying that i too wish my co-rapporteur, mr dehaene, well for his illness. he has made a great effort in the work on own resources and the report before us reflects that effort to a large extent. but the package of regulations we have before us today is of a rather technical nature - three pieces of legislation, the own resources decision, the implementing regulation and the regulation on the provision of the gross national product contribution. it sounds heavy, and it is, in a way. these texts are merely the expression of the agreement on the seven-year financial framework which we reached with the council in a political agreement last june, and for own resources it is the solution which the eu heads of state agreed on on 7 and 8 february last year, and it is not a fair agreement! it contains rebates and rebates on rebates - an opaque system which, as mr lamassoure has explained, is grossly unfair, with rich countries sometimes paying a lower rate of tax than poor countries. a majority in this house would have wanted a showdown with that system. it did not succeed this time, and let us hope that greater success will be achieved in the coming years on the basis of the working party on new own resources, led by mr monti, and that he will succeed in bringing forward a result for the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework in 2016, so that we can have a simpler and more transparent system. i also think it is important that we stress that we are not necessarily asking for more money from parliament, but that the collection is being done in a fair way and that it is understandable what is going on. one of the problems is that this system has developed from a mindset where each country is thinking about what it narrowly gets back from the eu budget rather than looking at which spending on the eu budget makes sense for the community and creates greater value at the common level. parliament has little influence on own resources. we can give our opinion on the specific legislation for the next seven years and we can give our assent to the implementing regulation. this is where we have the greatest influence on the implementing regulation. the committee on budgets has therefore decided to support the proposals in question, given the situation as it is. in the opinion on the implementing rules, however, we have stressed the criticism of the present system and the expectations we have of the work of the working party on new own resources. the commission's 2011 proposal for the reform of own resources from vat and financial transaction tax never got off the ground, and i am not a supporter of a financial transaction tax myself, so i have to cry dry tears over it. the proposal for new own resources from vat was so incomprehensible that it was almost impossible to explain. it needs to be done better! we must prepare better how we can create own resources which are meaningful, which are linked to the internal market and where it is natural that this is the way we build the system. there is one last little technical point i would like to mention: the council decided that the provisions on the calculation of gross national product revenue should be included in the own resources decision and not in the implementing provisions. and our legal service says that the natural thing would have been that they were included in the implementing regulations. and why do i feel there is a need to mention this? it is obvious that if it were to be included in the implementing provisions, we in parliament would have more influence on how it would look. and, dear friends, there is no one in the national parliaments who is interested in this system and who wants to criticise it; it is up to us to check that the system is sound. that is why i hope that it will happen in the future. i would welcome the use of the provisions of the lisbon treaty on the implementing regulation and i support the existence of this regulation, but we would like to see the gnp contribution involved. in conclusion, i would recommend that parliament approve the draft text proposed by the council.
the commission is not - mr president! - what is it? mr lewandowski mentioned that i'm quitting, and so am i! this is my last speech in this chamber, so it is actually quite moving! and i have felt, in working on the budget, that i was part of a 'dream team'. because what happens in parliament when we work on the budget is that we have to find each other - we have to find a compromise - and along the way you, mr lewandowski, have also been part of this 'dream team'. they have been in parliament, but we have also had to work together late at night to get results on the budget. i would also like to thank all my colleagues for the cooperation we have had over the years, and especially over the last five years, when we have been negotiating multiannual budgetary frameworks, which has been difficult and where one might ask oneself: 'what did we actually get out of it? i think it is very important that we pass on some arguments to those who will come after us. the greek presidency has sounded positive when it has spoken of a reform of own resources, and i have also noticed that a majority of the eu member states would like such a reform. the problem is that it has to be done by unanimity, so it takes more than just the usual persuasive skills to get everyone on board and find a solution that holds. and it is necessary. mr lamassoure has just mentioned that we are in a situation where we simply lack the money to finance the promises that have been made; there are uncovered cheques written and we will see that during the summer. after us comes the storm; after us comes the problems, because we have a lot of unpaid bills! and then many countries will say: 'what a surprise; we did not know! are we now going to find more money in our state budgets? this is a scandal! but they've created the problem themselves by not ensuring that we have a system that's coherent. that is why it is so important that this group, led by mr monti, should come forward with proposals for a more sustainable system in the future.
in writing. - we, the danish social democrats in the european parliament, have today abstained from voting on the final vote on honey. the reason for this is that it is a very complex issue. we are fighting and have always fought for good and useful food labelling and we know that many consumers are concerned about the use of gmos. as we understand it, the final agreement does not allow for this kind of labelling. we are disappointed. however, we will not vote against the agreement, as we recognize that there is a final agreement and that the member states have also adopted this. in denmark we have no problems, since we do not use gmos except in certain closed trials. we had only hoped that the council of ministers and the european parliament would have found a compromise in the negotiations which would have provided both clarity of rules and the possibility of a satisfactory gmo labelling, whereby honey producers living close to fields with gmo crops would have to indicate this on the honey.
for the ecr group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i can only repeat the words of praise of my colleague to you. it's been a pleasure. i'm in the same situation as your colleague. i thank you for your efforts and hope that you will continue along the same path. yes, we're acquiring new electronic products like never before. many of our european homes are full of mobile phones, computers, vacuum cleaners, flat-panel displays and so on. but what do we do with the used models? in fact, up to 75% of the eu's electronic waste is not known where it ends up. but we know that we produce up to 50 million tons of electronic waste worldwide every year, and we know that only one in ten cell phones ends up in recycling. i think that's thoughtful. unfortunately, and all too often, our waste, despite all the good intentions, ends up in illegal landfills in countries like ghana, india and china, where poor children dismantle the equipment and burn the plastic material to get at metals like gold, silver and copper, which can be recycled and sold. it is also true that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it is time we took full responsibility for where our hazardous waste ends up. i would therefore like to see ports controlled sufficiently to stop the illegal transport. we are not only responsible for what we do, but we are also responsible for what we don't do! and we cannot continue to turn a blind eye when the talk is about the treatment of our own waste. the cost of collecting and treating waste does not disappear by exporting it to developing countries. on the contrary! the waste is doing even more damage than if we took care of it ourselves. i have just returned from guinea-bissau and i know what the nature of waste looks like in those countries. i therefore recommend that we vote in favour of this report, for the sake of all of us, including the children of ghana.
for the edf group. mr president, of course what is happening in pakistan is important and of course it is disturbing to see the violations that several colleagues have mentioned here. but that is not news! the question is: what can we in the european parliament do about it? is this not something that should be done in the council of ministers? we are not a parliament of elected governments - we are a parliament of a commission which has shown itself completely impotent over the last five years to deal with the many crises around the world, most recently in ukraine, but certainly also further afield! the best thing we can do in relation to pakistan is to call on the national governments to take action instead of continuing to have blind faith that a totally incompetent commissioner is going to solve the problems we are experiencing in pakistan! no, i am referring to national democracy, to representative governments and to the responsibilities that belong to the nation state, and this should therefore be a matter for our 28 member states rather than for us standing here and speaking in front of an empty hall!
blue-card answer to bernd posselt. comparing our national governments to what catherine ashton has done in the last five years must be the gravest insult you can possibly give to a national government, when there is broad agreement across all parties that the eeas in the years it has been in operation has not been in operation. you must know that national governments have worked and delivered results in a row - not just for five years, but for centuries - whereas since we have had a european external action service, there has been nothing but chaos and fraud with money and i don't know what! you should have looked into the matter before you criticized the government, which actually has more legitimacy than both you and catherine ashton have.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. mr president, the elections of 25 may were a major defeat for the established euro-parties and their austerity policy. today, parliament will then welcome lithuania into the euro. and it is clear: each country has the right to decide for itself whether it wants to join the euro. but there are a couple of big problems with this case: firstly, lithuania has not had a referendum. it is a major problem that the lithuanian people have not been allowed to decide whether they want to join the euro. a survey of the purchase shows that there is a majority against the euro in lithuania. secondly, the path to the euro has been hard on the population. extreme cuts have been made in their welfare and greater inequality has been created in society. it is therefore not surprising that the people do not want the euro, and it is also a huge problem that you do not listen. that is precisely what makes people vote for the far right. it's not okay! we must stand with the people and we must fight against these monstrous cuts.
i have to say, madam president, there has been a lot of good things said today about youth unemployment. thank you for that! but, ladies and gentlemen, that is not enough! first of all, we have to be honest. the youth guarantee, as it stands today, has been a failure. secondly, there is a serious risk that it will be misused to pressure labour conditions and to provide cheap labour. thirdly, it fails to address the fundamental problem, namely the eu's austerity policy, which is creating even more unemployment among young people. the eu's austerity policy means, for example, the dismissal of public servants and higher retirement ages. this is creating more unemployment among young people. this is, of course, why we are proposing a radical change in eu policy. we demand an end to the eu's austerity policy, while recognising that labour markets vary widely across the eu. the solution is to allow the member states to find their own solutions - without forcing uniformity. it must be possible to make public investments in, for example, education and health, as these can create more jobs, and it must be possible to switch jobs so that some can continue training while others are working. we have many proposals, but it requires a new course. it requires that we recognize that the old way is wrong and that we dare to do something different. let's start the new course today!
in writing. - unemployment, and in particular youth unemployment, is one of the most serious challenges facing europe. it is essential that we get on with growth and investment which can provide more than 25 million unemployed europeans with good and lasting employment under good conditions and at a fair wage. the fight against unemployment is and will remain a social democratic quirk. i myself have pointed to the potential of improving the eib's lending capacity, creating green jobs through more ambitious climate and energy targets and the need for a strengthened youth guarantee. however, this vote is not about unemployment or youth unemployment, but specifically about lithuania's adoption of the euro. that is why the amendment by the verts/ale group does not belong in this specific text and i have therefore voted against the amendment. i will work for a real fight against unemployment in europe and not just vote for empty speeches in reports which have no impact on the fight against unemployment.
blue-card question. – just to ask, victor, why are none of the figures included in your resolution? why do you not mention the huge numbers of civilians killed on the gaza side, with one-third at least children? is it because you do not think there is an imbalance here? do you think these are equal partners? to me, not having these figures in the resolution is very cynical. you did not accept them from our resolution and i think it is important to show that we are not dealing with equal partners in a war here, we are dealing with an enormously strong occupying military power, and a besieged civilian population.
i have to say, madam president, it is now clear, after hearing several speakers, that the joint resolution of the major groups is quite alarmingly cynical. where can you escape to in gaza? nowhere! we must ask ourselves what the occupying power is actually able to achieve by these murders and destruction. do you believe that the status quo can be restored? if that's the only promise to the palestinians, it's impossible. the status quo does not exist. the siege of gaza cannot continue, nor can the occupation of the west bank and east jerusalem, and a democratic israel cannot survive as an apartheid state. we need to come up with more than a hopeless ceasefire proposal. it must be accompanied by a promise to initiate a just peace. there is now only one major actor that can intervene and prevent the death of the two-state solution, and that is the european union. the united states has given up, israel has not delivered at all, and has also used this so-called peace process to confiscate land, build settlements and tighten the grip on the palestinians. but we can! we can take the eu's own legislation seriously by demanding that israel live up to its part of the partnership agreement by respecting human rights, i.e. ending the occupation. the eu should now try to live up to the great honour of receiving the nobel peace prize. it's not just a gift, it's also a task. our credibility is simply at stake!
blue-card question. – i just want to ask whether you know of the goldstone report, produced after the ‘operation cast lead’ war, because it is clear that there is no proof of these allegations of the use of human shields. there is no proof. the allegations come from the israeli media, and we know that media are highly controlled in wartime. secondly, i want to ask whether you know how gaza looks. could you imagine any place to flee to if you had to flee? this morning they warned a hospital, and then an hour later they bombed a hospital.
in writing. - while i support the substance of the principle of non-discrimination in the labour market, i voted against this recommendation in protest at the undemocratic process which has been around the agreement without any substantive debate either in the committees or in the plenary. an agreement of 2 000 pages cannot be properly dealt with by an urgent procedure. an agreement on the root causes of the current eu-ukraine-russia conflict should not be rushed through without proper political debate and consideration.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to begin by thanking the outgoing commission, commissioner barnier and commissioner kroos for the great work done in recent years and for all the progress made - indeed, made - in the digital field. at the same time, i would like to draw attention to some of the challenges that have also been outlined in this discussion so far, and to the challenges that we must take very seriously if we are to realise the vision of a genuine digital single market. the benefits of a digital single market are great. this is something that citizens feel very directly and an example of an area where strong european cooperation makes an important difference. but the challenges are many. overall, we must ensure uniform and fair rules throughout the eu. there must be greater coherence between where digital services are consumed and their taxation. the commission must ensure that member states implement the rules in a uniform way, because digital knows no borders. if we do not have rules within the eu that companies outside the eu must also comply with, then companies will look for the loosest rules, and especially the weakest enforcement of the rules. europeans must be able to feel safe online. we need to get a new data protection regulation through. it must give european companies the opportunity to compete, while at the same time giving consumers a sense of security. the debate on online surveillance following the snowden case shows with all the desirable clarity that we have not yet found our footing in the eu. we need open standards in software policy so that neither users nor companies are trapped in proprietary formats. we need interoperability so that citizens can take their data with them unhindered when the data is in the cloud. a common european e-label may be needed to boost cross-border trade and, of course, we must continue the fight against roaming in telecommunications. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union. we look forward to good and constructive cooperation, including with the new commission. thank you, sir.
mr. chairman, please. this debate shows that we have to do something if the greed and cynicism of the pharmaceutical industry is completely unbounded. and we can do something! i think the commission is aware that up to 50% of the cost of research and development is paid by the public, and then we let industry pillage us. that's exactly where we need to go now. of course, we must not transfer the pharmaceutical industry to the directorate-general for enterprise policy. that is a very, very cynical idea. but we also have to look at the whole way this is woven together. we plunder countries, we let people die, and we can respond. what is lacking here is a little bit of insight and some political will. as economist mariana mazzucato said, "with this system, we have socialized the risks and privatized the profits". so we should do the opposite.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the ebola epidemic is a global challenge. it is therefore also very good to see that both the european commission and the eu member states have finally started to take this seriously, have started to act. it's about time. but i have two appeals. they apply to the commission as well as to the member states. the first is: solve the problem of being able to evacuate health workers back to europe now, because that is the only way we can get more health workers to go and help. the second is: i hope we can agree that the money we send is not taken from traditional development aid - that is, that it is new money we are using. we need this, because otherwise we simply risk not being able to help the countries concerned to build their health systems in the long term. we need to help massively. help is on the way, but we need to do the right thing. i hope that together we can coordinate this so that we can solve this serious challenge.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i think this debate and this resolution are some of the most discouraging things we have ever been through. after the terrible war, we could have hoped that europe - the eu - would now come together to try to play a role and use the powers we actually have. it was, after all, good that the council said that we could not go back to the status quo. what happens then? i didn't say anything! we're getting almost nothing. we get a resolution that is nothing. the status quo is that we cannot go back to the status quo in gaza, as if it was just a matter of easing the siege a little bit. i really believe that this is the chance we have to talk further with some credibility about a two-state solution. i have done so for all these years and i have fought for it, but now i cannot see how i can speak with any honesty to my partners in palestine and in israel, the peace forces in israel, and say anything that sounds credible when they see that the eu, even in this terrible situation where the united states has given up - has clearly given up - is putting all the cards down, pulling on its shoulders, continuing to pay - we are payers not players - we are not here to do anything. i think we have to change the language now and speak clearly and honestly and say: okay, there is no possibility of a two-state solution. now we must fight for a democratic one-state solution, but i fear that this will be a disastrous situation.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i think the commission and mr borg can hear that we are all rather in agreement that we are not satisfied with the efforts made by the commission. we also here in parliament are in broad agreement about what needs to be done, including the need not to turn our backs on west africa and not to abandon west africa, but on the contrary to step up our efforts there too. i would add that the good example of nigeria, and the fact that it is possible, has also been possible in the democratic republic of congo, where there are indeed crises and wars, and where they have been able to contain them because they were more skilled - more skilled than we have apparently been! so i think it is very important to listen to the ngos and of course to doctors without borders, but also to others, and at least also to send a very clear signal that the people who go and help always have the possibility of coming back. i think that one of the most frightening things we have heard is that our own auxiliaries are also being shut out. but listen, dear commissioner, we know what to do and i hope we get a good answer.
mr president, i would like to thank you. president juncker wants to make the eu the world leader in renewable energy and he has written in black and white that a binding 30% target for energy efficiency is the minimum if we are to maintain our credibility. at the same time, we see that investment is falling in renewable energy: 20% worldwide over the last two years, 55% in germany and 75% in italy alone. but excuse me: in that context, we are not and will not be the world leader in renewable energy and energy efficiency. we need binding national, ambitious targets in the fight against climate change, and the european parliament has shown the way. we need at least 40% in co2 reduction, 40% in energy efficiency and 30% in renewable energy. we know we can save money and become more competitive; we know we can create jobs, and we know we can become independent of russian gas and middle eastern oil if we raise our climate ambitions. so, dear governments, when you meet on thursday and friday, you must show that europe is not just the front runner in the fight against climate change, but is ambitious on behalf of us all.
mr president, i would like to thank you. europe has just been through a huge crisis, many european countries have had to cut their budgets quite drastically. yet we are here today, dealing with a budget proposal where a majority in this parliament wants to continue spending, continue spending money that is not there because we think we are better at spending the money than the nation states that find it for us. this is simply not acceptable! i would therefore like to appeal to my colleagues on behalf of the ecr group to maintain, together with the council, the agreed budgetary ceiling as proposed by the council, so that we can together get europe out of the crisis and on to a better path. the way out of this crisis is not to continue to propose money for more and more projects, which often end up in too much waste and excess. the way out is to take the spoon in the other hand, to take ourselves seriously as a parliament and to take on the task of saving the budget and not spending more on ourselves.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we recognise that in many of his speeches and speeches the president of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, has done a great deal to accommodate the sceptical parties in parliament and to stress the need for a smaller europe and less bureaucracy, but unfortunately we do not see these intentions reflected sufficiently in the mission statement and composition of the new commission. in the elections in may, the european people sent a strong message of demand for change, demand for a much more decentralised and easier europe. but where do we see this reflected in the distribution of new portfolios and work plans in the new commission? the only thing we see is new steps in a federal direction, whether we are talking about the new banking union or about the new centralisation of the countries' competence in economic policy, the labour market or asylum policy. that is why we, as the danish people's party, must vote against the new commission.
in writing. - i voted for the juncker commission. would i have chosen the same 27 commissioners if i had the freedom to choose from all the shelves? no, i'm not going. if that were the case, there would have been more radical commissioners and even higher ambitions in the green area. but instead of taking the no-hat approach, i'm going to work really hard to get real results. our job must be to keep the commission on its promises and to work hard for concrete results. in the radical left and alde, we cooperate with those who want to. because only by working together can we have real impact and actually make a difference on the climate. there are compromises to be made, and we may not get everything we want. but the best must never be the enemy of the good. the best place to do that is in the engine room. not on the sidelines.
in writing. - we are categorically against the use of eu funds for the relocation of jobs, against support for tobacco production and against any form of support for long journeys of live animals which cause suffering to the animals. we are in favour of greater transparency in the union's spending and the use of the european parliament's money, and of an increased level of investment in europe for the benefit of growth and jobs in all member states. that is why we are actively fighting for these issues in our respective committees and for this to be included in relevant legislative texts. on the other hand, we are clearly against the empty talk, the increased bureaucracy and the ineffective measures which the proposals of the two extreme groups in parliament unfortunately express. many of the proposals from this house do not belong in a vote on the budget and will have no effect outside the walls of this house. that is why we have voted against these amendments from beginning to end. finally, we recognize that the european parliament's proposals are good and progressive in their intention to support initiatives to create growth and jobs and the necessary research and development. overall, however, we believe that the eu must show economic responsibility at this time and, as far as possible, give priority to these efforts within existing frameworks. we shall therefore abstain from voting in favour of the budget.
in writing. - we are categorically against the use of eu funds for the relocation of jobs, against support for tobacco production and against any form of support for long journeys of live animals which cause suffering to the animals. we are in favour of greater transparency in the union's spending and the use of the european parliament's money, and of an increased level of investment in europe for the benefit of growth and jobs in all member states. that is why we are actively fighting for these issues in our respective committees and for this to be included in relevant legislative texts. on the other hand, we are clearly against the empty talk, the increased bureaucracy and the ineffective measures which the proposals of the two extreme groups in parliament unfortunately express. many of the proposals from this house do not belong in a vote on the budget and will have no effect outside the walls of this house. that is why we have voted against these amendments from beginning to end. finally, we recognize that the european parliament's proposals are good and progressive in their intention to support initiatives to create growth and jobs and the necessary research and development. overall, however, we believe that the eu must show economic responsibility at this time and, as far as possible, give priority to these efforts within existing frameworks. we shall therefore abstain from voting in favour of the budget.
in writing. - i voted for us to call on the council to stop having more than one seat for parliament. today the eu is spending €114 million (about $650 million) to move members of the european parliament to strasbourg. in addition, the traveling circus means an extra 20,000 tons of co2 emissions! it is simply not right to waste taxpayers' money and damage the environment in this way. it has to stop, and i'm gonna do everything i can to stop this travelling circus. but this requires the agreement of the member states, and france and luxembourg in particular are determined to keep strasbourg. that's too bad.
in writing. - i am categorically against the use of eu funds for the relocation of jobs, against support for tobacco production and against any form of support for long journeys of live animals which cause suffering to the animals. i am in favour of greater transparency in the union's spending and the use of parliament's money, and of an increased level of investment in europe for the benefit of growth and jobs in all member states. that is why i am actively campaigning for these issues in my committees and for this to be included in relevant legislative texts. i am also against increased bureaucracy and ineffective measures. some of the proposals put forward are bureaucratic or ineffective. many of the proposals do not belong in a vote on the budget and will have no effect outside the walls of this parliament. that is why i have voted against proposals which may sound good on the surface. finally, i acknowledge that the european parliament's proposal contains good and progressive ideas on supporting initiatives to create growth and jobs and the necessary research and development. overall, however, i believe that the eu must show financial responsibility at this time and, as far as possible, give priority to these efforts within existing frameworks. i shall therefore abstain from voting in favour of the budget.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the fundamentalist islamists of the islamic state pose a huge threat! not just for the people who are so unfortunate to be trapped in the terrible situation that is in iraq and syria, but also in europe. from denmark alone, it is estimated that over 100 islamists have gone to syria to fight for this terrorist organization, which is behind terrible crimes. what can we expect when these people want to return to europe in one way or another? what i fear we may be facing is a major terrorist threat that could strike us all. we don't know when, but the potential is there. that's why it's super important that we have control over who comes into our countries. unfortunately, the external border controls which were supposed to secure schengen have collapsed. we see italy, which for the most part does not even register the illegal immigrants entering the country. and that is why we must now, until the threat from is is defeated, demand that national states be allowed to carry out border controls so that we have an effective weapon against terrorism.
i have to say, madam president, i am afraid that the operation we have been discussing for some time in this house is simply a useless symptomatic treatment. we can already see flyers being distributed in these illegal migrant communities warning against the operation. and that is quite understandable, because it seems, above all, that the operation is designed as a somewhat disguised attempt by the member states to deal with the challenge that illegal migration has created in europe. what should have been done was to have effective border controls, an orderly migration policy, a refugee policy which took care to help as much as possible with the resources available, that is to say, to help people in the surrounding areas, but now they are turning to this because they have no other tools left in the toolbox. i think the best and most effective way is to reinstate national border controls instead of this kind of policy pursuit until external border controls may one day work, and that is what i am calling on this house to do today.
mr president, i would like to thank you. for once, it is a pleasure to be here in the chamber and to speak about openness and transparency! because when it comes to the other eu institutions, this parliament can clearly find a way to make demands, to be tough and to demand action now. and i am happy about that and i support the efforts of my colleagues to get the council to present the information as it should. i just think that we need to be a little more thorough in our approach to openness and transparency. that is why, as a member of a group which is in favour of a fundamental reform of the way we deal with the european union, i will fight for the fact that we will also remember transparency and openness when it comes to central lobbying registers, when it comes to ensuring that there is dissent, for example, at the european court of justice, and when it comes to ensuring greater openness about the votes in this parliament. but it has been an uplifting experience to hear the few colleagues who are here today - there are only about ten of us left in the chamber - and i will keep you informed of these things when we come to parliament itself. when you point a finger at others, five of them will point back at you in this house!
i have to say, madam president, tax evasion, as we see it in luxembourg and in other eu countries, is a provocation! a provocation against ordinary, hardworking people who pay high taxes and in the crisis years have seen their wealth cut, while inequality has exploded in europe and the rich have become even richer, including through systematic tax evasion. it is a provocation and unfair competition to ordinary small businesses, which, incidentally, create 8 out of 10 jobs in europe. we need transparency. we need a new way of taxing companies so that they are taxed where their turnover and profits are. so we want some clear answers on country-by-country reporting, and we want a timetable: when is it going to happen? we want clear answers now! in addition, it would be good if the commission also looked at the problem in general in the eu - what is needed to get to the bottom of it and stop tax evasion, tax havens and tax thinking.
i have to say, madam president, tax evasion is a dirty business, and it's absolutely unsolidarist. it is a robbery of the community and of future generations' access to the welfare state. think of the amount of government cuts we could have avoided if only tax-cheating corporations had contributed to the community. we are already fighting for more transparency in the system, but we cannot accept a commission president who, during his time as finance minister and prime minister of luxembourg, has been at the forefront of providing clever tax concoctions to large companies. and yes, it is also about mr juncker. he has himself admitted this: he has the political responsibility! as prime minister, you have a political responsibility for what is happening. the conclusion is therefore also clear: juncker cannot be credibly placed at the head of a commission which is to fight tax evasion. it's much needed. therefore, he should be mature enough to take responsibility and leave on his own.
i have to say, madam president, unfortunately, it is no longer news that the court of auditors of the european union cannot approve the accounts. there are simply too many errors and shortcomings to meet the 2% threshold needed for the budget to be approved. since this is not news, i will now turn to two other matters of equal importance. firstly, we do not get any real eu added value from what is being spent in the union. it is a major problem that the union has a huge budget, but that there is no way of ensuring that the money spent could not have been spent in the national states. secondly, we have actually promised far more money from the eu than we know we have in the budget for the coming years. the two together constitute a huge bomb under the eu budget, and if we do not start taking this seriously in this house, we are facing a very difficult economic future. i hope my colleagues are responsible, and that is the message i want to send today.
mr president, i would like to thank you. hormone-disrupting drugs have become part of the daily life of ordinary people. a new danish study shows that no one is immune to the chemistry of hormones: male fertility, fetal brain damage, testicular cancer. the consequences are dramatic. in the eu we still lack clear criteria for endocrine disrupting substances so that we can take action. the commission has so far refrained from doing so for fear of affecting the chemical industry. this can't be right! i therefore strongly urge health commissioner andriukaitis to live up to the legal requirement of the eu's 7th environment action programme, namely to 'develop harmonised hazard-based criteria for the identification of endocrine disrupting substances'. it is time we protected the citizens and set the laws according to the science and not according to the cynical chemical industry lobby.
i have to say, madam president, there are now over 24 million unemployed in the european union. more than one in five young people are unemployed, and in some countries youth unemployment is over 50%. at the same time, the number of people who have a job but are still poor is increasing. it's rising because more and more people are being pressured to accept jobs they can't live on. yes, some people even have two jobs, but they still cannot afford the day's work. today, more than 122 million people in the eu are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. for particularly vulnerable groups such as the disabled, the poverty rate is 70% higher than the average. the gap between rich and poor is growing. in 2012, the top fifth earned five times as much as the bottom fifth. in other words, this is not a success story. the creation of jobs that people can live off and the fight against poverty require first and foremost a confrontation with the current policies of the european union. this requires a confrontation with the eu's austerity policy, with the eu's unilateral focus on competitiveness. it requires a stance focused on economic growth without acknowledging that the whole of society should benefit from growth. i need more balls in the soup. we need to put more and better jobs at the centre and we need to recognise that labour markets and welfare societies are very different in the eu countries. it is therefore not reasonable to assume that one solution will suit everyone. we owe it to the citizens to make room for individual member states to invest in jobs and welfare. it's needed.
in writing. - i was happy to vote in favour of the report on global development work after 2015. i particularly welcome the elements in the report which safeguard women's sexual and reproductive health and at the same time reinforce the principle that everyone should have the right to decide about their own body. i chose to vote in the blank on the reference to 'legally binding requirements' on csr and corporate social responsibility. it is of course important that the eu's development and trade policy is based on companies in third countries operating in a fair and transparent way. however, it is important to understand that each case is different and that it is therefore difficult to find a 'one size fits all' solution. at the same time, it is also important not to confuse fair trade conditions with the democratic right of developing countries to develop the model of society they want. we must therefore be very careful about pressuring companies into certain behaviour which in some cases does not lead to better development. of course, our development policy must, through sustainable growth and without harming the environment or reducing social security, ensure that both developing and donor countries benefit from cooperation.
in writing. we believe that all people should have adequate social security - especially the weakest in society. we believe that the eu can help to raise the awareness of all governments of the many positive aspects, including social convergence between member states, which are promoting adequate social protection for the most vulnerable members of society. however, we are of the clear conviction in principle that the commission should neither propose nor set a minimum basis for social security, as this matter is best handled at national level. we do not want to create a precedent for the commission to legislate on the danish welfare state, its benefits and rates. it must remain a purely national matter.
in writing. we believe that all people should have adequate social security - especially the weakest in society. we believe that the eu can help to raise the awareness of all governments of the many positive aspects, including social convergence between member states, which are promoting adequate social protection for the most vulnerable members of society. however, we are of the clear conviction in principle that the commission should neither propose nor set a minimum basis for social security, as this matter is best handled at national level. we do not want to create a precedent for the commission to legislate on the danish welfare state, its benefits and rates. it must remain a purely national matter.
mr president, i would like to thank you. after this decision, the eu will have a leading role at the lima conference in december and in reaching a global agreement on climate change in paris next year. i welcome the recent agreement at the october european council on the 2030 climate and energy policy. but for the eu to be credible, we must be fair. implementing these objectives is the key. the eu member states must contribute equally and fairly. if the eu is to lead the world in tackling climate change, it needs to share the burden fairly among its member states. we also need to increase investment in research and development because the eu's expenditure in this area is too low compared to the countries with which we will have to compete in the future. for the agreement to be effective, it must also be accepted by all countries, including china and the newly industrialized countries. if this does not happen, the eu risks losing its growth, its future prosperity and the growth package presented by juncker today will be wasted.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i love deadlines! i love the hissing sound they make when they fly past me! so said the english writer douglas adams. i always think of that quote when i think about the climate fight. we've set ourselves a series of deadlines. we have a 2°c target. we have a watered-down 2030 climate package. we seem to have settled on something happening before the paris summit next year. in short, with the current level of ambition, we can start preparing for the sound of the 2°c target to pass us by. the commission must act now! go to lima with a promise of action, concrete action, and ambition. i hope the eu gets our supply networks in order so that we can transport renewable energy across the eu. i hope that the juncker plan will be geared to green investment and that we will not just have an energy union, but that we will have a green energy union.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the situation in israel and palestine is deteriorating day by day and there is no indication that the israeli government wants peace. on the contrary! it is now proposing a firm apartheid law and more settlements are being built all the time, now at full speed in the palestinian east jerusalem as well. so far, neither the united states nor the european union have seriously tried to stop this dangerous madness, and now jerusalem is developing into a war zone. and it is not just because of the terrible violations of the muslim sanctuary of al-aqsa on the temple mount. the eu must and can act swiftly and properly. let us listen to the representatives of the 730 prominent israelis who are in strasbourg today to shout at us. they are urging us to recognize palestine. such recognition will give hope to the palestinians and prevent desperate violence. recognition is also an essential condition for negotiations between israel and palestine to be conducted on fair terms and thus to finally get under way. the recognition must be now! to make it conditional on peace negotiations is to give israel the veto, which is both stupid and very immoral: to put conditions on the occupied instead of the occupiers! where else in the world is the eu so unjust? nowhere, i hope. then stop here too! respect for human rights and the international legal order must prevail everywhere, and not least in a democracy, as i still consider israel to be. the so-called friends of israel in the conservative group succeeded in postponing the vote in this house until next month. but they are israel's worst friends. the true friends are those who help israel to survive with dignity. it presupposes a just two-state solution and ensures peace in israel with its neighbours, as the arab initiative has offered time and again, and it gives hope and a future to palestine. (the speaker agreed to answer a blue card question under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue-card answer. – if we do not create equal conditions so that two equal partners are negotiating, there is no chance of getting real negotiations. i cannot guarantee anything, but i can guarantee to you that, if you do not recognise palestine and give it a chance to act as a real partner, there will be no true negotiations, as we have seen from israel not delivering up to now.
blue card questions. what are you talking about? i would like to ask my swedish colleague if he is not aware that, for example, the un already in the late 1940s said that something had to be palestine; that we have spoken about palestine many times; and if he thinks that it is in accordance with international law and justice to impose conditions on the occupied instead of on the occupying power?
in writing. - i voted against the digital single market resolution. i did so because the decision called on the commission to split up companies that have both internet search engines and other activity. the consequence of this is that companies like google have to be split into two separate companies. i think that is an unwarranted interference by politicians in the way companies are run. the commission, and in particular margrethe vestager as commissioner for competition, must ensure that no one exploits a dominant position - not even on the internet. i am very sceptical of politicians who want to predict or decide how private companies should be run. business models vary from one company to another - especially on the internet - and it is extremely important that politicians interfere as little as possible in the operation of private companies. politicians have to solve the problems that people face every day. so until the commission has investigated whether there is really a problem with the way google is doing business, parliament should not overreact. it's about people - and it's about solving the problems that people have and are experiencing.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, everybody agrees that this is quite a delicate issue, and i think we need more time in order to negotiate the resolution compromises. therefore, on behalf of the ecr group, i would like to move that we extend the deadline to wednesday at 11.00 so that we can have the vote this week, but on thursday.
mr president, i would like to thank you. for too many years we have seen working conditions in the transport industry deteriorate. too many drivers are working in conditions that we cannot be familiar with, and nothing has been done to reverse this trend. unfair competition, social dumping and illegal cabotage also harm road safety in europe. european drivers all over europe are under pressure! you don't have to talk to a lot of drivers to confirm that. the same applies to the many employers who, fortunately, behave properly, but who cannot compete under these conditions. i am of course in favour of drawing up and adopting a list of serious infringements in the road transport sector, but illegal cabotage, social dumping and the resulting risk of lower road safety cannot and must not be ignored again. it has happened too many times already, and it has not worked! i hope the signal is taken seriously, because something has to be done now!
in writing. ‒ we generally support the support for redundant staff provided by the globalisation adjustment fund. however, we believe that the support from the globalisation fund should be given much more to active labour market measures aimed at getting redundant workers back to work. we do not believe that eu funds should be spent on passive support, but instead should be directed towards employment-promoting initiatives and projects such as the continuing training of the dismissed employees. that is why we cannot vote for this proposal.
in writing. ‒ we generally support the support for redundant staff provided by the globalisation adjustment fund. however, we believe that the support from the globalisation fund should be given much more to active labour market measures aimed at getting redundant workers back to work. we do not believe that eu funds should be spent on passive support, but instead should be directed towards employment-promoting initiatives and projects such as the continuing training of the dismissed employees. that is why we cannot vote for this proposal.
in writing. ‒ we generally support the support for redundant staff provided by the globalisation adjustment fund. however, we believe that the support from the globalisation fund should be given much more to active labour market measures aimed at getting redundant workers back to work. we do not believe that eu funds should be spent on passive support, but instead should be directed towards employment-promoting initiatives and projects such as the continuing training of the dismissed employees. that is why we cannot vote for this proposal.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. mr president, you in the commission want a new course. a course where we don't have to have more of the same, but instead listen to the citizens and make a real change. never before have i been so in agreement with the commission as on this issue. unfortunately, the consensus ends there too. instead of focusing on creating better conditions for our workers, the work programme talks about making it easier for companies at the expense of workers' rights and working conditions. but let me be clear: it is certainly not in the interests of workers if their rights are to be rolled back to make it easier for companies, as you in the commission propose. so let's make a real fresh start by putting citizens and our welfare communities at the centre, and let's start by burying the whole refit programme. it is not in the interests of the workers.
in writing. we are categorically against the use of eu funds for the relocation of jobs and stress that this is already illegal. we are against subsidies for tobacco production and we are against any form of support for long journeys of live animals which cause suffering to the animals. we are in favour of greater control over the union's expenditure and the use of money by the european parliament, and of an increased level of investment in europe which is beneficial for growth and jobs in all the member states. that is why we are actively fighting for these issues in our respective committees and for this to be included in relevant legislative texts. the danish social democrats in the european parliament have for years been actively working to strengthen control and fairness in the coverage of members' general expenses, etc. we also actively support a renewed and strengthened eu commitment to the middle east peace process and see the work of unrwa as an important part of this process. we therefore choose to support the budgetary compromise which has been reached after great efforts by the european parliament and the council, and are therefore obliged to vote against all the amendments to the budget itself, while recognizing that there are still major unresolved problems, not least with regard to the volume of unpaid bills.
in writing. we are categorically against the use of eu funds for the relocation of jobs and stress that this is already illegal we are against subsidies for tobacco production and we are against any form of support for long journeys of live animals which cause suffering to the animals. we are in favour of greater control over the union's expenditure and the use of money by the european parliament, and of an increased level of investment in europe which is beneficial for growth and jobs in all the member states. that is why we are actively fighting for these issues in our respective committees and for this to be included in relevant legislative texts. the danish social democrats in the european parliament have for years been actively working to strengthen control and fairness in the coverage of members' general expenses, etc. we also actively support a renewed and strengthened eu commitment to the middle east peace process and see the work of unrwa as an important part of this process. we therefore choose to support the budgetary compromise which has been reached after great efforts by the european parliament and the council, and are therefore obliged to vote against all the amendments to the budget itself, while recognizing that there are still major unresolved problems, not least with regard to the volume of unpaid bills.
in writing. we are categorically against the use of eu funds for the relocation of jobs and stress that this is already illegal. we are against subsidies for tobacco production and we are against any form of support for long journeys of live animals which cause suffering to the animals. we are in favour of greater control over the union's expenditure and the use of money by the european parliament, and of an increased level of investment in europe which is beneficial for growth and jobs in all the member states. that is why we are actively fighting for these issues in our respective committees and for this to be included in relevant legislative texts. the danish social democrats in the european parliament have for years been actively working to strengthen control and fairness in the coverage of members' general expenses, etc. we also actively support a renewed and strengthened eu commitment to the middle east peace process and see the work of unrwa as an important part of this process. we therefore choose to support the budgetary compromise which has been reached after great efforts by the european parliament and the council, and are therefore obliged to vote against all the amendments to the budget itself, while recognizing that there are still major unresolved problems, not least with regard to the volume of unpaid bills.
in writing. we support the budget that has been agreed, recognising the urgent need to get the eu budget adopted before the end of the year, otherwise a rigid and bureaucratic emergency budget would be activated. however, we remain of the view that the eu must show economic responsibility at this time and, as far as possible, give priority to these efforts within the existing framework. the danish social democrats in the european parliament have for years been actively working to strengthen control and fairness in the coverage of members' general expenses, etc. we do not agree with the specific wording, but we want to send a clear signal that current practice can and must be improved. we also actively support a renewed and strengthened eu commitment to the middle east peace process and see the work of unrwa as an important part of this process, but we will not fix an amount in a non-legislative text.
in writing. we support the budget that has been agreed, recognising the urgent need to get the eu budget adopted before the end of the year, otherwise a rigid and bureaucratic emergency budget would be activated. however, we remain of the view that the eu must show economic responsibility at this time and, as far as possible, give priority to these efforts within the existing framework. the danish social democrats in the european parliament have for years been actively working to strengthen control and fairness in the coverage of members' general expenses, etc. we do not agree with the specific wording, but we want to send a clear signal that current practice can and must be improved. we also actively support a renewed and strengthened eu commitment to the middle east peace process and see the work of unrwa as an important part of this process, but we will not fix an amount in a non-legislative text.
in writing. we support the budget that has been agreed, recognising the urgent need to get the eu budget adopted before the end of the year, otherwise a rigid and bureaucratic emergency budget would be activated. however, we remain of the view that the eu must show economic responsibility at this time and, as far as possible, give priority to these efforts within existing frameworks. the danish social democrats in the european parliament have for years been actively working to strengthen control and fairness in the coverage of members' general expenses, etc. we do not agree with the specific wording, but we want to send a clear signal that current practice can and must be improved. we also actively support a renewed and strengthened eu commitment to the middle east peace process and see the work of unrwa as an important part of this process, but we will not fix an amount in a non-legislative text.
in writing. the resolution is one-sided, for example mentioning only israeli deaths and not palestinian civilians killed by the idf!!. it does not explain the security of a future palestinian state and has no time horizon for recognition. however, it is important to support the resolution because for the first time we are separating peace negotiations and recognition of a palestinian state. it is important that a united european parliament gives its support to the two-state solution and clearly within the 67th frontier with jerusalem as its capital. the european parliament supports the momentum we are seeing, with more and more member states' parliaments calling for recognition from their governments and palestine submitting its application to the un. although i would like to see a clearer resolution, it is important at this time to show the member states that a very large majority in the european parliament supports unconditional recognition of palestine.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is worth reminding the turkish government of the old adage: you can fool part of the population, and you can fool the whole population some of the time, but you can never fool the whole population all the time! this should be borne in mind in ankara, which seems to believe that it can fool its own citizens, without any compromise or conscience, into believing that turkey can become a member of the european union, even though it does not want to meet the criteria and is behaving like a regular bully both externally and internally. you think you can fool the eu by pretending to be the so-called 'bridge to the middle east', but the truth is that for all the time that the eu has been negotiating with turkey, turkey has been moving in the exact opposite direction of what was intended. turkey is moving further and further away from the eu; turkey does not belong in the eu! that is why we must look at alternatives, stop the accession negotiations and focus on what is actually possible: free trade cooperation and joint technical cooperation in the fields of trade, the environment, exchange students, i don't know! but membership - it is obvious to everyone - is completely unrealistic!
